Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23761 -YU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.0 MILLION
(US$ 10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 27, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 27, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yugoslavian New Dinar
1 Dinar = US$0.0147
US$1 = 67.94 Dinar
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL      Adaptable Program Loan                      NGO      Non-Government Organization
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                 OECD     Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development
CCD      Common Coding System                        PCD      Project Concept Document
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment  PCU     Project Coordination Unit
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency   POM      Project Operational Manual
CPD      Continuous Professional Development         SA       Special Account
EIS      Education Information System                SAI      Supreme Audit Institutions
ESAS     Education Standards and Assessment Service  SOE      Statement of Expenditures
FMR      Financial Monitoring Reports                TA       Technical Assistance
FMS      Financial Management Specialist             TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
IAS      International Auditing Standards            UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
ICR      Implementation Completion Report            USAID    U.S. Agency for International Development
IDA      International Development Association       VET      Vocational Education and Training
LAN      Local Area Network                          WB       World Bank
MIS      Management Information System               WPA      Work Program Agreement
MOES     Ministry of Education and Sports
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:     James Socknat
Task Team Leader:     Jim Stevens



FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       17
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                               18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      18
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                         18
3. Technical                                                                        19
4. Institutional                                                                    19
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   23
2. Critical risks                                                                    24



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  26
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         26
2. Other                                                                           26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      56
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        57
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         74
Annex 11: Financial Management Assessment                                             76
MAP(S)
IBRD 31506



FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: March 27, 2002                             Team Leader: James A. Stevens
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: James A. Socknat
Project ID: P075189                              Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data                                     .
1 Loan      [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee      1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 20
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      1.46          0.71          2.17
IDA                                                          6.60           3.40         10.00
Total:                                                        8.06          4.11         12.17
Borrower: FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SPORTS
Department for International Cooperation
Address: 22-26 Nemanjina Street, 11000 Belgrade
Contact Person: Mrs. Tuede Kovac-Cerovic
Tel: 381 11 3616293           Fax: 381 11 3616 270          Email: tkovacs@yubc.net
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004      2005      2006 0
Annual     2.20       3.00      2.50       2.30
Cumulative     2.20      5.20       7.70     10.00
Project implementation period: June 2002-June 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD Fam RW  U. ZM



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
1. Building capacity and producing systematic information to help government promote effective
education reform.
2. Improving teaching and learning in schools and empowering local communities to take responsibility
for their schools.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Objective 1
1. Improved govemance and management of education in Serbia as indicated by defining the roles of
various levels/institutions and the introduction of various tools, systems and procedures (report
cards, EIS, school board and municipal manuals).
2. Monitoring of basic performance indicators by municipalities (baselines set during appraisal)
including per student spending, municipal financial commitment to education per student,
student/teacher ratios by language group, etc.
3. Use of funding formula to monitor system efficiency and equitable per student distribution of
public funding for education in Serbia.
4. Performance data on student achievement produced and made available to the public.
Objective 2
1. Improved ability of schools to design school development plans.
2. School Boards and parents more able to assist in defining school quality and providing support to
the principal and teaching staff.
3. Teachers more able and willing to be flexible and inventive in teaching methods.
4. Schools which have an improved physical environment and equipment.
5. Improved in-service training delivery capacity and utilization at the regional level.
6. Improved teacher/student satisfaction with school life on survey.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: TSS document number: 22090-YU Date of latest CAS discussion: May 8, 2001
CAS objective: improving the social well-being of the most vulnerable and building human
capacity. The Republic of Serbia Education Improvement Project invests directly in improving learning
and educational opportunity for children in Serbia through its School Fund. It also makes an indirect, long
term investment in building human capacity and protecting vulnerable groups through its focus on
re-structuring, developing information mechanisms, and improving management of the education system.
CAS objective: improving governance and building more effective institutions. The Republic of
Serbia Education Improvement Project is largely aimed at institution building and improving governance of
the education system.  Facilitating decentralization, improving information systems and measuring
performance in the education system will help focus attention on the equity and efficiency of public
resource use, as well as the quality of education being delivered in the classroom.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Restructuring and improving the public education system in Serbia has been identified by the new
government as a priority area for facilitating economic recovery and promoting economic competitiveness,
for creating a democratic society, and for re-integrating Serbia into the international community. In
response to these broad governmental objectives, the newly formed Department of Development and
International Cooperation in the Ministry of Education and Sports (MoES) has produced an education
reform strategy that has been presented to the Association and other donors (available upon request). The
strategy paper identifies the following principal sector issues:
Political and Institutional Framework: the system is characterized by an authoritarian,
command-and-control structure in terms of administration, personnel management, and finance, as well as
content and pedagogical issues, reflecting the politics of the previous regime.  Re-decentralization
(education in the Yugoslav republics had been decentralized to the municipal level in terms of
administration and finance prior to 1990) is a political agenda of the current government.
Education Funding: funding for education per student has been declining throughout the 1990s in
real terms and even as a percentage of GDP, while the share of GDP devoted to education -- about 3.5 per
cent -- is among the lowest in Europe. Teachers are poorly paid even relative to other civil servants (about
$33 per month equivalent, or about one dollar per day) and schools are starved for basic teaching
resources. Teacher motivation is, not unexpectedly, low. Low birth rates are creating teacher surpluses in
some areas, while private sector opportunities are creating teacher shortages in some subjects such as
English training and computer science. A refugee influx of Serbs from other former Yugoslav republics
and Kosovo, however, is offsetting demographic trends and further driving down spending per student as
budgets stagnate.
Educational Performance and Access: qualitative issues are clouded by a lack of information.
Educational quality is not systematically assessed and performance indicators are not used for policy
development, for resource allocation, or for international comparisons. The system is predominately supply
driven and little emphasis is placed on monitoring progress or measuring education outcomes. Pre-service
teacher training is oriented to traditional academic disciplines and little focus is given to pedagogical
methods or practice teaching. Through lack of funding, there is no formal system of in-service training,
apart from ad hoc efforts by donors and NGOs in which the MoES is only marginally involved. The
curniculum is highly prescribed and dense (requiring long lists of books at all levels), and instruction is
traditionally teacher-centered with little focus on student participation and critical analysis. Finally, the
system is not fully inclusive. The new government acknowledges that the needs of some minorities,
particularly the Roma population, are not being fully met.
Education Infrastructure: the network of schools is unevenly distributed across urban and rural
areas. 50 percent of primary schools, mostly in rural areas, serve fewer than 50 students, many in
multi-grade structures, while some urban schools serve several thousand students. While the cost of
maintaining the network of rural schools is acknowledged to be unsustainable, solutions aimed at increased
efficiency are complicated by the right to minority language education in Serbia -- Yugoslavia has, rather
ironically, been a leader in this area for 40 years -- as well as by the desire not to promote urbanization. 40
percent of primary pupils attend double shift schools, mostly in urban areas. As stated above, schools are
starved for basic education supplies and equipment, and the dilapidation due to old age of many schools
does not contribute to a conducive learning environment.
- 3 -



Secondary Vocations Education and Training (VET) and Higher Education: the new
government acknowledges that both secondary VET and higher education lack relevance in Serbia's
emerging market economy and that they both need to become more demand driven rather than centrally
directed. Occupationally-specific training programs in secondary will need to be replaced by broad-based
programs such as management, communications, languages, and computer science which provide young
people with flexible skills. In higher education, the focus will be on integrating accreditation with
European best practice and on adopting a European management model that allows universities to be
managed as institutions as opposed to lose associations of faculties. While the MoES supports university
restructuring, it is likely that vested political and institutional interests will delay rapid reform as in other
central and eastern European countries. Lastly, internal and external efficiency issues plague both
secondary VET and higher education. Secondary VET is highly expensive in terms of low student teacher
ratios and equipment needs, while many graduates proceed directly to unemployment or do not find work in
their specialized fields. The sustainability of higher education is seriously weakened by direct subsidization
of obsolete programs, the extremely high cost per graduate as students churn for years in the system, and
an inadequate and in-equitable fee structure.
The government's diagnosis above is consistent with and informed by the Bank's own sector work,
as well as that of sector work prepared by UNICEF and OECD. The reader is encouraged to request these
documents which are on file for a more detailed description and analysis of sector issues.
The Ministry's strategy document for education defines both strategic priorities, as well as specific
investment requirements. The Government's strategic priorities are as follows:
Decentralization: the government's efforts to redefine the roles of central, regional and local authorities
include:
*   encouraging and supporting school autonomy and school development;
* introducing new modes of participatory governance and management;
*   promoting professional responsibility instead of political obedience;
*   shifting the role of inspection from adrninistrative control to developmental and educational
support;
*   ensuring easy access to professional resources at local and regional level; and
*   strengthening the capacity of the central ministry to monitor system performance and measure
education outcomes.
New financing mechanisms and regulations: within the context of decentralization and fiscal devolution
for education, the government intends to pursue the following priorities:
*   review of Government policy in respect of salary structures in the public sector;
* review of possibilities for increasing local contribution to financing education provision;
* a feasibility analysis of the potential of financial decentralization for improving value for money
from existing budgets;
*   exploring the possibilities, mechanisms and procedures for increasing voluntary contributions to
schools;
*   developing financial mechanisms to support the introduction of career advancement structures in
the teaching profession;
*   examining the feasibility of new incentive systems to increase the efficiency of existing work
practices; and
*   considering the place of contracts and competitive tendering as a way of securing greater value for
money from existing budgets.
-4 -



Orientation to quality: the government will focus on the process of quality assurance and monitoring via:
*   cooperative approaches for developing a new curriculum framework through the participation of
the central administration, regional educational bodies and the teacher base, as well as expert and
professional teams;
*   ensuring compatibility with the educational standards of the EU;
*   developing a new textbook publishing policy;
*   introducing quality monitoring and assurance systems at the national and school levels; and
*   reducing the size of the existing curricula, creating more on-task time for developing skills and
values, developing new curricula and introducing modem educational contents and methods.
Professional Upgrading: To promote the full participation of teachers in the education reform, teacher
education and continuous professional development (CPD) and structures for career advancement in the
teaching profession will be pursued via:
*   fundamental changes of initial teacher training which equally requires time and systemic changes;
*   a participative model of CPD which enables teachers to become creators of their own professional
practice;
*   a system and structure of career advancement in the teaching profession;
*   a rational, functional and efficient system of financing CPD as one of the main foundations of and
incentives to transformation processes;
*   an easily accessible delivery system for CPD; and
*   a focus of initial teacher education and CPD on skills and values stated as national goals.
Creating favorable learning environments: the new govemrnent will foster policies that encourage school
autonomy and school integration into the local community via:
*   prevention of juvenile delinquency, tobacco, drug and alcohol abuse and addiction, prostitution and
other forms of social misbehavior;
*   integration of children from  marginalised, ethnical minority, economically, culturally and
educationally deprived social groups (e.g. Roma); dysfunctional and at-risk families (e.g. refugee,
dislocated, poor, incomplete), HIV infected;
*   fostering tolerance and appreciation of diversity, both in social and individual terms; and
*   development of ecological education
In addition, to these broad strategic priorities, the new government has identified vocational
education and training, higher education and pre-school education as specific reform areas within the
education system. In VET and higher education, the agenda is a rapid integration of these systems with
Westem European standards and accreditation procedures to promote Serbia's competitiveness within the
boarder European labor market. In pre-school education, priority is given to increasing access, promoting
more parental and community participation in the programs and enhancing the educational content of
programs that now tend to be more oriented toward child care.
More detailed action proposals for the strategic priorities and specific reform areas listed above are
available in the government's education strategy document, Creating Education Changes in Serbia.
The MoES's strategy was prepared by the Department of Development and International
Cooperation largely without external assistance. Its emphasis on governance and financial management
issues as a prerequisite to long term sustainable development in the education sector demonstrates an
understanding of the political and institutional dynamics and incentives that will drive the process of
education reform. The Ministry realizes that the current strategy is only the beginning of a process.
Additional information, analytical work, and, in particular, benchmarking of performance objectives is
- 5-



needed to further the process of education reform and it is one of the goals of the current project to provide
technical advice to help develop the govemment's capacity to refine its education strategy. The process of
benchmarking reform indicators has started during project preparation with the development of a data base
of municipal performance indicators such as spending per student (including municipal own-revenue
contributions) and student-teacher ratios by various levels and language groups.
While the govemment's reform strategy emphasizes govemance issues and sector development
outcomes, it also puts these medium to long term goals in the context of the basic sector inputs -- both
recurrent and capital investments - that will be needed to protect the educational strengths of the former
Yugoslav system and to stimulate quality improvement in the future. In addition to the need for technical
assistance, training and capacity building to support the above initiatives, the government's short term
sector investment program gives priority to salary support programs, emergency repairs and reconstruction
of its aging school infrastructure, and re-equipping of schools and training institutions (particularly
focusing on computers, intemet access, and information systems). Incentives for motivating a de-motivated
teaching force are a high priority for the MoES. Although investments in professional upgrading, better
school environments, and career advancement programs will help motivate teachers, the fact is that it will
be difficult to improve or even maintain the quality of Serbian education until teacher remuneration allows
a basic subsistence livelihood.
The Ministry recognizes that changing the legislative framework will be key to achieving effective
decentralization. In order to move quickly and take advantage of political support for decentralization, the
Ministry has prepared draft amendments to the education laws for pre-primary/primary and secondary
education which it intends to present for approval in the coming months, leaving a large scale overhaul of
education legislation as a medium term (3-5 year goal). The current drafts of the primary and secondary
amendments focus primarily on the creation and empowerment of school boards and parent associations,
and on modernizing the role of inspectors in the system. Both these issues are expected to be key elements
of a decentralization reform which serves to empower local decisions makers. In addition, the government
is currently considering a law on local self-govermment which will re-define responsibilities for managing
schools and education resources, as well as re-assign revenue to municipalities for various responsibilities
in education. The Bank has commented on both general education laws and the local self-govemment law.
The local self-government law is overly vague in terms of defining roles and responsibilities of various
levels, and in terms of what level of funding would be required to effectively carry out these
responsibilities. As responsibilities are not expected to be more clearly defined in the new law, the
Association will support a more precise definition of roles and responsibilities through the development of
manuals and administrative instructions for the sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Prior to 1989, the education system in the Yugoslav republics had represented a world leading
example of a decentralized education model in which local communities were assigned tax revenue for
education and given significant control over budget, expenditure and personnel management matters.
Curriculum content authority was decentralized to the Republics and, for a time, even to the autonomous
provinces (Vojvodina and Kosovo). However, the break up of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
in the early 1990s brought with it a more authoritarian and centralized approach to education in Serbia.
Provincial education institutions were closed down and substantial control over content, funding and
personnel management was integrated into the ministries of education at the republic level. This
re-centralization of education in Serbia and in other republics has been directly counter to a world trend in
recent years toward delegating authority over education management and funding to local communities and
promoting community and parental involvement in school affairs.
- 6 -



There is a wide consensus among education stakeholders in Serbia for a return to a largely
decentralized education model, particularly in terms of management and financing authority. However,
much of the current dialogue on the subject is driven by provincial demands for autonomy in terms of
education content, and little attention is being given to the impact of decentralization on quality, efficiency
and equity in education. Issues related to local revenue assignment for education, inter-governmental
authority and cost-sharing relationships, and the need for decentralized accountability mechanisms, such as
school boards, remain to be adequately addressed. At the central ministry level, a decentralized system will
require capacity building in monitoring and evaluation (including the standardized assessment of learning
outcomes) and the development of an information culture. The need for better infornation on system
performance is particularly key in the context of promoting a reform process and ensuring public
transparency and accountability in education.
While the government of Serbia currently has a well defined set of strategic priorities for
education, this prioritization represents only the beginning of a reform process that will be defined and
implemented concurrently over a period of many years. A process of information collection and
benchmarking is now underway in the MoES. One of the major goals of this project is to help the MoES
continue to develop both the capacity and the information with which to deepen and continue the reform
process, which - like all education reform - will be heavily politicized. The comparative advantage of the
Association's involvement would be to help focus the attention of all stakeholders in this political process
on the equity implications of reform, on the efficient use of scarce public resources, and on the quality of
education programs.
With the support of the MoES, a decision has been made to focus the Association's technical
advice and financial support on the decentralization reform effort, on capacity and information building
activities to support decentralization, and on a fund mechanism that will provide qualitative support
directly to schools. The project will not make a specific commitment to assisting central level authorities to
develop educational inputs (curriculum, teacher training, textbooks, school building or reconstruction, etc)
or re-structure education in priority sub-sectors such as VET, higher education, or preschool education (see
also section D. Rationale). The MoES endorsed this Association focus during project identification and
preparation, reflecting the importance authorities attach to strategy development, govemance and funding
reforms, and capacity development for sector management. The goals of the proposed project are limited to
govemance reform, capacity building and resource transfer. The project cannot, in itself, ensure the
success of the governments reform program. However, the support the project provides for benchmarking
the reform effort will be key to helping both the Association and the govemment evaluate reform progress,
and should also be used to allow the Association to consider further investments in the sector.
During project implementation, the project's strategic focus on the decentralization effort will
provide the Association with a vehicle for influencing how all educational inputs (not supported under the
project) are produced and funded, and on how priority sub-sectors (not supported under the project) are
managed, funded, evaluated and given priority in the system. In addition, the fund mechanism will provide
significant resources for teacher training, materials development, improving pedagogical methods, defining
local curricula priorities and, to a small extent, improving physical infrastructure and thereby the
educational environment. The MoES has identified other donor partners to provide support in specific
sub-sectors (see Rationale, Section 2). Both the Association and the MoES are giving high priority to
donor coordination and cooperation. It is not expected that Serbia will receive significant international
support for school reconstruction, and the Ministry has confirmed that it does not wish to devote IDA
funding to rehabilitation of facilities. Several bi-laterals are, however, making major investments in
re-equipping schools.
-7 -



The investments described in the following section support the creation of a decentralized
management structure and the creation of an information culture in the MoES. Policy advice and strategy
development for decentralization is being provided by the Association as part of project preparation and
appraisal, and will also be supported by the sector work on decentralization mentioned above. Project
funding, which will not be available until late spring 2002, will be focused on system design and capacity
building at central and local levels. Support for developing information systems and for creating a
standardized assessment capacity are both linked to creating the types of information, performance criteria
and quality benchmarks that a decentralized system needs to function effectively. Lastly, the School
Improvement Grants component has both a decentralization support element, as well as direct resource
transfer and quality enhancement objectives (see the section D. Rationale). In addition to demonstrating
responsiveness by allocating half of project funding to direct support to schools, the School Improvement
Grants component is consistent with a decentralized model in which the central level monitors system
performance and allocates funding, while schools define their own development interventions (with
outreach programs where needed) and manage centrally allocated funding. The School Improvement
Grants are expected to begin introducing the behavioral changes at the school level that decentralization
experience elsewhere has shown are necessary if school management and local communities are to become
accountable for school performance.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Following is a summary of project components. In all cases, if other donor support is identified to
support project components, the scale of these activities could be increased, or further IDA funding could
be added to the School Improvement Grants component, described below.
School Improvement Grants (US$ 5.66 million)
The objectives of the school grants component are to improve teaching and learning in schools and
to empower local communities to take responsibility for their schools. The school grants program will
finance small school improvement projects to be designed and implemented by schools and their
communities, as represented by school boards. About US$ 5.0 million in grant funding under the IDA
credit will be allocated to Serbia's 12 regions on a per student basis, and the remainder of funding under
the component (US$ 660,000) will support training, technical assistance, outreach and evaluation costs.
The size of the small grants will be based on a per student allocation within each region. An initial
maximum grant of $6,000 per school has been established, to be reviewed following a pilot phase. Grant
funding will be based on prioritized activities in school development plans which will be developed as a
prerequisite to applying for a grant. A draft description of the grant mechanism, the criteria for grant
allocation and the institutional arrangements for managing the grants are available in Annex 2.
During the project time frame, the MoES aims to provide grants to 650 basic schools (about 60%
of the total) and 50 general secondary schools (50% of secondary schools). A school is defined as an
admninistrative unit headed by a Director, not individual feeder or satellite schools. The grant funding
process will be competitive. A pilot phase of the project, funded by the Government of Switzerland, is
expected to be run during the 2001-2002 school year prior to an expanded main project beginning with the
2002-2003 school year.
-8 -



Funding will be allocated under the project for independent evaluations at mid-term and at the end
of the project. Fund application and reporting procedures will require the collection of standard base line
information on schools which will be made available to evaluators.
Standards and Assessment Development (TJS$ 2.15 million)
The objectives of this component are (1) to raise the focus on quality in Serbian education by
setting intemationally recognized standards, (2) to establish a modem and internationally-recognized
system for assessment and examinations, and (3) to establish and develop a sustainable Education
Standards and Assessment Service for Serbia (ESAS).
Under the project, a specialized technical unit for standards, assessment and examinations will be
established. Its legal status and degree of autonomy will need to be decided by the competent Serbian
authorities, but capacity building support can be provided by the project to a Service established within the
MoES prior to such institutional decisions. An acceptable level of independence from the Ministry's line
structure will be expected to ensure the Service's credibility as an objective evaluator of education quality.
The ESAS will be a professional unit, charged with production (design, pretesting, and production) of test
instruments; administration and logistics of assessments and examinations; statistical processing and
analysis of results; technical support for and training of teachers, school directors, examiners, and local
authority staff; research and development in modem educational measurement; and regular provision of
outcome reports to policy makers in the MoES, as well as to all education stakeholders.
The project will finance training and study visits for key specialist and administrative/logistical
ESAS staff; equipment, software, materials, books, etc. for the ESAS; support for developing and
piloting/field testing of standards-linked external assessment instruments at agreed levels in the education
system (for example at grades 4, 8 and 12 in core subjects); support for the national costs of
OECD/PISA-Plus; technical assistance to guide the activities listed above; and the recurrent costs of the
ESAS on a declining basis over three years. A detailed cost proposal has been included in the Project
Operational Manual (POM). An external assessment service would require recurrent costs to be
undertaken by the Government of Serbia in the amount of about US$ 300,000 per year. This amount
represents less than one tenth of a percent of current government spending on education in Serbia - a low
investment in the assessment function by international standards.
An Education Information System (US$ 2.66 million)
The objective of this component is to promote effective management of resources and monitoring
of performance in the MoES through improved information and financing systems. The project will
provide technical support to:
a. determine essential education data needs at the school level and education statistical information
needs at the municipality, regional and central levels;
b. develop the initial core set of computer software modules covering the basic data collection,
collation and report generation in schools and the aggregation of the same data at the municipality
and ministry levels;
c. strengthen the system platforms (hardware) of the municipalities and regional offices of the MoES;
d. develop benchmark standards for the development and implementation of future software modules;
e. train school directors, school secretaries, and municipality and ministry staff to effectively use the
tools of the initial set of EIS modules in terms of performance monitoring and decision making, as
well as manipulation of the new software; and
-9-



f. develop an analytical framework based on per pupil-based funding to be implemented by central
and potentially municipal funding authorities, potentially combined with block grant funding pilots
in select municipalities.
The development of the initial set of EIS modules will support the basic aggregate information
needs of schools, municipalities, regions and ministries and begin the process of information management
for effective resource use and policy formation. It is not expected that the component will produce
complete personnel or student data bases in which electronic files are created for each education employee
or student, although planning for more comprehensive data bases will be an outcome. In the interest of
transparency and public accountability, certain aggregate data are expected to be made available to the
public. This component will support the related goals (see Decentralization below) of developing greater
municipality and school autonomy and community participation within a decentralized govemance
education structure.
Education Decentralization (US$ 1.1 million)
The principal objective of the Education Decentralization component of the project is to strengthen
governance and management capacity in primary and secondary education. Strengthened capacity would
improve the overall performance of the existing system, and improve equity by reducing variance in
capacity across schools and municipalities. Strengthened capacity would also increase the probability that
future legal changes granting increased governance and management powers to schools, school boards, and
municipalities would be quickly implemented.
The specific objectives of this component are as follows: (a) to strengthen the capacity of
municipalities to assess the educational needs under their responsibility, especially infrastructure,
maintenance, and transportation, and to provide logistical and other support to schools located within the
municipality; (b) to improve the capacity of school directors to manage schools and to work effectively
with other actors, especially the school board and the municipality; and (c) to strengthen the role of the
MoES, and its school inspectors, in supporting the improvement of the management, governance, and
performance of primary and secondary education.
The component will comprise two basic sets of activities: (I) support for needs assessment,
institutional design and capacity building at local levels; and (2) support for institutional assessment and
capacity building for monitoring and evaluation at the central MoES. These activities will inform
education decision makers of the implications of European experience for Serbia and, thus, help refine
capacity building goals; will assess existing capacity and capacity building needs; will design and deliver
training to municipal officials, directors, school board members, and school inspectors; will monitor and
provide information to the Govermnent on the implementation of decentralization policies and programs;
and will strengthen the MoES in its capacity to identify and analyze problems in sector management and to
report on performance at the municipal and school levels. These latter two activities are designed to
shorten the feedback loop and speed up institutional learning as to how best to govern and manage
decentralized education in Serbia. Terms of reference for all activities have been included in the POM.
Project Management (US$ 0.6 million)
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is being established for implementation of this project. The
PCU will be responsible for the administrative and fiduciary responsibilities related to the project (e.g.
financial management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring and reporting). Specific coordinators have
been appointed for the various project components. With two exceptions (EIS and Assessments) these staff
- 10-



will be MoES employees and would not be located in the coordination unit. The EIS Coordinator and the
ESAS Director will be hired externally on a consultant basis. A procurement officer and an accountant for
the PCU have been appointed, and a full time Project Coordination Director was appointed in January
2002. These staff will be paid with project funding on a declining basis, but at salary levels commiserate
with the MoES's public sector pay scale. The Project Coordination Director would also be responsible for
reporting on substantive achievements under the project. Position descriptions have been included in the
POM.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
.__.__-__.__:_     (US$M)     Total     (US$M)   financing
1. School Improvement Grants                            5.66      46.5       5.00      50.0
2. Standards and Assessment                             2.15       17.7      1.52       15.2
Development
3. Education Information System                         2.66       21.9      2.20       22.0
4. Education Decentralization                            1.10       9.0      0.86        8.6
5. Project Management                                   0.60        4.9      0.42        4.2
Total Project Costs                   12.17      100.0     10.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                     12.17     100.0      10.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Fiscal and Institutional Decentralization: The key central policy issues being addressed in
preparation of this project are the assignment of functions and responsibilities for education to
municipalities and schools and the corresponding assignment of revenues to allow lower administrative
levels to carry out their assigned functions effectively. While significantly higher revenue has recently been
assigned to municipalities, reflecting political pressure to return to a more decentralized administrative
environment, adequate analysis and planning have not take place on how municipalities will allocate and
manage these funds -- for education as well as for other sectors - and what, if any, new functions and
responsibilities municipalities and potentially schools will be assigned. Policy advice has been provided as
part of project preparation, and further policy advice and detailed analysis will be supported under the
project, as well as under the Bank's forthcoming decentralization sector work. Both the decentralization
and information systems components are focused on helping the government produce the types of
information that will be needed to carry on an informed policy debate on these decentralization issues.
Support for helping the Government development a new funding formula has been included in the
EIS component of the project and the process of defining and developing support for a new funding model
for education is also being supported through various studies included in the decentralization component.
Particular emphasis will be given to helping the govemment monitor and address allocation equity issues in
education, as schools are funded depending on the level of local revenue capacity. Tax assignment
regulations do currently provide for increased retention of revenue in poorer municipalities, and a small
equalization fund does exit, although it is not earmarked for education. It will be essential in the coming
years for Serbia to monitor equity specifically in education and to develop mechanisms to target republic
funding on under-performing municipalities where necessary. Responsibilities for quality assurance
monitoring will also need to be considered in developing a new funding system. Studies to be funded under
the decentralization component will address the equity issue, as well as that of inter-governmental
assignments of responsibilities.
A study will also look at the potential for block grant funding earmarked specifically for education
-1 1-



from the republic to municipalities, and a contingent amount of funding has been allocated to fund small
block grant municipal pilots. As municipal assigned-revenue has recently been increased - which will
presumably serve to cover most non-salary recurrent cost needs in schools - it is unclear at this stage to
what extent the block granting of the payroll to municipalities is advisable or politically feasible.
Development of a per student funding formula as a framework for justifying education resourcing, and the
monitoring of efficiency and equity issues is being supported under the project, regardless of the decision
on whether or not to devolve funding to lower levels.
Another related set of key policy issues is the process of defining the relationship between
municipal education authorities, school managers and community/school councils. Association funding
under the decentralization component will provide technical and capacity building support to help define
these roles and relationships, putting particular emphasis on the role of school boards which feature
prominently in current drafts of the primary and secondary education laws. It is expected that school
boards will have a significant role in hiring school management (which is currently foreseen in the draft
law) and potentially for approving school budgets and overseeing school level expenditure. A set of
administrative manuals will be developed under the project and form the basis for capacity building
training. In addition to these more administrative functions, parental participation in the school and the
importance of communication to local stakeholders will be encouraged through the school board mechanism
via the School Inprovement Grants component.
Lastly, the role of inspection and inspectors in a decentralized education system is expected to be a
key policy issue for the new government. Proposed legislative amendments address the issue, but no not go
far enough in removing a command-and-control orientation to the inspectors role and re-orienting this
function to quality monitoring and pedagogic support. The role of inspectors will be a key issue for
technical support and advice to be provided by the Association via project financing. In addition, the
design and implementation of the School Improvement Grants component is expected to be based on a more
facilitative role for inspectors in those schools or clusters of schools to be targeted by the project.
3. Benefits and target population:
The School Improvement Grants component (half of IDA funding) represents direct resource
transfer to children and teachers at local levels in Serbia. It is expected that about 650 primary schools --
about 60% of the total -- and 50 secondary schools - about half of the general secondary schools - will
benefit from support and that about 25,000 teachers and roughly 300,000 students will benefit directly
from project funding.
The direct beneficiaries of the other project components are expected to be education policy
makers, administers and managers who are responsible for assuring quality and managing public resources
in an efficient and equitable manner. A second line of beneficiaries for these components will be education
professionals, stakeholders and community, business and parent groups who will be consumers of the
public information that the project will help produce. The project will help increase public accountability
for education by creating information with which all stakeholders will be able to evaluate the system's
performance and its responsiveness to Serbia's society and economic development. Lastly, the information
generation supported by this project is expected to lead to higher quality education in Serbia in the long
run, and thereby also directly benefit, over time, students, teachers, employers and the society at large.
- 12 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of four years. The MoES will be the
implementing agency for the project. As mentioned above, a PCU in the MoES will be responsible for
overall coordination, project management, financial management arrangements, disbursements and.
organizing procurement. See Section 1 above for a description of the PCU.
Institutional and implementation arrangements by component are as follows:
School Improvement Grants: The MoES will nominate Evaluation Boards at the regional level.
Terms of reference (TOR) for these boards are included in the POM. The Boards will meet about three
times per year to approve project proposals to be financed under the component. The Boards will be
supported by a School Grants Coordinator appointed to the MoES's development section, for which TOR
are also included in the POM. The School Grants Coordinator will be responsible for organizing and
coordinating all Small Grants activities including authorizing grant payments, guiding technical assistance
and publicizing the grant scheme. The grants mechanism will be piloted during the 2001-2002 school year
under funding provided by the Government of Switzerland. Limited technical assistance will be contracted
to assist in training required in the regions. In addition, semi-annual quality and procurement evaluations
of performance and outcomes will be conducted by the School Grants Coordinator. Limited funding will
also be made available to conduct spot financial audits of grant implementation at the same time that the
overall financial audit of the project is performed. The principal criterion for allocating funding across the
regions will be the official number of primary and secondary students enrolled in each region in the
2001-2002 school year.
Standards and Assessments Development: A Director will be appointed by the MoES to manage
the ESAS. The Director will recruit the senior management of the Service and senior management will
recruit technical staff. Position descriptions for management and staff are available in the POM. The
project will provide technical assistance and training, with assistance from the PCU, to support the
operations of the ESAS in its first four years (TOR are included in the POM). The ESAS's management is
expected to be on the evaluation committee for selection of technical assistance. The procurement of
furniture and equipment will be coordinated by the PCU Director and Procurement Officer in cooperation
with ESAS management. Recurrent funding for the Service will be budgeted as part of the Republic of
Serbia's annual operational budget on an increasing basis throughout the life of the project.
Education Information System: The MoES will nominate an EIS Steering Group for which TOR
are included in the POM. The Steering Group will oversee the procurement and implementation of the EIS
procurement for technical assistance and training and play a coordination and consensus building role in the
design and roll out of EIS modules. The Group will be supported by technical assistance to help design
and implement the roll out (see TOR in the POM). In addition, an EIS Coordinator has been appointed in
the MoES's policy and evaluation section. She will play a substantive secretariat and liaison role for the
Group. The procurement of servers, computers and other office equipment to support the EIS will be
coordinated by the Project Coordinator and Procurement Officer in cooperation with the Steering Group.
Education Decentralization: The MoES will hire a consultant who will act as the MoES's
principal counterpart for decentralization policy, and also coordinate the work of other technical assistance
and study contracts under the component. In addition, the MoES will appoint a Training Coordinator in its
teacher training section who will be the principal counterpart for training activities in the municipalities.
TOR for the technical assistance and Training Coordinator are included in the POM.
- 13-



Project Operational Manual (POM)
A POM was prepared with assistance from the Bank to facilitate the project's management and
implementation. The POM includes: (i) detailed project objectives and description; (ii) complete TOR for
technical assistance and implementation support; (iii) financial management arrangements; (iv) summary of
procedures for monitoring project implementation; (v) guidelines for processing withdrawal applications
under the Credit; (vi) methods of procurement to be followed as per the Procurement Schedule in the Credit
Agreement; (vii) guidelines for the use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and overall project funds;
(viii) procedures for using the Special Account, including those for replenishment; and (ix) sample bidding
documents and contracts for technical assistance and goods.
Mid-tern Review
At the time of the estimated mid-point of the project, the Borrower (through the PCU) will be
required to undertake a mid-term review of the implementation of the project. This review will be
undertaken in consultation with, and in a manner satisfactory to IDA. By July 31, 2004, the PCU will
prepare and furnish to IDA a report which integrates the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Once the project is completed, the PCU will prepare, in collaboration with IDA, an Implementation
Completion Report. The ICR should be completed not later than six months after final disbursement of the
Credit proceeds. The ICR will include an assessment of the execution of the project, costs and benefits
derived or to be derived, the performance of the Borrower, IDA and other agencies involved in project
implementation, and lessons leamed. The ICR will also include plans for the future operation of the
facilities - the ESAS and the EIS in particular -- which have been financed under the project, including
proposed indicators to monitor and evaluate future operations.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
Project M&E will be carried out in five main areas: (a) procurement and physical delivery of
goods; (b) physical implementation of project activities; (c) impact on the quality of teaching and learning
and school management under the School Grants; (d) financial management and control of project funds;
and (e) capacity building in all components. The final set of quantitative indicators included in Annex 1.
Financial Management and Disbursement
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in January
2002 to determine whether the financial management arrangements within the PCU are acceptable to the
Association. It is concluded that the arrangements established by the PCU satisfy the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements. In addition, the PCU has agreed to the following:
Action                                                          Deadline
1. Establish a permanent financial management system             Within three months
after Effectiveness
2. The PCU to select auditors acceptable to the Bank, to audit the Credit  09/30/2002
- 14 -



accounts.
3. Prepare FMR on the interim system                            First quarter after
Effectiveness
4. Prepare FMR on the new system                                 First quarter after
installation of the new
system
Financial Reporting. The PCU will ensure the preparation and distribution of consolidated
periodic progress reports to the relevant government institutions, including the IDA, to reflect: (i) sources
and uses of funds, by component and activity; (ii) project progress; and (iii) procurement activities. In this
context, the PCU will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which would be submitted
to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will be submitted the
quarter after the project becomes effective. The FMR formats were discussed during appraisal and agreed
at negotiations.
Audit Arrangements. The PCU would be responsible for ensuring that an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Association, is selected and that the audit firm will audit the project financial statement,
Special Accounts (SA), and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) in accordance with ISA. The PCU will
maintain responsibility for the management of project funds and the SA. They will monitor and keep track
of the use of funds. The audit will cover all funds related to the project, including counterpart funds, for all
project components. The audited financial statements, the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding
fiscal year will be sent to the Association within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Credit will be made based on traditional disbursement
methods (i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on SOEs and full documentation,
and direct payments from the Credit Account). The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be allocated in
accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the PCU will establish,
maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. The
option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The physical needs of Serbia's education system after more than a decade of isolation from the rest
of Europe and budgetary neglect due to war and economic mismanagement vastly exceed the scope of a
single project.  Balancing this situation of extensive physical needs for system revival, there is a
well-considered basis for policy reforms in the sector, although information on which to benchmark reforms
remains lacking. The proposed project attempts to address the urgent needs for both investments to
improve the teaching and learning environment, and investments to build capacity and develop information
in order to deepen and refine the reform process. A project aimed at the central procurement and
distribution of priority teaching and learning materials, including textbooks, was not seriously considered
because it would not provide for sustainability of the interventions and would not support the reform
process which is aimed at empowering localities, not central education authorities, to make decisions on
appropriate teaching and learning materials. Given the funding available for education, and the availability
of a number of community development projects financed by other donors which could support school
reconstruction and renovation, allocating funding to civil works in education was also not seriously
considered.
- 15-



A decision was also made at the PCD stage to be immediately responsive to this new client by
funding an evolving reform process, rather than waiting a year or more for a more refined and detailed
reform blueprint to be produced. Given information constraints - which this project serves to address - it
is unlikely that necessary benchmarking goals could have been produced in a timely manner to allow for a
project that supports a more detailed reform agenda. Although some significant policy development and
dialogue was delivered during preparation - particularly in the area of decentralization and financial
devolution -- it was decided to finance significant analysis and policy work under the project, and focus on
building the government's own capacity to deepen and refine its reform.
The Association did, however, seriously consider limiting IDA funding to a small technical
assistance project aimed at supporting the refinement and implementation of the government's educational
reform strategy -- which is, in fact, the initial approach described in the Bank's Transitional Support
Strategy. This approach would address the needs for reform, and would capitalize on the receptiveness of
the current government to reform. But it would not yield immediate and visible benefits to improve the
educational process, and could therefore undermine public support for the reform and for the current
government. The fact that the Association will make resources available directly to schools in addition to
promoting reforms and building govemance capacity is an integral part of our strategic approach to the
education sector in Serbia.
Three additional alternatives considered involved the format and coverage of the project:
*   First, for format, the team considered the possibility an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), rather than a
conventional investment project format. This alternative was rejected because the APL instrument is
more appropriate for successive waves of investment in a stable policy environment. In Serbia, the
education policy environment is expected to evolve rapidly, in a manner which is likely to affect the
nature of educational investments that are appropriate. For example, the reform is likely to involve
school consolidation at the primary level and streamlining of vocational programs at the secondary
level. In such a setting, it would be difficult to appraise in advance the need for future school
investments, as an APL would typically involve. Experience has also shown that APL preparation is
often longer than preparation of conventional investment projects. In view of the urgency of capacity
building and resourcing needs which the project aims to address, as mentioned above, a decision was
made to proceed immediately with these objectives, while supporting an ongoing reform process.
*   Second, initial concept proposals for the school grants component called for explicit poverty targeting.
However, during preparation, the MoES requested that grants be allocated on a competitive basis for
several reasons. A number of other donors including UNICEF, USAID and the Soros Foundation, as
well as numerous NGOs are currently targeting resources for education and municipal development to
southern Serbia -- the poorest region in the country - and to particularly disadvantaged groups such as
Roma and Albanians. The capacity of these communities to absorb further targeted assistance is
limited. The MoES also argued correctly that transitional poverty is rampant in Serbia and that most
schools in the country include children from poor households, and that all schools in Serbia are finding
it difficult or impossible to identify resources that can be focused on improving learning outcomes.
The Association agreed to allow allocation of grants on a competitive basis with the stipulations that
schools grants funding would be allocated to the regions on a per student basis (using 2001/2002
enrollment data) and that regional evaluation boards would give priority to grant proposals coming
from rural areas or over-crowded schools in urban areas. These later two criteria will serve as an
implicit poverty targeting criteria for this investment.
- 16 -



*   Third, the team considered a project that covers educational interventions in Montenegro as well as
Serbia. This option would have obvious political advantages, but would also require a significant
augmentation in the preparation budget for the project. The resources provided for the project are
already extremely lean, and would definitely not be adequate to support expanding the project scope to
include Montenegro. Focussing on Serbia is a justifiable expedient, given Montenegro's much smaller
size (roughly 700,000 people compared to a population of about 8.5 mnillion in Serbia) and the fact that
Montenegro has benefitted from more than two years of assistance from donors while conditions in the
education sector in Serbia continued to deteriorate.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).New Borrower
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
-.___________________________  .____________________ _ -(Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Other development agencies
Government of Finland            Pre- and In-Service Teacher
Education Reform
Government of Italy              Regional Teacher Resource
Centers
Government of Switzerland        Regional Training Center and
School Libraries
The Open Society Institute        Curriculum and Textbook
Reform; In-service training
provision
UNICEF                           In-Service Teacher Training;
Pilot schools
European Training Foundation     Vocation, Technical and Adult
Education
Government of Germany/GTZ         Vocation and Technical
Education
European Reconstruction Agency    Community Development/
School Reconstruction
USAID                             Community Development/
School Reconstruction/
Municipal capacity building
Government of Danmark             Technical and Vocational
Education
Government of Canada/CIDA         In-Service Teacher Training
Government of Austria             Pilot Schools Program.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 17 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of the project reflects the lesson learned from Bosnia and transition environments
throughout Eastern and Central Europe that an early focus on govemance and finance issues in education is
crucial to promoting change and creating an environment for long term sustainability. Within the context
of govemance and institutional change, the importance of creating transparent information flows for
monitoring system performance and the allocation of public resources is also a driving force behind project
design.
The design of the project also reflects the finding from other transition countries in the region that,
while fundamental policy reform is needed in order to make education programs cost effective and
responsive to the needs of the global economy, visible benefits are needed in the short term in order to
sustain political support for the reform and for the reform government. The School Improvement Grants
component of the proposed project is designed to yield immediate and visible gains, at the same time that
other components support strategy development and the longer-term investments that are crucial to the
success of the reform strategy.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project design is fully consistent with the new Government's education reform
strategy. The MoES developed this strategy through an intensive process of consultation with domestic
stakeholders and with international partners -- including the OECD, UNICEF, and the Association. The
main elements of the strategy have been endorsed by the Cabinet and the Parliament. The Ministry is
keenly aware of the need to continue to ensure the participation of stakeholders as elements of the strategy
are refined and reform measures are implemented. The project was prepared in collaboration with working
groups of MoES and non-government stakeholders in the areas of decentralization, assessments and quality
assurance.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project design would offer the client the benefit of the Association's diverse
experience in the process of education system reform and recovery in the other transition countries,
including Serbia's Balkan neighbors. It is unlikely that the Government could identify another donor
partner to effectively support systemic reform issues for education in the context of the government's macro
reform strategy. The Bank is currently financing similar initiatives -- including support for governance and
funding reform, information system development and assessments - in Bosnia, Macedonia and Kosovo.
There is likely to be potential to develop contacts and share experience across these neighboring countries
which would lead to increased communication, cooperation and stability within the region.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV-=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
This is an institution building project. See economic justification for capacity building in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
- 18-



The project will support a new funding system for education that will include definition of a
funding formula and potential delegation of funding on a per student basis to municipalities or schools.
Support will be required to help develop and manage the funding formula at the central level, and to help
local authorities define spending priorities and manage funding at the municipal and school levels. A
municipal management handbook will be produced that includes procedures for financial management. It
will also be a priority to ensure that locally contributed resources for education, whether from municipal
revenue (outside the funding formula) or community/parental contributions are included in
school/municipal budgets. School boards, created in draft legislation, are expected to be the principal
oversight body for transparent management of school-based resources.
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
No outstanding issues not considered elsewhere in the PAD.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
See section C. Project Description Summary 1 and 4.
4.2 Project management:
See section C. Project Description 1.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6
4.4 Financial management issues:
A CFAA was initiated for Serbia in October of 2001, and the report is being finalized. However,
based on the country experience in other Association financed Grants and due diligence work conducted
under the project, it can be concluded there is lack of accountability in the Serbian government's overall
accounting and reporting functions. There is currently no Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) in FRY and no
independent external audit is carried out on Republican Government accounts. There is, therefore, very
limited transparency and financial accountability over the use of public finances. There is also a dearth of
qualified accountants in the public sector. The CFAA mission carried out a review of three foreign owned
banks, which have been judged acceptable by IDA to hold Special Accounts. No assessment of the local
banks was conducted. However, an Association financed project (FSD TA) is assisting the Govermment to
restructure and privatize state banks.
Given lack of financial management capacity at the MoES, it has been decided that the project
should be "ring fenced". A PCU has been established at the MoES that will have the responsibility for the
project's administrative functions (including financial management). The PCU has been staffed with
qualified people, who will also be provided with training to be financed from the Credit. An interim
financial management system acceptable to the
Association has been established at the PCU. This system will be up-graded after the project
becomes effective. The project accounts will be audited by auditors acceptable to the Association . The
- 19-



selection of the auditor will be based on the recommendations of the CFAA report. An operational manual
has been prepared, incorporating all procedures for the implementation of the project taking into account
Association requirements. The special account will be opened in one of the foreign commercial banks that
was reviewed by the CFAA mission.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
n/a
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n/a
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
n/a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n/a
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
n/a
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
In the case of a restructuring and capacity building project such as this, all those involved in
education could be considered as stakeholders, from students through Ministry staff. The MoES in Serbia
takes very seriously the need to consult with stakeholders in the design of change programs. Emerging
from a society where autocracy and top down decision making were the norm both under the former
Yugoslavia and the more recent Milosevic regime, the MoES realizes that consultation is vital to ensure
that stakeholders understand the implications of policy changes. Over the past several months, the MoES
has undertaken a serious and large set of consultations to assess stakeholder views on a number of topics,
including four areas in which changes are being proposed under this project: a) assessment; b) curriculum;
c) democratization; and d) decentralization.
The MoES in Serbia takes very seriously the need to consult with stakeholders in the design of
change programs. Emerging from a society where autocracy and top down decision making were the norm
both under the former Yugoslavia and the more recent Milosevic regime, the MoES realizes that
consultation is vital to ensure that stakeholders understand the implications of policy changes. Over the
past several months, the MoES has undertaken a serious and large set of consultations to assess stakeholder
views on a number of topics, including four areas in which changes are being proposed under this project:
a) assessment; b) curriculum; c) democratization; and d) decentralization.
The MoES wrote to each of the twelve regional offices informing them of the consultations and
asking them to facilitate the consultation process. During these consultations, 8,500 participants were
included in a process of structured workshops, led by a specially trained team of 60 people. Participants
- 20 -



included teachers from primary and secondary schools, pedagogues, students, school directors and school
board members (which include parents and community representatives). These groups met in sessions
lasting four hours each, with a workshop team of 5 facilitators per workshop. The format for each
workshop took approximately thirty hours to prepare. A pilot workshop was held to test the format and the
methods of data collection, after which a first round of twelve workshops was held. A total of 85
workshops, with 1 00 participants each were held across the twelve regions.
The workshop design was as follows:
*   An opening session was held with a description of the goals and a description of the proposed
reform strategy.
*   Six panels were formed by category of participant ( i.e. students, parents etc), each with a
facilitator. Students facilitated the panels of students. Groups introduced each other, and wrote
down their expectations of the workshops on stickers. These were attached to large sheets and
shared. Following this stage, groups were formed by theme.
*   Each thematic group was organized with students as first presenters and pedagogues and
psychologists at the end of the session, so that informed views would not bias the statements of
other participants. Participants commented on the needs of each of the thematic areas of education
and these comments were collated. Comments from each of the stakeholders groups represented
were then crossed checked, so that consensus was reached across the group as to prioritized issues
and recommendations.
*   A plenary session followed, where rapporteurs from each group presented their findings as to
priorities for the four thematic areas.
*   On the way out stakeholders also had to hand in papers which indicated the main fears and hopes
for the reform process.
All the papers and stickers were collected according to the thematic teams. These are now being
analyzed by the government, but preliminary results indicate a high level of public support for reform
measures, including for decentralization and for the need to begin to introduce standardized assessment of
student performance in the system. Final results, expected early in 2002, will be used to inform project
implementation. Preliminary results also indicate interesting findings in the area of consensus. There were
no noticeable differences in workshop results between regions, from the North to the Macedonian border.
This was not an expected result and shows that most stakeholders are informed regarding desirable changes
in the education system.  It is quite possible that constant exposure to other European systems has
provided fertile ground for systems change.
Further Social Assessment Activities: This consultation process has fed into the project design
phase of the Republic of Serbia Education Improvement Project. However, the education team realizes that
it is not enough to ensure that stakeholders needs are being met by the project. A baseline survey will be
run for the School Improvement Grants component which will further examine the needs at school level of
a sample of the total schools. In addition, both a mid-term and a final survey which will replicate the
design of the original consultation process will be carried out to measure the impact of activities on
stakeholders concems and goals.
During project preparation, the Bank team , together with representatives of the MoES team, met
with representatives of school boards to ensure that the design of the School Improvement Grants
component was practical and met their needs. During these discussions all participants were enthusiastic
about the purpose of the grants scheme.  The roles of the school board and the directors are gradually
being changed with the aim of increasing local participation. New legislation calls for the number of
- 21 -



parents on school boards to increase so that they are one third of the representation, along with municipal
and school level members. This action indicates the willingness of the MoES to empower local
communities to be involved in schooling, which is a principal overall objective of this project and a specific
objective of the school grants component. Another proposed change is that the board hires and fires a
school director. There is obviously potential for difficulty here, particularly in an environment where
directors were previously appointed on the basis of political affiliation by the central ministry.
However, it is hoped that the grant scheme will provide a forum for collaboration. Board members
were also concerned about the absence of quality materials in the schools and were particularly interested in
the Type II grants - those for extra curricular events and materials. In the school visited, it was made clear
that parents would and do participate in the life of the school, and would be willing to contribute the 15%
contribution. There was some resistance from the director and the teachers on the boards to the idea that
they might need or receive training to improve their skills in school management. This part of the project
will take some time to influence the system, and should be regarded as catalytic in nature only, not part of a
comprehensive reforn of approaches to pedagogical change.
Under funding by other donors, a wide range of stakeholders are being involved in workshops and
discussions on democratization. During one held in the last mission, entitled Democratization of the
Education system, funded by the European Union, the discussion groups identified assessment and
curriculum change as two major needs in starting system change. There is a complete absence of useable
data at the school level and upwards, as decisions under the old system were not made on the basis of
information, and this absence was keenly felt by the teachers represented. It can be seen that unusual
efforts are being made by the Government to discuss envisaged changes. Whether the sample being
involved is politically broad, it is hard to say. It is, however, true to say that most teachers teach because
they are interested in the profession, not because of political affiliations. There will certainly be resistance
in some areas to the empowerment of the school boards, particularly in the matter of selecting directors, but
the Bank team views this issue as a fundamental political shift away from the politics of the previous
regime and toward local empowerment of communities.
Given the Government stakeholders assessment initiative above, it was decided at project appraisal
not to use highly limited Bank WPA financing to fund additional stakeholders assessment as part of the
project preparation and appraisal process. Stakeholders assessment will, however, figure prominently in
the implementation arrangement for each separate project component. The MoES's obvious commitment to
stakeholders assessment using its own funding is an excellent indicator that it will take these assessments
seriously under the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders in the project include ministry officials at all levels, school directors, teachers, parents
students and their communities. These will work towards ensuring local participation in developing and
implementing the school grant proposal at the school level. This representation will be continued
throughout the life of the project and should continue beyond it, particularly ensuring that minority
stakeholders have representation on decision making bodies. Other stakeholders in the school grants
component include the teacher training and inspection function. Without substantive changes in the
attitudes of these institutions, true change will not be reflected in the schools.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society will be represented on school boards and on regional evaluation boards for the school
grants component. NGOs are expected to be eligible to apply for and execute funding under the School
- 22 -



Grants mechanism.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will assist the government to develop functioning administrative structures and
resource allocation mechanisms to ensure equity in the allocation of educational resources. The project will
also facilitate the creation of information with which to monitor education and therefore social development
outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The MoES is expected to institute a permanent process of stakeholder assessment, as demonstrated
by its current assessment exercise. The Bank's supervision budget will be used to conduct simple
survey-based assessments at mid-term review and at the end of the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed project addresses two important dimensions of sustainability and risk: political and
financial. The Government's educational reforms will not succeed unless they continue to enjoy political
support and adequate financing. A lesson from other transition countries is that public support for the
reform needs to be nourished from time to time by short-term, visible reform actions and reform benefits.
People need to see the reform happening, and to feel the benefits of reform. Decentralization is a key area
of the Government's reform  strategy.  The Government has developed framework legislation for
decentralization of service delivery - including education - to the municipality level. This plan will
produce visible results, but it also entails risks that service delivery could suffer from too-rapid
implementation. The Standards and Assessment Development component of the proposed project will help
minimize this risk by supporting the development of implementation decrees and other instruments for
fine-tuning the implementation of the Government's decentralization plan. The School Improvement Grants
component will support local interventions which will have a visible impact on improved teaching and
learning conditions at the school level. Through both these actions, the proposed project will help sustain
political support for the Government's educational reforms.
- 23 -



Financial sustainability of the Government's educational reforms depends largely on the soundness
of the plan for financing locally provided education programs. Current plans may entail excessive reliance
upon municipality revenues for financing basic education. This proposal entails a serious risk that the
poorest and smallest municipalities will not be able to afford education of minimally acceptable quality.
The Education Decentralization component will help develop a more viable financing formula. To reduce
the risk that decentralization and greater private provision could degrade education quality, the project's
Standards and Assessment Development, EIS, and Monitoring and Evaluation components will help in the
long run to monitor outputs and trigger remedial action when educational performance of particular
municipalities or institutions slips below acceptable levels.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assurnptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
-        Risk                   Risk Riting            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
School Grants: School officials and        M         Local capacity in Serbia is relatively high.
teachers respond to funding mechanism                However, due to under-resourcing and, in
with ideas and improvement plans/projects            particular, low salaries in recent years, teacher
motivation is low. Particular focus will be put
on the need for outreach, using local TA, for
rural and disadvantaged areas where capacity is
likely relatively low. We will also focus on the
need to include incentives for teachers in the
project, short of cash payments for
participation.
Resources will be devoted to outreach programs
for both grant applications and implementation.
Decentralization: Political commitment to  N         The political drive for administrative
decentralization                                     decentralization and fiscal devolution is strong.
The former Yugoslavia had been decentralized
and there is strong consensus about going back
to the previous model. The risk is not whether
or not decentralization will occur, but what form
it will take and whether or not it will promote
equity, efficiency and quality objectives.
Decentralization: A decentralized          M         All technical and policy advice we provide and
framework is put in place that ensures a             all financing for project components is aimed at
transparent focus on equity, efficiency and          helping design and implement decentralized
quality monitoring                                   management and accountability mechanisms and
building capacity to improve the functioning of
these systems.
Decentralization: Municipalities/schools   N         Local capacity is relatively high and the
respond to need for better procedures and            proposed reforms are building on the traditions
local control of education resources                 of the previously decentralized tradition.
Decentralization: Local communities and    S         The most difficult part of the decentralization
schools accept responsibility and                    will be promoting behavioral change at the
- 24 -



accountability for school performance                school level. The School Fund will be our
principal instrument for facilitating innovation
and parental participation. Technical advice
will also be provided to help design the role of
school boards and parent councils (both
included in draft legislation) and train municipal
and community leaders.
EIS: Systems analysis for EMIS is          M         Previous experience shows that information
participatory and consensus is built on              systems are very hard to get right. The project
system performance monitoring indicators             will put significant focus and technical advice
on ensuring that local levels participate in EIS
design. We are building on a so far successful
EIS initiative in Bosnia.
EIS: Government is able to hire personnel   S        Technical expertise in Serbia is very high, but it
and provide adequate recurrent funding to            is uncertain that the government can afford to
allow system to function                             hire and retain highly trained locals. We will
focus on simplicity, capacity building and
outsourcing of particular technical aspects
where possible.
Assessments: Govemment devotes              S        Professional expertise is not a major problem,
adequate recurrent funding and personnel             although as with the EIS, hiring qualified people
to establish a professional autonomous               at govenmment salaries will be. We will
agency for assessments                               recommend a higher than MoES pay scale for
this function. Provision of adequate recurrent
funding for the Assessment Agency will be an
indication of the govemment's support for this
initiative.
Assessments: Assessment data is well       M         Funding will be provided for a public relations
received by the Serbian public                       component for the assessment service and
technical advisors will take all care to promote
assessments as an essential element of quality
assurance which must be balanced by other
qualitative and quantitative information on the
perfonmance of the education system.
Monitoring and Evaluation: data            N         The creation of the Ministry's new Department
collection and evaluation within the MoES            for Intemational Cooperation and Development
is transparent                                       is an indication of the priority the new
govenmment attaches to creating a new type of
public service in Serbia. The current staff of the
MoES is committed to its monitoring and
evaluation responsibility and should be
successful in institutionalizing this function
during its tenure. The project has allotted
significant funding to promote this new role in
- 25 -



the context of evaluating project performance,
particularly in the context of the School Grants
component.
From Components to Outputs
Government procures technical assistance   M         The share of technical assistance in this credit
to assist strategy development and                   will be kept below 10% and all steps will be
implement components as designed                    taken to identify other grant financing where
possible. Given the importance of getting the
decentralization process right, the MoES has
agreed to proceed with IDA-funded technical
advice in the absence of other donor funding for
TA on a grant basis.
Government provides counterpart funds      H         The Country Unit will work closely with
for project                                          Ministry of Finance officials to make sure that
Bank counterpart funding is provided during the
annual budgeting process.
The MoES has the capacity to ensure        H         An action plan has been agreed with the
effective financial management of project            Goverrnent to build financial management
accounts                                             capacity in the MoES (see section C4).
The MoES has the capacity to ensure        H         An action plan has been agreed with the
effective procurement of goods and                   Government to build procurement capacity in
services under the project                          the MoES (see Annex 6).
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
M
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   A Subsidiary Credit Agreement, acceptable to IDA, will be executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Republic of Serbia.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 26 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
a 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The  ect complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
J6ries A. Stvens                      s . Socknat                   Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
FEB. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Key   s f`w sr'w,e    Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improving the social       a Education access,       * Poverty-focused         * Macroeconomic situation
well-being of the most        attainment and           household survey;         permits adequate
vulnerable and building      assessment indicators;  * Public expenditure        recurrent funding
human capacity             o Increasing share of GDP   review;                   (including increased
devoted to education (at  * Information and financial  teacher remuneration) to
about 4 %, among the      systems data published.   improve quality.
lowest in Europe)
Improving governance and   * MoES reporting to       * MoES Report Cards to    * Political support for
building more effective       municipalities on        municipalities;           decentralization reform
institutions                 performance in education  * Benchmarking data;      measures
* Initial use of transparent  * Project data on
formula funding in        assessment and EIS
education;                components;
* Increased relevance of  * Bank review of tools,
school boards;            systems and procedures;
* Introduction of
school/municipal
management and
financing procedures;
* Development of
information systems
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Building capacity and      * Improved governance and  * Manual on funding      * Political commitment to
producing systematic         management of education   formula procedures;       transparency of
information to help          in Serbia as indicated by  * Municipal administration  information on equitable
government promote effective  defining the roles of    and finance handbook;     resource distribution and
education reform             various levels/institutions  * EIS modules;         system performance
and the introduction of  * Published assessment
various tools, systems and  data
procedures (Report cards,  * MoES Report Cards to
EIS, school board and     Municipalities
municipal manuals)      * MoES updating of
* Monitoring of basic       performance benchmarks
performance indicators by  set at appraisal
municipalities (baselines
set during appraisal)
including per student
spending, municipal
financial commitment to
education per student,
student/teacher ratios by
language group, etc.
* Use of funding formula to
monitor system efficiency
and equitable per student
- 28 -



distribution of public
funding for education in
Serbia
* Performance data on
student achievement
produced and made
available to the public
Improving teaching and     * Improved ability of    * Independent evaluation of  * Introduction of a
learning in schools and      schools to design school  School Grant activities  decentralized governance
empowering local             development plans      * School Grant progress     framework which
communities to take        * School boards and        reports                   empowers school
responsibility for their schools  parents more able to  * Household survey      officials, teachers and
assist in defining school  * Social Assessments    local stakeholders to be
quality and providing                              responsible for school
support to the principal                           improvements and
and teaching staff                                 innovation
* Teachers more able and                           * Ability of school to utilize
willing to be flexible and                         fund mechanism for
inventive in teaching                              quality improvements in
methods                                            view of insufficient
* Schools which have an                              recurrent funding and
improved physical                                  salaries in the system
environment and                                  * Transparency of grant
equipment                                          selection procedure
* Improved in-service
training delivery capacity
and utilization at the
regional level
* Improved teacher/student
satisfaction with school
life on survey
Output from each         Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
School Improvement Grants:  * 2000 school and board  * School Grant progress  * School officials and
- to promote improved        staff trained in analyzing  reporting              teachers respond to
teaching and learning in     school needs and putting  * School Grant formal    funding mechanism with
schools                      together school           evaluations at mid-term  ideas and improvement
- to empower local           development plans         and project completion   plans/projects
communities to take        * Staff of 900 schools   * WB supervision reports
responsibility for their     trained in the            on School Grants
schools.                     development of proposals  component
and proposal writing
* 100 education system
personnel able to develop
criteria for and judge
successful SDPs
* Approximately 650
primary schools and 50
- 29 -



secondary schools
provided with grants for
school based
improvement activities
* 900 schools where the
school environment has
been significantly
improved in terms of
teacher satisfaction,
student attendance, and
increased number of
parent visits to the school
* In-kind and cash
resources as an indication
of interest from
communities in school
activities leveraged to
15% of all grant funds
* Number of school board
meetings held, types of
decisions taken,
satisfaction of board
members on survey
* Number of schools with
minor infrastructure
improvements
* Number of schools with
new equipment financed
under the grants
Education Decentralization:  * approximately 4,000    * Mid-term review of      * Political commitment to
to strengthen governance and  school directors, members  decentralization reform   decentralization;
management capacity in        of school boards, school                          * A decentralized
primary and secondary         inspectors, and 870                                  framework is put in place
education                     municipal officials will be                          that ensures a transparent
trained in school                                    focus on equity, efficiency
governance and                                       and quality monitoring;
management                                        * Municipalities/schools
* guides on school                                     respond to need for better
governance and                                       procedures and local
management will be                                   control of education
written, printed, and                                resources;
distributed to teachers,                           * Local communities and
directors, board members,                            schools accept
inspectors and municipal                             responsibility and
officials                                            accountability for school
* eight surveys,                                       performance
representative at the
regional level, will be
carried out to assess the
opinions and views of
beneficiaries (parents),
teachers, directors, and
board members
- 30 -



* four studies of education
governance and
management will be
carried out to inform
central government
decisions, beginning with
a study of municipal
finance and resource
allocation in the
education sector.
Education Information       * Identification, design,  * Information and financial  * Systems analysis for EIS
Systems:                      program testing and        management system         is participatory
To promote effective          distribution of an         progress reporting        and consensus is built on
management of resources and   education information   * Formal evaluations of      system performance
monitoring of performance     system for primary and     training                  monitoring indicators;
through improved information  secondary schools;      * WB supervision of        * Incentives are crested for
and financing systems.      * Implementation of a        information and financial  the collection and use of
newly designed financial  systems component          data
accounting system for the                          * Government is able to
compulsory school sector;                            hire personnel and
* About 6,000 key                                      provide adequate
stakeholders (ministry,                              recurrent funding to allow
provincial and                                       system to function
municipality officials,
school principals and
school accountants)
trained to effectively use
the tools of the initial set
of EIS modules;
* Development of a
per-pupil based funding
system for the primary
and secondary school
education sector; and
* Implementation of the
per-pupil funding system
in a series of pilot
municipalities.
Standards and Assessment    * Assessment Service      * Component progress       * Government devotes
Development:                  formally established       reporting                 adequate recurrent
- To modernize and          * Assessment Service staff  * Published Assessment     funding and personnel to
strengthen the MoES's         trained to perform their   Standards                 establish a professional
present quality assurance     assigned jobs           * Published assessment       autonomous agency for
mechanisms;                 * Assessment standards set   results                   assessments;
- To establish a valid, reliable,  for all grades, based on  * WB supervision of  * Assessment data is well
practical, and internationally  curriculum objectives    Assessment Component      received by the Serbian
recognized system for       * Sample-based, national                               public
assessment and examinations;  assessments done at key
- To establish and develop a  stages (to be specified);
sustainable ESAS.           * School psychologist/
pedagogue and teacher
training materials
designed and field-tested,
- 31 -



and trainers trained to
help teachers improve
their formative
assessment skills.
* Grade 8/9 selection
examination
modernization process
started: present system
analyzed,
recommendations for
change made to the
MoES
* Matura modernization
process started: syllabi for
4-6 core compulsory
subjects written,
specimen papers
prepared, awareness
training for teachers
conducted
* Participation in
OECD/PISA-Plus
Project Management          * Timely execution of      * Project Progress Reports  * PCU remains fully staffed
procurement;            * WB Supervision Reports
* Disbursement schedule is
maintained;
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
School Improvement Grants  US$ 5.66 million            * Formal progress and     * Government procures
financial reports         technical assistance to
assist strategy
development and
implement components as
designed
Standards and Assessment   US$ 2.15 million            * Mid-Term Review         * The MoES has the
Development                                                                         capacity to ensure
effective procurement of
goods and services under
the project
Education Information System US$ 2.66 million          * Supervision             * The MoES has the
Aide-memoire               capacity to ensure
effective financial
management of project
accounts
- 32 -



Education Decentralization  US$ 1.1 million         * Project Status Reports  * Government provides
counterpart funds for
project
Project Management       US$ 0.6 million            * Project Completion
Report
* Independent Evaluation
of the School Grants
component
-33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$5.66 million
School Improvement Grants Component
Strategic Context
1.    Schools in Serbia have significant needs for equipment and rehabilitation, as well as for upgrading
teaching and learning. Not only are facilities in poor repair and materials and equipment in short supply,
teachers are demoralized and underpaid. In addition to basic material needs, the government places high
priority on providing quality improvements directly to schools to build on existing potential for system
change and to encourage local level inputs to education. Empowering schools and communities requires
support for demand driven initiatives from the school level. The School Improvement Grant component is
designed to address some of these needs through further empowering school boards and community
members. At the present time, boards exist but have not played a major role in decision making or in
making the school accountable for quality. The government is changing the membership of the boards
through amendments to the existing education laws to include more parents and to allow local authorities
greater powers in managing schools.
School Fund Objective
2.     The objectives of the school fund are to improve teaching and learning in schools and to empower
local communities to take responsibility for their schools. Funds would be allocated on the basis of
evaluated "school development plans", which would require prior approval by school boards. The funding
would be managed directly by the school board and school staff to carry out prioritized activities, thus
empowering the school to analyze problems, and also providing cash resources to address them. The
school board, and potentially other local stakeholders, will be empowered to take a more active role in
making decisions to improve the quality of education.
Project Description
3.     The school grants program will finance small school improvements projects to be designed and
implemented by schools and their communities, as represented by school boards. About US$ 5.0 million in
grant funding under the IDA credit will be allocated to Serbia's 12 regions on a per student basis, and the
remainder of funding under the component (US$ 660,000) will support training, technical assistance,
outreach and evaluation costs. The size of the small grants will be based on a per student allocation within
each region. An initial maximum grant of $10,000 per school has been established, to be reviewed
following a pilot phase. Grant funding will be based on prioritized activities in school development plans
which will be developed as a prerequisite to applying for a grant. In a first phase of the process, school
board members, school directors and teachers, as well as other stakeholders such as inspectors and regional
and municipal education employees will receive training in how to develop school development plans that
prioritize both pedagogical and material needs. Training will be provided by an MoES school development
team (see below) which will receive training and be initially supported through a technical assistance and
training contract (TOR included in the POM). In addition, school staff and interested local stakeholders
- 34-



will receive training under the contractual arrangement in how to write grant proposals, and simple grant
preparation manuals and application forms will be provided. Following their training, school directors will
take the lead in developing school development plans, together with the Board and the school staff. Staff at
the school will then develop grant proposals addressing one or more of the priority activities in the school
development plan. Once a grant proposal is prepared, it will be endorsed by each school's respective school
board prior to submission to a regional evaluation board (see below) for approval.
4.     Grants Approval Process: The School Grants Coordinator will head a school development team
based in the MoES which will manage project implementation and be primarily responsible for
disseminating knowledge on school improvement and school development. In addition to the Coordinator,
the team will consist of a central administrative officer, two experts from each of the 12 regional MoES
offices, and one administrative staff person at each regional level. The regional members of the school
development team will form the core of 12 evaluation boards to be organized in each of Serbia's regions.
The regional evaluation boards will comprise 7 members: two regional experts (both also members of the
school development team), one from a non-competing school, two from other regions involved as School
Development Program staff, one non-MoES member from the region, and one staff person from the MoES.
Once grant proposals are prepared at the school level, with support from the school development team, and
approved by the school's respective school board, the proposals will be submitted to the regional boards for
approval based on agreed criteria which is included in the POM. Proposals will be requested three times
annually and will be approved on a competitive basis. Evaluation boards will be permitted to return grants
with comments, and unsuccessful schools will be permitted to re-submit amended proposals in later rounds.
Although the criteria do not contain explicit poverty targeting (see Rationale, page 17), evaluation boards
will be mandated to give priority to schools in rural areas and to over-crowded schools in urban areas
which will effectively ensure a poverty focus. At the close of the project, members of the school
development team are expected to be integrated into the quality assurance program of the Ministry. This
small unit will be funded on a declining basis so as to ensure that the program is sustainable and fully
integrated into the MoES activities. Total funding for outreach training and evaluation of proposals is
estimated at US$ 0.6 million.
5.     Pilot Phase:  A pilot phase of the project has been designed and is expected to be carried out,
under funding provided by the Government of Switzerland, during the 2001-2002 school year in order to
assess the appropriateness of implementation mechanisms. The objectives of the pilot are to begin training
members of the school development team, to test the mechanism for grant development and distribution,
and to develop and pilot materials for use countrywide. If the pilot is not funded prior to the main credit
funds becoming available, manuals and materials will be developed and piloted at the beginning of the
project 2002-2003 school year.  Under the pilot, training will begin and the grant mechanism will be
piloted in four regions, with ten schools chosen from each. Regions will be chosen to be representative of
income levels, and schools will be chosen from the group recently involved in the MoES's client
consultations in order to capitalize on the spirit of enthusiasm created during the consultation process. An
evaluation of the pilot phase will be carried out at the end of the summer of 2002 assuming that the pilot is
run under bi-lateral funding before effectiveness.
6.     Following the pilot phase, all schools in the regions will be able to apply for grants on a four month
cycle with the entire school grants component being completed in three years. The MoES aims to provide
grants to 650 basic schools (around 60% of the total) and 50 general secondary schools (50% of secondary
schools) during the three year period. No school should receive more than a single grant using IDA
funding. (A school is defined as an administrative unit headed by a Director, not individual feeder or
satellite schools). If, for any reason, adequate funding for the pilot does not become available during the
2001-2002 school year, pilot activities including development of manuals and materials and delivery of
- 35 -



training will be carried out at the beginning of the 2002-2003 school year using IDA funding, and the wider
project will be delayed by about six months. As the school grants component is expected to be completely
committed after three years and the project is of four years duration, this delay would not prevent the
component from being implemented within the project's time frame. Full costs for the pilot and the main
project are provided in the POM.
7.     Types of Activities: There will be two types of grants available, one focused on supporting the
core instructional process, and the other focused on supporting extra-curricular activities and the overall
school environment. Detailed criteria for evaluating both types of grants are available in the POM.
*   Activity Type I: School Improvement Schemes: Proposals submitted under Activity I should aim
to improve classroom teaching in a specific subject such as science or math, provide training for
teachers in a needed subject or skill area, or support an inter-disciplinary project - for example
links between the curriculum and the environment, local history, etc. No single grant for Activity I
will exceed US$ 10,000 equivalent although the amount of the total project may exceed this
maximum taking into account community contributions.
*   Activity Type Il: Special/Extra curricular activities: Proposals submitted under Activity II should
aim to improve school extra curricular activities, such as trips, clubs, sports, projects to improve
the school grounds, projects to involve the community in school activities, etc. No single grant for
Activity H will exceed US$ 2,000 equivalent although the amount of the total project may exceed
this maximum taking into account community contributions.
8.     Both types of grants will be subject to the following funding constraints in addition to the funding
maximums listed above. Construction, rehabilitation or equipping of facilities cannot be more than 40% of
the total grant amount. Parents and community members will also be requested to provide a 15%
contribution in time, labor or goods. In order to help schools identify sources of trainiing, the MoES will
begin to compile a list of training providers which will include universities, NGOs, and private providers.
The list will be provided in the school grants manual. Training providers will only be made ineligible to
provide training under the grants component on the basis of a written declaration of cause by the MoES.
Implementation Arrangements
9.     As mentioned above, a School Grants Coordinator located in the MoES will be primarily
responsible for organizing and coordinating all school grant activities including authorizing grant payments,
guiding technical assistance, managing the school development team, and publicizing the grants component.
The School Grants Coordinator will report to the head of the MoES' s education development section. The
coordinator will be supported by a small implementation unit to include a full-time senior administrative
assistant and a clerk/secretary.  For matters related to overall IDA credit management including
accounting, fund disbursement, procurement and reporting, the Coordinator will work closely with the PCU
Director and her staff. In particular, close collaboration will be required between the PCU accountant and
the school grants unit for the processing, payment and supervision of grant contracts (see steps for flow of
funds below). A complete terms of reference for the Coordinator and school grants staff is contained in the
POM. The project will finance small office equipment (photocopier, two computers, filing cabinets, and
basic furniture), vehicles for the unit and the regional teams, and operating costs of the unit related to
salaries, office materials, and travel.
10.    The sequence of steps for the flow of funds and accountability for the small grants is as follows:
- 36 -



a. Schools sign contracts with the MoES Grants Program Coordinator which designate schools as
accountable for funds and the products of the grant (school signatory usually School Director);
b. First tranche funding is sent to school accounts (90% from IDA, 10% from government
counterpart funding);
c. Schools utilize funds, send receipts and accounts to central Coordinating Unit, together with
mid-term report;
d. Accounts are reviewed by PCU accountant and second tranche funds are sent to schools (90%
from IDA, 10% from government counterpart funding); and
e. Schools account for funding and provide final report to school grants unit and the PCU.
11.    Under the IDA-financed project, IDA funds will flow from the IDA credit account at the MoES to
the school account and will be dispersed from this account on the signature of the school director and other
signatories as designated in a contract between the MoES and the school. Local contributions of 15% in
cash or in kind (labor, materials, technical support, etc.) will be encouraged, but not required. IDA funding
will cover 90% of grant expenditures, and 10% will be provided by the Governnent of Serbia in the formn
of counterpart funding. The first ten contracts will be reviewed by the Association prior to approval to
ensure that recipients fully understand the transparent contracting procedure. Given the nature and small
value of the School Grants, the procurement of goods and services would be implemented using
community-based purchasing procedures, described in the POM, which will, where practicable, be based
on three price quotations for all contracts. The capacity of schools to obtain three quotations will be
evaluated, and procedures adjusted as necessary, following the School Grants pilot.
Component Outputs
12.    The school grants component is expected to achieve the following outputs by the completion of the
project in summer 2005:
*   10,000 school and school board staff trained in analyzing school needs and putting together school
development plans
*   Staff of 700 schools (650 primary and 50 general secondary) trained in the development of
proposals and proposal writing
*   100 education system personnel able to develop criteria for and judge successful SDPs
*   Approximately 650 primary schools and 50 secondary schools provided with grants for school
based improvement activities
*   In-kind and cash resources as an indication of interest from communities in school activities
leveraged to 15% of all grant funds
*   Number of school board meetings held, types of decisions taken, satisfaction of board members on
survey.
Anticipated Outcomes
13.    The school grants component is expected to have achieved the following outcomes by the
completion of the project:
*   Improved ability of schools to design school development plans
*   School boards and parents more able to assist in defining school quality and providing support to
the principal and teaching staff
*   Teachers more able and willing to be flexible and inventive in teaching methods
*   Improved in-service training delivery capacity and utilization at the regional level
- 37 -



*   Improved teacher/student satisfaction with school life on survey
*   700 schools where the school environment has been significantly improved in terms of teacher
satisfaction, student attendance, and increased number of parent visits to the school
Project Component 2 - US$2.15 million
Standards and Assessment Development
Strategic Context
1.    Issues of effectiveness and quality in the education system are at the center of Serbia's present
education policy debate. The aim is to revitalize the education system so that it produces people who can
take responsibility for their own actions - including learning - and who do not merely absorb factual
knowledge but can apply, analyze and evaluate it in a range of unfamiliar circumstances. Therefore, the
focus of the present project is on (a) raising quality in Serbian education by setting standards that
encourage critical thinking skills in pupils of all abilities; (b) modernizing learner assessment, and using
results for evidence-based policy making; and (c) establishing a modem, credible national service for
standards, assessment and examinations, trusted by the public, employers and higher education institutions
within Serbia, in the European Union and beyond.
Objectives and Rationale
2.     The long term objective of this component is to raise standards in Serbian schools by developing a
valid, reliable, practical, and internationally recognized system for assessment and examinations. The
primary vehicle for achieving this objective will be the establishment of a sustainable ESAS. This Service
would undertake the following objectives and tasks:
*   help develop performance standards, in conjunction with the creation of a new national curriculum
framework for Serbia;
*   design and carry outformative, sample-based assessments at key stages of education (for example,
at grades 4 and 8), with results to be used as feedback to improve teaching and learning;
* provide analytical support to the MoES through reliable information about learner outcomes;
* develop materials (syllabuses, examples of questions and question papers, teacher support
materials, administrative handbooks etc.) for use in schools and in training courses;
*   train school psychologists, pedagogues and other appropriate school staff in the creation and use of
tests for reliable, validformative assessment of learners in the classroom;
* in the longer term, improve the faimess and technical quality of the secondary school entrance
examinations (grade 8/9) and upper secondary school-leaving examinations (Matura);
* gradually phase out unnecessary, "double" examinations (for example, Matura followed
immediately by university entrance exams); and
*   collaborate with other national and international institutions to raise standards in Serbian schools.
Outputs
3.     By the end of the project, the following will have been achieved, in order of priority:
* Assessment Service formally established, with adequate premises, staff, security, equipment,
software, books;
* Assessment Service staff trained to perform their assigned jobs;
- 38 -



*   Assessment standards set for all grades, based on curriculum objectives;
*   Sample-based national assessments done at specified key stages, according to high administrative
and logistical standards;
*   School psychologist/pedagogue and teacher training materials designed and field-tested, and a
cadre of trainers trained to help teachers improve their formative assessment of students' progress
in class;
*   Grade 8/9 selection examination modernization process started: present system  analyzed,
recommendations for change made to the MoES, standards set in core subjects, awareness training
of teachers conducted;
*   Matura modernization process started: syllabi for 4-6 core compulsory subjects written, specimen
papers prepared, awareness training for teachers conducted; and
*   Participation in OECD/PISA-Plus (and other international studies) continued, according to
international standards and timetables.
Project Description
The Education Standards and Assessment Service (ESAS)
4.     Under the project, a specialized technical unit for standards, assessment and examinations will be
established. Its legal status and degree of autonomy will need to be decided by the competent Serbian
authorities, but capacity building support can be provided by the project to a Service established within the
MoES prior to such institutional decisions. An acceptable level of independence from the Ministry's line
structure will be expected to ensure the Service's credibility as an objective evaluator of education quality.
The ESAS will be a professional unit, charged with production (design, pre-testing, and production) of test
instruments; administration and logistics of assessments and examinations; statistical processing and
analysis of results; technical support for and training of teachers, school directors, examiners, and local
authority staff; research and development in modem educational measurement; and regular provision of
outcome reports to policy makers in the MoES, as well as to all education stakeholders.
Structure, Staffing and Premises
5.     The following structure is proposed. An oversight Board will be required even if the assessment
service is not established as an autonomous agency:
ESAS SupervisorY Board
Goveming Board comprising representatives of key stakeholders e.g. MoES, key institutions of
Higher Education, teacher representatives, associate testing institutions, Testing Center for vocational
qualifications. The Director of the ESAS would serve as Secretary to the Board.
Role: policy formation, strategic planning, fund raising.
Education Standards and Assessment Service
Executive arm of the Board, comprising a Director and contracted management and staff (see
below).
Role: responsible for day to day operations of ESAS, including professional development and
administrative procedures, data processing and analysis, communications and financial management,
quality control of tests.
Subject Working Groups
Subject working groups and other employees contracted on a short-term basis.
- 39 -



Role: standards, assessment objectives and syllabus construction in relevant subjects by level; test design,
item writing, item review, test evaluation etc. as commissioned by the ESAS.
6.     Functionally, the ESAS will have a Director, to be appointed by the Goveming Board, and three
Heads of the following sections, to be hired by the Director:
*   A professional section consisting of a minimum of 5-7 subject specialists, each responsible for one
main curriculum area at all levels, both for school-based assessments at prinary level and for
external tests/exams at main points, e.g. grades 4, 8 and 12; the professional section would also be
responsible for preparing teachers' support materials, arranging teacher in-service training on
standards-based assessment, and setting up and maintaining an interactive web site for teachers
where they can download sample tests and contribute their own questions for possible use by
others;
*   An operational section consisting of a minimum of 2-3 people (one administrator responsible for
all logistics of all national tests/exams in all subjects; plus one production manager for the
production of question papers and teachers' guides etc.; plus one office manager/finance and
purchasing manager/printshop manager/packer/distribution/security officer); and
*   An information technology section consisting of a minimum of 2-3 people (one experienced
person to do all the analytical and statistical processing of exam results, and to assist with the
design of statistical sampling frames for pilot tests and national assessments; plus one or two
people for item banking, desktop publishing, and for regular computer support services to the
ESAS as a whole.
7.     In addition to management, the total minimal staff strength of the Service would be between 9 and
13 professionals, plus a modest number of support staff. Staff of the Service can be built up to full
strength over one to two years. The Director and key professional staff will be appointed and trained in
year one. By the end of year two, however, there should be a fully functioning Service capable of carrying
out the very demanding priority tasks set out above. It is important that specialized staff should be
assigned permanently and full-time to ESAS duties, although from time to time they may be involved in
other activities, e.g. training.
8.     The ESAS will also require adequate premises. It is not merely a set of offices, but rather a secure
production unit: therefore it will include: (1) its own permanently assigned accommodation that can be
closed off from unauthorized visitors; and (2) enough space to produce, store, despatch, and process
large-scale national assessments and "live" exams. This would include:
*   office space;
* computer room with air conditioning and uninterruptible power supply;
* meeting room for at least 20 people, to be used for secure examiners' meetings, staff meetings, and
small-group training sessions;
*   library-resource room;
*   confidential materials production (printing/copying) room, with room  for secure desktop
publishing, special equipment for producing illustrations and maps, a shredder, a fire-safe, and
enough working space to carry out trial experiments, proof reading of confidential materials etc.;
and
*   storage and dispatch room
9.     The Service will require furniture, books, resources, materials and a vehicle dedicated to ESAS
-40 -



travel, e.g. for training in the regions. In addition to salaries, recurrent funding will be required for travel
and subsistence for examiners; resources for producing pilot tests, support materials for districts and
teachers, and PR materials; and international memberships and subscriptions to journals.
Implementation Arrangements
10.   In response to these operational requirements for establishing the Service, the project will finance:
*   Training and study visits for key specialist and administrative/logistical ESAS staff.
*   Equipment, software, materials, books etc. for ESAS.
*   Support for the development and piloting/field testing of standards-linked external assessment
instruments at agreed levels in the education system: for example at grades 4, 8 and 12 in core
subjects).
*   Support for the national costs of OECD/PISA-Plus.
*   Technical assistance aimed at capacity building in assessments and large-scale assessment project
management.
11.    A detailed set of cost estimates has been prepared and included in the POM. The total estimated
cost of all priority tasks identified is US$ 2.15 million. It is expected that, during project implementation,
funding for some activities might be provided or co-financed by other donors, for example the joint
curriculum/standards development work or the international costs of participating in comparative studies
like OECD/PISA or TIMSS-R, in which case IDA funding would be reallocated to other spending needs
within the Service. A draft four year work program has also be appraised and included in the POM.
12.    All technical assistance and capital costs of the Service (including furniture and equipment) will be
procured by the PCU in cooperation with ESAS management. Operating support including salaries will be
paid by the PCU on a declining basis as with other operating support under the project. At present, the
MoES does not allocate any money specifically to leamer assessment, or to other quality monitoring
functions. Salaries are paid to Ministry and other staff in the regions (e.g., inspectorates) involved in
various types of external testing or exams. But, because these staff have a number of other duties in
addition to assessment, and because teachers mark papers in their own schools without additional payment,
the real costs of assessing pupils are hidden. As a result of this project support, the MoES will be able to
monitor transparently a large part of its financial commitment to examinations and assessment. The
government's annual contribution to the ESAS on an increasing basis throughout the life of the project will
represent the first dedicated budget contribution to the assessment function. By the end of the project, the
total of the ESAS's operations will be fully taken on by the government budget. The ESAS's estimated
annual operating budget of approximately US$ 300,000 per year represents less than one tenth of one
percent of the Governments approximately US$ 635 million annual budget for education.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.66 million
Education Information System
Objectives and Rationale
1.     The objective of this component is to promote effective management of resources and monitoring
of performance in Serbia's education system through improved information systems. The project will
support this objective by funding the establishment of a computerized education information system and
related management training programs, as well as developing a capacity for formula-based funding at the
- 41 -



central level and providing for the piloting of block grant funding in selected pilot municipalities. Pilots
will be implemented concurrent with the implementation of EIS installations at the municipal and school
levels.
2.     Specifically the project will:
* determine essential education data needs at the school level and education statistical information
needs at the municipality, regional and central levels;
* develop the initial core set of computer software modules covering the basic data collection,
collation and report generation in schools and the aggregation of the same data at the municipality
and ministry levels;
* strengthen the system platforms (hardware) of the municipalities and regional offices of the MoES;
* develop benchmark standards for the development and implementation of future software modules;
*   train school directors, school secretaries, and municipality and ministry staff to effectively use the
tools of the initial set of EIS modules in terms of performance monitoring and decision making, as
well as manipulation of the new software; and
*   develop an analytical framework based on per pupil-based funding to be implemented by central
and potentially municipal funding authorities, potentially combined with block grant funding pilots
in select municipalities.
3.     The development of the initial set of EIS modules will support the basic aggregate information
needs of schools, municipalities, regions and ministries and begin the process of information management
for effective resource use and policy formation. A series of performance indicators will be developed to
assist in monitoring and decision-making at each level. It is not expected that the component will produce
complete personnel or student data bases in which electronic files are created for each education employee
or student, although planning for more comprehensive data bases will be an outcome. In the interest of
transparency and public accountability, certain aggregate data are expected to be made available to the
public.
4.     The development of a per pupil funding system will establish a set of financial processes and
procedures that enable the MoES to:
* establish a stable and transparent financial framework;
* allocate resources in an equitable and efficient manner to support the maximization of the learning
opportunities of all children; and
*   support the related goals of developing greater municipality and school autonomy and community
participation within a decentralized governance education structure.
Outputs
5.     By the end of this component of the project, the following will have been achieved:
*   the identification, design, program testing and distribution of an education information system for
primary and secondary schools;
* the implementation of an approved design for a financial accounting system for the compulsory
school sector;
* key stakeholders able to effectively use the tools of the initial set of EIS modules for performance
monitoring and resource allocation and accountability reporting;
*   the development of a per-pupil based funding system for the primary and secondary school
- 42 -



education sector; and
*   potentially the successful implementation of a block grant funding system in a series of pilot
municipalities.
Strategic Context
6.     The information systems component will support the development of a decentralized governance
and management structure for education at all levels. Although it will provide for software development
and some hardware, its main aim will be to give stakeholders the information they need to:
*   use indicators to evaluate the performance of their schools/pupils in comparison with other areas of
Serbia;
*   more effectively plan, budget, manage and monitor education services within municipalities and in
schools;
*   build stronger partnerships at the municipality and school levels to improve school operations and
the monitoring of service delivery and outputs;
*   manage resources according to school and community needs and outcomes;
*   increase flexibility in decision-making at the local level; and
*   apply lessons from practice to improve policy decisions.
7.     The component will consist of central, municipality and school-level capacity-building training and
development programs, based on specific needs assessments, and delivered in-country. The training will
help to strengthen the capacity of central and municipal authorities to gather and use information to
promote better management and financial decision-making. All training programs will be designed,
delivered, supervised and evaluated by local institutions, supported by short term international specialists
with experience in decentralized management and quality assurance in a decentralized system.
8.     A series of educational and financial viability categories of performance have been identified See
Annex I for a detailed description to promote effective decision-making, as follows:
*   Macro Environment
*   Access and Student Welfare
*   Governance/Management
*   School/Community Relationships
*   Quality of Learning
Financial indicators are divided into the following two categories:
*   Operations
*   Ratios
9.     In addition to the MoES, there are three target groups for training and development in the context
of decentralization:
*   Schools. There is a need to foster school autonomy and strengthen school-based management
capacity by training school directors and school boards, through workshops and job-specific
exercises, in selected management and evaluation skills.
*   Community. The newly constituted school boards are essential links between the school and its
community. There is a need to work with these groups to develop their capacity to participate in
school affairs, as effective democratic institutions. The chair of the school board will be targeted
for training.
- 43 -



*   Municipal Offices. These offices will require assistance to further develop their capacity to plan
and manage local education programs; provide administrative, financial, and technical support for
those programs; and to monitor and evaluate the implementation of central and local education
policies. The manager and one senior officer from each of these offices will be targeted for
training.
10.    Training and workshop activities will focus on:
* Capacity Needs Analysis to give information to the trainers and participants about the current
status, expectations and the way forward
* Management and Evaluation at all levels
* Strategic Planning
* Resource Management
* Financial Systems
* Information Systems
* Community Participation
Program Description
11.   The information systems component is organized into two sub-components:
* the development and implementation of the initial modules of the EIS software; and
* the development and delivery of management and performance evaluation training in information
systems for various local stakeholders (school board chairs, school principals, school accountants,
etc).
12.   The project will finance a single technical assistance and training contract for both
sub-components, as well as a limited amount of hardware. Hardware will be procured for municipalities.
Schools and municipalities would be expected to provide computerized data entry depending on the local
availability of standard PCs. The EIS will be designed in such a way that data can be transmitted and
entered in hard copy if necessary. However, most schools and municipalities in Serbia now possess
EIS-compatible PCs. Summary descriptions of the two sub-components are provided below, and TOR,
costing and implementation plans will be provided in the POM.
Sub-component 1: Software Development
13.    The software development will be carried out on the basis of the following principles:
* full consultation in the determination of the essential education indicators and financial data to be
captured and the type and format of the reports to be generated;
* a design which recognizes current regional, municipality and school computer hardware and
technical expertise levels and capacity;
* a design with the capacity and flexibility to respond to changing requirements resulting from
review and evaluation;
* a configuration which is based on a phased approach in which this is the first of a series of
compatible software modules to be developed and integrated over time; and
*   a capability to import data from other established databases and export data in conventional
formats including eventual email transmission.
- 44 -



Software Modules to be Developed
14.   The functions to be computerized in the initial EIS modules are:
*   basic student, personnel, and inventory databases;
*   standard financial transaction recording, accounting and financial reporting;
*   aggregation of student, personnel, inventory, and financial data from schools at the municipality,
regional and central levels;
*   reporting on a series of educational and financial performance indicators; and
*   development of a per student funding formula model for the central MoES
15.   In order to computerize the functions presented above, a series of five software modules are
proposed:
Module 1: Student database
Module 2: School personnel database
Module 3: Inventory and Rooms database
Module 4: Financial module: education accounting
Module 5: Per Student Funding Formula
16.   Each module, with the exception of the per student funding formula, will have two components:
a. School level component, and
b. Other levels component.
The school component will mainly support the transaction processing level in schools, but will also
include some elements of aggregated data view (reporting and analysis) for school management support.
The "other levels component" will contain an aggregated data view per school and the macro-aggregation
of all schools or selected groups of schools, for example by municipality, region or other selected criteria.
There are multiple data export and import requirements between modules. The basic definitions of modules
for schools and other levels are shown in the table below. Full definitions will be provided in the POM.
Module                    School Component         Other Levels Component
Module 1: Student database  Input and basic reporting on  Aggregated view of the same data
student data relevant to  from schools. The basis for
school management         different kinds of statistical
analyses.
Module 2: School Personnel  Input and basic reporting
database                  about school personnel
Module 3: Inventory and  Input and basic reporting on
Rooms database            school inventory and rooms.
Module 4: Financial module  Input of employment data.
Produces reports. The
complete support for all
accounting activities in a
school. Format according to
Treasury Guidelines. Some
of the input automated from
- 45 -



Module 3.
Module 5: Funding formula                           Analytical framework for justifying
and allocation public resources for
education
Data Input Requirements
17.    Data input at the other levels will depend on the computer capacity of schools. Some schools will
not have computers at all and will provide data on paper, in an agreed format, some will have only one
small PC, and some will have small Windows based LAN and will provide input by floppy disk or file
transfer. The input system should be designed in such way that all schools can provide input data. This
means that various data inputs should be implemented. The following specifications should be included in
future system architecture:
a)     School components of the modules 1, 2 and 3
These modules are the basis for data input. This data input should be implemented as the standard
keyboard based data input.
b)     School components of modules 4
This data input should be implemented also as the standard keyboard based data input.
c)     Future School Performance Monitoring Modules
These modules will import data from other implemented modules.
d)     Other Levels components of modules 1, 2,3, and 4
These modules import aggregated data from their school counterparts. Since the connection
between schools and the other levels will not be through an intranet, the import cannot occur through the
common usage of the same database. Each will maintain its own database. The input for these modules
should be implemented through both of the following two features:
*   The manual, keyboard based input of data from schools that do not have the counterpart module
implemented (the data will be provided on specifically designed paper forms); and
*   Import of data from the file from schools that have the counterpart module implemented. This
module will export aggregated data into the file.
Data Transfer Requirements
18.    The precise and simple definition of data exchange is a critical success factor of the system. (This
will be one of the key criteria for evaluating the system architecture proposals.) Data transfer definition
specifications include:
a)     Transaction data exchange in a school.
- 46 -



This data transfer should be implemented as the on-line data flow between modules. It should
function on small Windows based LAN as the system platform. Depending on the system architecture, this
data flow can be avoided and implemented as the common database usage by modules. In that case those
data flows will be seen as the logical data flows, and they will not exist physically.
b)     Export of data in a school component of Performance Monitoring Module.
There should be two alternatives for this data transfer:
*   If the modules can use the same database (through network), data export will be implemented as
data extracting from the common database.
*   If the modules cannot use the same database (installed on different computers which are not
networked), data export will be implemented as export-to-file and import-from-file features. Files
will be transferred by floppies.
c)     Export of aggregated data from school to other levels.
This data transfer should be possible in three ways:
*   Some aggregated school data will be given in paper format and sent to the other levels. Data will
be manually entered into the system by that level.
*   Some aggregated school data will be exported to files that will be transferred to the other levels on
floppies.
* Some schools will have the opportunity to transfer the exported files by modem file transfer.
19.    All data transfer protocols will need to be precisely defined. The structures of data packages that
are transferred will also need to be precisely defined in a structured manner.
Common Coding System
20.    The Common Coding System (CCS) is the technical precondition to common data usage. In this
system, every entity will have its unique identifier (ministry, regions, municipalities, schools, etc), so every
data item can be uniquely identified in terms of relation and ownership. The acceptable system architecture
will rely on a sustainable CCS that includes:
*   Algorithms and procedures for coding of all system entities to preserve the uniqueness of an entity
identification at every period of time.
*   Definitions and structures of basic coding data which precisely define basic entities to be coded.
The definitions will match or at the very least be consistent with the official coding systems used
by the Bureau for Statistics.
*   Coded basic data, transferred, wherever possible, from official databases of the Bureau for
Statistics.
*   Sustainable  procedures for coded  data maintenance, which  include precisely  defined
responsibilities for regular data update.
Operational Requirements
21.    Design of the above software, as well as software to be designed for the funding formula in
sub-component 4 below, will be based on the following operational requirements:
*   Windows 95,98, 2000 or NT, to run database, reporting and user interface requirements in a single
or multi-user stand alone situation
-47 -



*   Windows 95,98,2000 or NT, to run front end screens with a host or server in a multi-user LAN
situation
* MS licensing implications determined
* Import capability from defined existing databases
*   E-mail software specifications for e-mailing direct from the software or as a separate program,
*   Backup and data restore on diskette provided for with the assurance of disk spanning across
multiple volumes
* A workstation or server to meet the specifications for MS
*   The required modem for email connection or altemative paper format entry forms at the school
level for municipality input
The System Platform
22.    The system platform on which the initial EIS will function is defined as follows:
* PC workstation or simple, small and IBM compatible PC based local area network;
* NT Domain Networking;
* Database Server under Win NT Server
* FTP Server under Win NT Server
* PC Workstations under Win NT Workstation
* PC Workstations in schools
* Standard 56k modem connection between schools and FTP Server;
* NetBEUI and TCP/IP protocols; and
*   Three possibilities in schools: (i) no computers at all, (ii) stand-alone one or few computers, and
(iii) small NetBEUI/Windows based LAN.
23.    About 180 PC workstations and related equipment will be purchased to support each of the three
sub-components under the Information and Financial Systems component for the central level and
municipalities, but not for schools. The hardware, OS and system software have been specified and will be
included in the POM.
Sub-component 2: Management and Performance Monitoring Training
24.    The management and performance monitoring training program will train key stakeholders to
effectively use the tools of the initial set of EIS modules in terms of performance monitoring and decision
making, as well as manipulation of the new software. Training will be provided to ministry and
municipality officials, school directors and school accountants in the context of 3 day workshops. It is
expected that the total number of participants will be 4,500, based on three participants from each school,
regional and municipality offices Serbia-wide over the life of the project. A particular focus will be placed
on training stakeholders in the uses of comparative indictors of system, school and student performance.
25.    Although a new funding mechanism for education has yet to be put in place, provision will be made
to finance small municipal-based block grant pilots. These pilots would entail a small amount of design
work which would be financed under the decentralization component. Capacity building training would be
merged with the management and performance monitoring training proposed below.
26.    The required professional training services can be described in five outputs. The outputs include:
Output one     The development of the training program (95 staff/days).
-48 -



Output two     The coordination and administration of the training program (470 staff/days).
Output three   The delivery of the training program (1600 staff/days).
Output four    The production of evaluation reports (100 staff/days)
Output five    The production of a complete training manual (40 staff/days)
The output objectives for each of the above outputs with associated expected performance
measures and targets will be included in the POM.
Development and Implementation Strategy
27.    A number of approaches and assumptions are made in estimating the consultancy time associated
with the processes described in the task schedule. These are:
*   Where local designer, analyst, programmer and training expertise can be identified, local
consultants (or local sub-contractors) should be engaged in the development and delivery process.
*   It is assumed that the detailed systems analysis will be undertaken in the field in close consultation
with the relevant stakeholders.
*   The installation of the software at other levels of education will be on the site of each office.
*   The installation of the software in the schools will depend on the technology and technical capacity
of a school. It is expected that user technical training in the installation and application of the
software will be in identified key schools, each with a local cluster of schools invited to observe
and participate.
*   An on-call help service is expected to complement the school installation process.
*   It is assumed that the technical training will be provided by local consultants.
28.    A separate training program and dedicated technical assistance will be developed for central MoES
staff as well as selected staff from the Ministry of Finance on the application of the per student funding
formula approach. The training will focus on the use of information and performance indicators to justify
budgetary funding requests for education, as well as to allocate funding across the various types of
expenditure (personnel, non-salary operating costs, educational inputs, capital investments, etc) and across
various governance levels (central, regional, municipal, school). The underpinning principle of analysis
will be to set the base unit of comparison and analysis as the number of students in the system.
29.    The coordination and management of the EIS Project component will be undertaken by the MoES
which will establish a Coordination Unit. An EIS Coordinator will be appointed to manage the project. A
Coordination Group representing key stakeholders will be established to provide advice and guidance to the
project. This group will be a consultative group of key stakeholders of five or six members. A technical
adviser will also be appointed to the group. The group will have a advisory role and will support the
underpinning principles of the project and its implementation by:
*   providing advice, guidance and recommendations to the software developer about information
requirements, the pilot phase and the wider implementation of the system;
*   providing advice and guidance to the training provider about the training phase;
*   participating in programs to further develop their knowledge and understandings of information
systems and the use of information for decision-making;
*   promoting the concepts and implementation of the EIS; and
*   reviewing and evaluating program development and implementation and suggesting action arising
from the reviews.
-49-



Project Component 4 - US$1.10 million
Education Decentralization
Strategic Context
1.     Three principal institutions are currently involved in education decision making in Serbia: (a) the
Central Government through its national and regional offices of the MoES; (b) the municipalities; and (c)
the schools and their school boards. While the powers of the sub-national authorities are strictly limited at
present, the current lack of capacities at both the sub-national and national levels constrain the effective
roles of municipalities and schools in governance and management. School directors, who are responsible
for day to day leadership and management of the school, as well as for preparing the School Development
Plan (SDP), receive no special training and have very limited and uneven capacity to lead and manage
schools. Similarly, school boards receive no guidance and training and, thus, are by and large unable to
exercise even their limited authority. Municipalities, also, vary widely in terms of their support for
primary-secondary education, and they receive almost no guidance or training in how to carry out their
infrastructure maintenance, transportation, and student aid functions. Finally, the Central Government also
lacks capacity to carry out its role in supporting and facilitating governance and management at the
sub-national level. It provides very little information to municipalities and schools on the relative
performance of students in their jurisdictions. Its school inspectors receive no training and provide little
guidance and assistance to schools and municipalities to ensure they effectively carry out their functions. It
also, by and large, lacks policies and modern mechanisms to stimulate effective governance and
management and to ensure equity across municipalities.
2.     The Education Decentralization component of the project would begin to address the inadequate
capacities of schools, municipalities, and the central govemment to carry out their functions in a
decentralized educational system. The importance of improving these capacities is all the greater given
current discussions by Serbian authorities to significantly increase the powers of sub-national authorities in
the near future. Proposed changes in the laws of local self government and primary and secondary
education would strengthen the roles of both municipalities and schools boards. Should these legal changes
occur, their effects on the behaviors of sub-national authorities will be seriously constrained by the very
limited capacity of those authorities. While the Education Decentralization component would provide
specialized training to improve govemance and management, other components of the project would
compliment this support and further build capacity for decentralized management by creating expertise in
school-level strategic planning (the School Improvement Grants component), by providing knowledge on
school and student performance (the Standards and Assessment Development component), and by
generating the detailed information base required for decisions at all levels of government (the Education
Information System Component).
Education Decentralization Objective
3.     The overall objective of the Education Decentralization component of the project is to strengthen
govemance and management capacity in primary and secondary education. Strengthened capacity would
improve the overall performance of the existing system, and improve equity by reducing variance in
capacity across schools and municipalities. Strengthened capacity would also increase the probability that
future legal changes granting increased govemance and management powers to schools, school boards, and
municipalities would be quickly implemented.
4.     The specific objectives of this component are as follows: (a) to strengthen the capacity of
municipalities to assess the educational needs under their responsibility, especially infrastructure,
- 50 -



maintenance, and transportation, and to provide logistical and other support to schools located within the
municipality; (b) to improve the capacity of school directors to manage schools and to work effectively
with other actors, especially the school board and the municipality; and (c) to strengthen the role of the
MoES, and its school inspectors, in supporting the improvement of the management, governance, and
performance of primary and secondary education.
5.     The component will comprise two basic sets of activities: (I) support for needs assessment,
institutional design and capacity building at local levels, and (2) support for institutional assessment and
capacity building for monitoring and evaluation at the central MoES. These activities will infonn
education decision makers of the implications of European experience for Serbia and, thus, help refine
capacity building goals; will assess existing capacity and capacity building needs; will design and deliver
training to municipal officials, directors, school board members, and school inspectors; will monitor and
provide information to the Government on the implementation of decentralization policies and programs;
and will strengthen the MoES in its capacity to identify and analyze problems in sector management and to
report on performance at the municipal and school levels. These latter two activities are designed to
shorten the feedback loop and speed up institutional learning as to how best to govern and manage
decentralized education in Serbia.
Project Outputs
6.     The Education Decentralization component is expected to produce the following outputs over the
period of the project:
*   approximately 870 municipal officials and over 14,000 school directors and staff, members of
school boards, and school inspectors will be trained in school governance and management;
*   guides on school governance and management will be written, printed, and distributed to teachers,
directors, board members, inspectors and municipal officials;
*   annual report cards on educational performance will be provided to municipalities in Serbia
beginning in 2003;
*   four surveys will be carried out by the MoES to assess the opinions and views of beneficiaries
(parents), teachers, directors, and board members; and
*   four studies of education governance and management will be carried out to inform central
government decisions, beginning with a study of municipal finance and resource allocation in the
education sector.
Anticipated Outcomes
7.     The Education Decentralization component is expected to attain the following outcomes by the
closing date of the project:
Outcome                          Indicator                     Source of Information
Municipalities analyze educational  Increased average percent of  Government expenditure
needs, set municipal priorities, and  municipal revenues allocated to  accounts.
adopt municipal education support  schools and reduced variance.
plans.
School directors provide more active  Increased percentage of teachers  Semi-annual surveys carried
school leadership and encourage  reporting involvement in       out by an independent survey
teacher participation in preparing  preparing the SDP.          firm.
- 51 -



School Development Plans.
The quality of School Development  Index of quality of SDP.     External evaluation of
Plans improves.                                                 random sample of SDPs,
done annually.
School boards become more proactive  Index of responses.        Semi-annual surveys of
in school level reform.                                         teachers and directors;
reports from inspectors.
School inspectors provide more and  Index of responses.         Semi-annual surveys of
better advice on governance and                                 principals and school
management.                                                     councils.
Improvement in the quantity and   Opinion of senior management of  Interviews; surveys;
quality of technical advice and   MoES; public opinion; level of  technical quality of reporting
technical reporting of the MoES.  detail and sophistication of
reporting including municipal
report cards
Project Description
(1) Building Local Capacity
8.     Local school management responsibilities are shared between the municipality, the school director,
and the school board. Each of these actors has serious deficiencies in capacity to manage their
responsibilities, and possible, future decentralization to increase their responsibilities would further
exacerbate the situation.
*   Municipalities have recently be assigned significantly increased revenues for all municipal
responsibilities including education. Although it is currently poorly defined in the new local
self-government law, it is likely that municipalities will take on increased responsibilities for the
direct provision and quality control of education, in addition to their traditional responsibilities for
school renovation and maintenance, student transportation, and subsidized textbooks for needy
students. However, municipalities vary widely in terms of both their commitment to education and
their capacity to finance and manage it.
*   School directors need skills to lead and manage schools and to work collaboratively with school
boards and municipalities. At present school directors receive no special training in educational
administration, and, in fact, no such training is currently available within Serbia.
*   School boards play an important role in developing community consensus around school priorities
and, should anticipated legislative amendments be adopted, will in the future play a much stronger
role in ensuring accountability through their role in selecting school directors. School boards can
facilitate school level reform, but they can also create unproductive conflict with directors and
teachers. At present, school board members receive no training in how to carry out their role, or
even in the substance of what they are supposed to govem.
9.     This activity will begin with the selection of a firm to assist the MoES to design and carry out
needs assessments for the various levels above; write and distribute operating manuals; and design and,
later, evaluate training programs. An intemational consultant will also be hired on a long term basis (see
- 52 -



the MoES capacity building sub-component below) to help periodically supervise the work of the
consultants together with a Training Coordinator for this component. The needs assessments will identify
the gaps between the skills that directors, school boards, and municipalities need and those that they
currently have. Among other things, these needs assessments will examine what skills are required to
produce high quality School Development Plans. Three operating manuals will be produced describing (a)
how a school director should manage a school in Serbia; (b) what are the roles and responsibilities of
school board members and how they should be carried out; and (c) how municipalities should manage their
educational responsibilities. Based on the needs assessments, short-term (2-3 day) flexible and interactive
training programs will be designed for school directors, school boards, and municipal officials.
10.    A training firm would be contracted to deliver the training programs, beginning in year two of the
project, to municipal officials, school directors, and school board members. Training would be delivered to
all primary and secondary school directors and to approximately half the school board members in each
region of the country during each of the final three years of the project. Part of the rationale for repeated
training is turnover in directors and school board members. At the end of each year's training, the course
will be evaluated. The design and content of each subsequent year's training will be modified, taking into
account the previous year's evaluation, policy changes affecting school management, and newly emerging
issues. The changes in content combined with an interactive instructional style that facilitates the exchange
of experience should help to ensure that the training has high value-added for directors and school board
members repeating the course. School inspectors will also participate in each year's training.
11.    Since other donor organizations are initiating work to improve municipal management more
generally, the delivery of the training at the municipal level would be done in close collaboration with those
organizations. The needs assessment would be closely coordinated with a study of municipal education
finance to be carried out under another activity.
(2) Building MoES Capacity
12.    The MoES is responsible for proposing and defending policy reforms; for preparing and justifying
budgets; for learning what works well and what does not; and for expressing opinions and arguing for the
sector concerning possible legislation and policy changes which affect education. It does not currently have
the knowledge, information, and technical capacity to carry out these functions. This activity would aim to
(a) improve knowledge on specific, high priority policy issues; and (b) ensure the provision of objective,
unfiltered feedback on the status of educational management and decentralization in Serbia.
13.    MoES senior management recognizes the weak analytic and technical capacity of current Ministry
staff and the importance of strengthening its monitoring and evaluation capacity in the context of Serbia's
decentralized system. The MoES is already in the process of hiring more qualified staff for its Policy and
Evaluation Section, to which the project will also contribute external expertise. An individual consultant
will be contracted on a part time basis to (a) assess the MoES's policy and analytical capacity and to
provide on-the-job training to new and junior staff; (b) to provide technical feedback on behalf of the MoES
on the needs assessment, manual design and training program design in the local capacity building
sub-component; (c) to help organize various studies, surveys, and study tours to be financed under the
project (see below); and (d) to lead an initiative to development municipal report cards which will allow the
MoES to monitor performance and commitment to education in Serbia's municipalities and to report to the
public annually on how each municipality is meeting its responsibilities in education. This latter activity
will make use of information both from the EIS and from the surveys (described below). Detailed TOR for
this support are included in the POM. Provisional financing has also been included to hire a local
consultant, for whom terms of reference will be designed by the primary consultant above.
- 53 -



14.   Improvements in knowledge will take several additional forms in addition to the above including
study tours to European countries, creation of periodic monitoring surveys, and studies on topics of special
importance. The MoES's intemational consultant expert on school governance and management in Europe
will also design a study tour for a small, ad hoc working group of teachers, directors, inspectors, and
municipal officials to be appointed by the Minister of Education. The consultant will organize and
accompany travel to European countries to observe school govemance and management and to discuss with
experts the advantages and disadvantages of each system. Upon returning to Serbia, the working group
(with continued participation of the consultant) will be responsible for producing a public report on its
findings, including a description of each country's arrangements for governing and managing schools, and
an evaluation of each in the Serbian context. The report will be made available to the general public, and
the findings will be presented to the MoES senior management.
15.    Periodic monitoring surveys will help the MoES to identify what works well and what does not in
educational management at the local level. Since the arrangements for delivering public education in Serbia
are currently in a state of flux and may change rapidly in the future, it is important for the MoES to collect
as much feedback as possible from stakeholders. This activity will survey parents, teachers, school
directors, and school board members to measure and monitor changes in school governance and
management. Samples will be drawn to permit reliable comparisons between regions, between small and
large municipalities, etc., and the cross-tabulated results will be publicly available. A local survey firm
will be contracted to carry out a baseline survey as soon as possible after project effectiveness, and after
that surveys will be carried out every year for the life of the project.
16.   In addition to improved knowledge of international experience and information on Serbian
decentralization experience, the Ministry is in need of in-depth studies most appropriately carried out by
specialists located outside the Ministry itself. The project will support carrying out four studies on the
following topics: (a) municipal education finance and expenditure; (b) educational norms and their impact
on efficiency and equity; (c) transfer of ownership of public schools to municipalities; and (d) transferring
of republic financing to municipalities to pay teachers salaries.
Implementation Arrangements
17.    As mentioned above, the MoES's policy and evaluation section will have primary responsibility for
this component, and will use consultant services to conduct analysis and organize activities, as well as
directly deliver training. The MoES will also appoint a Training Coordinator, to be located in the Teacher
Training section of the MoES, to coordinate and oversee all local training activities in the local capacity
building sub-component. International and local consultants hired under the project will report to the head
of the policy and evaluation unit. Two long term individual consultants, one external and one local, and up
to four short term individual consultants (for the four studies) will be hired under the component. In
addition, three consulting firms would be hired with project financing: (1) a firm to carry out the needs
assessment, write manuals, and design training programs; (2) a firm to deliver the training program over a
three year period; and (3) a firm to carry out surveys of directors, teachers, parents, and school board
members over a three year period. The four studies are expected to be undertaken for an amount under
$25,000 for each study.
- 54 -



Project Component 5 - US$0.60 million
Project Management
1.     Project implementation will be coordinated by a PCU located in the MoES. The PCU will employ
a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Officer, a Disbursement Officer, and a bilingual Project
Assistant/Translator. In addition, the MoES has appointed Coordinators for each of the substantive project
components: the school grants, and the components for information systems, assessments, and
decentralization. The School Grants Coordinator will be located in the MoES's development section and
will also have a dedicated assistant due to the heavy logistical workload of managing many small grants.
The EIS Coordinator, an expert hired externally on a consultant contract, will be assigned as acting head of
the MoES's policy and evaluation section; the Training Coordinator for the Decentralization component
will be assigned to the MoES's teacher training section; and, finally, a Director for the assessment service
will be identified externally and appointed With the exception of the EIS and the assessment service, all
coordinators are existing staff of the Ministry, but will be re-assigned to full time work under the project.
Position descriptions have been drafted for all PCU and coordinator positions and will be included in the
POM.
2.     The project will finance, on a declining basis, PCU staff salaries as well as the basic operating
expenditures of the PCU, including recurrent office expenditures, vehicle operation and maintenance costs,
and travel and subsistence. All PCU costs are expected to be covered 50% by government counterpart
funding throughout the life of the project. PCU salaries will not exceed salary rates currently established in
the MoES. The PCU Director will be paid at a Deputy Minister level. Small amounts of office equipment
will also be funded under the project to support the PCU.
3.     Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation, which had been located in the PCU in previous
versions of the project, has been shifted to the Education Decentralization and to the School Improvement
Grants components.
- 55 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Local        Foreign       T otaI
Project Cost By Component                 US $million  US $million   U9 $rWIlliol.
School Improvement Grants                                  5.19          0.35         5.54
Standards and Assessments Development                      1.26          0.80         2.06
Education Information System                               0.30          2.26         2.56
Education Decentalization                                  0.33          0.70         1.03
Project Management                                         0.49          0.00         0.49
Total Baseline Cost                                        7.57          4.11        11.68
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.49          0.00         0.49
Total Project Costs               8.06          4.11         12.17
Total Financing Required               8.06          4.11         12.17
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million   US $mlI1o,.
Goods                                                   .    0.41          0.53          0.94
School Grants                                                4.98          0.00          4.98
Services                                                     1.17          3.45          4.62
Training                                                     0.17          0.13          0.30
Recurrent Costs                                              1.33          0.00          1.33
Total Project Costs       8.06          4.11         12.17
Total Financing Required       8.06          4.11         12.17
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.8 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 10.37 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 96.43% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 56 -



Annex 4:Economic Analysis
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated  2001  recurrent expenditures  on  primary  education  from  all financing
sources-Republic, municipal, and school own-source revenues-is 12.9 billion dinar, or US$ 257 per
pupil.  This figure includes systemwide administrative costs, in addition to classroom and school
administration costs. Municipal recurrent expenditures per pupil represent an estimated 19% of the total, or
US$ 48 per student. The similar, estimated 2001 recurrent expenditure per secondary school student is 6.6
billion dinar, or US$ 300 per pupil. Of this amount, also, about 20 percent is financed by the municipality,
or US$ 60 per pupil. Precise figures are not available, but the Ministry of Finance estimates that half of
municipal education spending is for utilities, and at most half is for school supplies and the types of
investments that Project grants will also help finance through the school development projects.
The school grants financed under the Project are US$ 5 million over four years. On an annual
basis, they represent about 0.3 % of total primary-secondary education spending. However, a large
percentage (74%) of Republic spending is for salaries, and municipalities finance most school supplies,
utilities,and renovations. If one assumes that half of municipal spending is allocated to utilities, the total
school grants represent 4.5% of municipal non-utility spending. However, only 225 schools of the total
universe of 1382 schools will receive project grants annually. For those schools, project financing will
represent a significant addition to municipal financing for school inputs-an estimated 28 percent increase
on average.
Municipal and Republic financing does not provide funding which schools may use as they wish to
support their school development plans. The only source of such financing-funding over which the school
director and school board have complete control-at present is revenues generated by the school itself. In
2001, these revenues averaged US$ 13 per pupil in primary and secondary schools. In those schools
receiving project grants, the grants will represent at least a 54% increase in funding which it can itself
control, a significant incentive to the school community.
The school grants are expected to improve efficiency of resource use in primary and secondary
schools by strengthening local capacity and by providing essential inputs not currently financed through
municipal or Republic budgets. The potential efficiency gains need not be large to generate positive net
benefits from the school grants. The additional school outputs or resource savings resulting from the
school grants need only equal a discounted US$ 5 million over time. Even assuming that all benefits from
the school grants accrue in the same year the additional funding is disbursed, the benefits need only be
equivalent to 0.3 percent of total primary-secondary education spending. Calculated for the individual
school receiving the grant, the required benefits are higher (about 10%) if all benefits accrue only to the
individual school. Since the project anticipates positive extemalities from the school grant program, the
estimate of 0.3% required efficiency gain is more accurate.
- 57 -



2001 Executed Budget for Education in Serbia
in billions of Yugoslav Dinars (1 USD = 65 YUD)
Primary  Secondary  Higher
Recurrent Expenditure        12.89     6.55      4.17
of which
Grants from municipalities  2.42     1.30
Schools own revenue     0.59     0.38     0.83
Republic budget    9.88      4.87     3.34
Capital Expenditure           0.56     0.24      0.00
of which
Grants from municipalities  0.42     0.20
Republic budget    0.14      0.04     0.00
Pupil Standard (subsidies)                                0.90
Total MoES Spending          13.45     6.79      4.17    25.31
- 58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
4
i ~~~- '"MFv.... ,- . MLEM0FNlA::ON kLRWj1)
Year I     Year2          3 Year3  Yaar4  I Year 5  Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.3        3.3       2.6        2.3       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.4        0.5       0.5        0.3       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          2.7        3.8       3.1        2.6       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               2.7        3.8       3.1        2.6       0.0        0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   2.2        3.1       2.5        2.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                 0.5        0.7       0.6        0.4       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     2.7        3.8        3.1       2.6        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 59 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Project Structure
The total value of the Education Improvement Project is US$ 12.17 million, of which the IDA
Credit will finance US$ 10.0. Project implementation will be coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) located in the Ministry of Education and Sports (MoES). Traditional project procurement activity
in this project is somewhat limited since a little less than half of the IDA contribution (US$ 4.5 million) will
be disbursed through a School Grants mechanism which will be implemented using community-based
procurement procedures. There will be two types of Grants available: (i) School Improvement Schemes
(Type I), and (ii) Special / Extra-Curricular Activities (Type II) which will include beneficiary/community
participatory contributions. Sub-grant agreements between the MoES/ PCU and the individual school will
be standardized, with sample procedures defining implementation and procurement requirements, and
included in the Association-approved POM. The POM will also include pretested criteria and guidelines
for the review and selection of grant awards. Other expenditures financed by the IDA Credit will include:
equipment and materials (US$ 0.91 million), consultant services (US$ 3.61 million), training and technical
services (US$ 0.30 million) and incremental operating costs (US$ 1.33 million of which IDA will finance
US$ 0.70 million).
Procurement Implementation
Procurement activities will be administered by the MoES/PCU, which will also oversee, on a
sampling basis, the community-based procurements effected within the School Improvement Grants.
IDA-financed procurements of goods will be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consulting services and training shall be
procured in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
Goods required under operating expenses will be procured by obtaining three competitive quotations, based
on National Shopping. School Grants-financed procurements will be conducted as described below. The
Association's and/or ECA Region's standard/small-value bidding and contracting documentation will be
included in the POM, and would be utilized for the procurement of IDA-financed goods and consultants
services. Project procurement activities have been advertised under a General Procurement Notice
publishsed in the U.N. Development Business. Annual Updates thereof and Specific Procurement Notices
will be advertized in Development Business and, as appropriate, in suitable international and national
publications. A MoES/PCU procurement capacity development action plan, which will include appropriate
training activities for the MoES/PCU Procurement Specialist, will be agreed with the Borrower during
Negotiations and, as appropriate, reflected in the Association-approved POM.
Procurement Administration
A.    Procurement Responsibilities  --  Procurement management and administration will be the
responsibility of the MoES / PCU which will carry out its activities in close coordination and consultation
with Ministry, regional and school officials. Procurement activities will be managed by a Procurement
Specialist in the PCU. MoES officials, with guidance from the Bank, have prepared TOR for initial
consulting and training services. They have also defined their technical and other goods requirements in
- 60 -



sufficient detail for the PCU Procurement Specialist to incorporate such into appropriate standard or
Region-approved bidding documentation. The PCU Procurement Specialist will implement all procurement
functions, such as advertisements, scheduling, announcement of tenders, collection of expressions of
interest from firms/institutions, preparation of bid/proposal invitation documentation and sample contracts,
guiding evaluation committee activities, preparing correspondence with the Bank and participating firms
about particular procurements, and maintaining required procurement files. Technical inputs and guidance
for suppliers and consultants within the contracts will be provided by cognizant Ministry units. Evaluation
Committees will be established by the MoES to carry out technical and financial evaluations in conformity
with requirements of the applicable Procurement Guidelines as outlined in the Association-approved POM.
The negotiation and award of contracts and their subsequent administration will be handled by the
MoES/PCU and coordinated with MoES/PCU project accounting and finance staffs to ensure effective
contract implementation, receipt of deliverables and invoices, and timely and correct payments, as defined
in the Association-approved POM.
B. Procurement Staffing and Capacities of the PCU - Project implementation will be coordinated by a
PCU located in the MoES. The PCU will be responsible for procurement implementation, Credit
accounting, disbursements, financial management, periodic reporting, and arranging for annual project
audits. The PCU will employ a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Specialist, an Accountant, and a
bilingual Project Assistant/Translator. In addition, the MoES has appointed (technical) Coordinators for
each of the substantive project components: the school grants, and the components for information systems,
assessments, and decentralization. The School Grants Coordinator will also have a dedicated assistant due
to the heavy logistical workload of managing many small grants. Position descriptions have been prepared
for all PCU positions and Coordinators and will be part of the POM.
The PCU does not at present have the institutional structure or the experience to administer the
procurement/input administration functions of the proposed education improvement activities.
Notwithstanding, technical, implementation and financial management training, advisory and systems
support are being put in place and will continue under Credit funding which will permit the PCU to become
capacitated to carry out its projected procurement administration tasks. The Ministry has already specified
a PCU procurement person who has an appropriate (legal) professional background and a supportive work
history. The Ministry has also already specified a person to be responsible for PCU accounting functions.
C.   Procurement Risks - From the procurement management perspective, the Republic of Serbia
Education Improvement Project should be considered as a high risk activity. The project will involve
numerous implementation entities, a physical dispersion of actions, and a variety of institution-building and
school improvement efforts. Coordination, oversight and quality control of the School Grant activities will
be a challenge. Supporting consultant services procurements and the management of such contracts will
likewise present considerable challenges for the PCU procurement and financial management staff. The
somewhat ambitious program schedule and its innovative nature, along with the procurement challenges
therein, aggregate to a high overall level of implementation / management risk.
D. Action Plan for PCU Capacitation
*   Development of POM, including procurement procedures and procurement documentation samples
*   Hiring PCU procurement specialist (consultant - done) and implement training /skills development
program
*   Coordination of program and MoES policies, procedures and authorities so PCU will function
effectively, including decision making
- 61 -



o   PCU operations orientation (pre-implementation training) and external consultant services support
a   IDA staff oversight and initial / 'Project Launch' support
e   Linkages with more experienced FRY - external (bi-laterally funded) consultants and PCUs
Procurement methods (Table A)
E.     A summary of the Project procurements is provided in the table below.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
i                   Procurement Met,od|
Expanditura ci;*' r-            ICB             NCI Oth.-                 N.F.     I
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.53            0.00          0.41         0.00        0.94
(0.50)          (0.00)        (0.41)       (0.00)      (0.91)
3. Servic:es                        0.00            0.00          4.62         0.00        4.62
(0.00)          (0.00)        (3.61)       (0.00)      (3.61)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00          0.30         0.00        0.30
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.30)
5. School Grants                    0.00            0.00          4.98         0.00        4.98
(0.00)          (0.00)        (4.48)       (0.00)      (4.48)
6. Operaling Expenditures           0.00            0.00          1.33         0.00        1.33
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.70)       (0.00)      (0.70)
Total                            0.53            0.00          11.64         0.00       12.17
(0.50)          (0.00)        (9.50)       (0.00)      (10.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, training, technical
assistance services, and School Grants to be procured using Comnnunity-based procurement procurement
procedures.
QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
LCS = Least Cost Selection
CQ = Consultant Qualification
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultant Guidelines) and technica] services
NS = National Shopping
IS = Inteinational Shopping
Grants = Refer to procurement paragraph under the School Grants description (Annex 2). Grants will include use
of commtuity-based procurement procedures.
- 62 -



F. ProcurementAdministration:
1. Plrocuirenment of Goods (UJS$ 0.91 million) Goods to be financed under the Credit include: office
equipment, computers, off-the-shelf software, furniture, materials, vehicles, and equipment for
reproduction of examinations.
(i) International Competitive Biding (CB). (Hardware for the EIS) Goods and equipment which are
estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 per contract will be procured using ICB procedures.
(ii) lInternational Shopping (IS).  (Hardware, software, Desktop publishing system for the
Assessment Unit) Contracts for imported goods and equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $150,000, may be procured by IS procedures. Intemational
Shopping procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two different countries in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(iii) National Shopping (IS). (Office equipment for the local and central education offices; basic
furniture, security system, printers for the Assessment Unit; cars) Contracts for locally procured goods
and equipment estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of $220,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the Guidelines.
2.  Plrocurement of Consultant Services (rirms) (VS$ 3.04 million) -- Consultant services are for the
Assessment Development, support and training;  software development under EIS component;
Decentralization support, School Grants manual design/support and Professional training for EIS under
the proposed Credit. The largest portion of these services purchases would be procured from firms for,
e.g., Technical Assistance and training for the Assessment Services and Application Software and
Professional Training for the EIS component. These services would be procured using the QCBS method
and are estimated to involve about US$ 2.5 million in Credit resources. Other consultant services are
envisioned to be procured using the LCS and CQ methods. The total estimated Credit allocation for these
purchases is about US$ 0.53. Annual audit services are expected to be procured using the Least Cost
method.
3.    Procurement of Consultant Services (individuals) (US$ 0.57 million) -- The Project's School
Improvement Grants, Standards and Assessment Development, Education Decentralization and Project
Management components envision the engagement of a variety of expatriate and local consultants for
smaller activities and those, such as training, where the nature of the assignment meets the criteria specified
in section 5.1 of the Consultants Guidelines. The project includes the procurement of 6-8 expatriate
consultants for a variety of consultants' services, these program elements would also engage large number
Yugoslav national consultants.  Individual intemational and local consulting services contracts in
Components 1-5 will be hired according to Section V of the Guidelines. The value of these individual
consultant contracts are expected to range between US$2,000-94,000, equivalent.
4.   School Grants (1$$ 4.48 million) -- The small school grants (aggregate US$ 4,480,000) are
expected to range between US$ 2,000 and US$ 10,000 equivalent and will cover, inter alia, goods such as
teaching aids, library books, classroom improvements and minor equipment, consultant fees; costs of
organizing / advertising meetings to facilitate attendance by parents and community members, providing
adequate facilities and subject content. Procurement of goods and services will be carried out by the
school's board, following an approved budget and procurement plan and employing community-based
procurement procedures, as indicated in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, and included in the POM.
- 63 -



Records of procedures and receipts will be kept in the schools for spot-check supervision and audits. The
School Grants Coordinator, with support from the MoES / PCU, will supervise the implementation and
prepare consolidated reports. The Association will, on a sample basis, supervise the procedures followed
by the regional evaluation boards to approve the school grants.
Special Procurement Applications: School Grants Implementation
Type I and Type II school / activity grant applications will be approved on a competitive basis by
regional evaluation boards. IDA funds will flow from the IDA credit account at the MoES to the school
account and will be dispersed from this account on the signature of the school director and other signatories
as designated in a contract between the MoES and the school. Government and/or local contributions, e.g.,
in cash or in kind (labor, materials, technical support, etc.), may be provided at the community level to
support the grant activities which will be financed 90% by IDA. Regional evaluation boards will evaluate
the local contribution as part of the competitive selection process. The first ten grants will be reviewed by
the Association prior to approval to ensure that recipients fully understand transparent and efficient
procurement requirements. Given the nature and small value of the School Grants, the procurement of
goods and services would be implemented using community-based purchasing procedures, to be included in
the POMd, which will, where practicable, be based on three price quotations. The capacity of schools to
obtain three quotations will be evaluated, and procedures adjusted as necessary, following the School
Grants P?ilot.
i. School Improvement Schemes (Activity Type I)
Proposals submitted under Activity I should aim to improve classroom teaching in a specific
subject such as science, math or languages, provide training for teachers in a needed subject or skill area,
or support an inter-disciplinary project - for example links between the curriculum and the environment,
local history, etc. Unless the Association otherwise agrees, for Activity I school grants, no IDA-funded
grant contribution will exceed US$ 10,000 equivalent although the total project cost may exceed this
amount taking into account Government and, e.g., community contributions. School Grant allocations may
finance the procurement of goods (small value classroom equipment, paper, utensils, and materials),
technical assistance, and services (transportation, rental of conference rooms, seminar implementation,
etc.).
ii. Special/Extra Curricular Activities (Activity Type II)
Proposals submitted under Activity II should aim to improve extra curricular activities, such as
trips, clubs, sports, projects to improve the school grounds, projects to involve the community in school
activities, etc. Unless the Association otherwise agrees, for Activity II school grants, no IDA-funded grant
contributtion will exceed US$ 2,000 equivalent although the total project cost may exceed this amount
taking into account Government and, e.g., community contributions.
6.  Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$ 0.70 million) - IDA will finance, on a declining basis, a portion
of the operating costs of the Assessments Unit and the PCU including, inter alia, PCU consultant's fees, as
well as project related travel and subsistence, vehicle insurance, operation and maintenance cost for
equipment, office operations, maintenance and supplies. These costs will be subject to IDA approval on an
annual basis. The Government will finance about 55 percent of incremental recurrent costs on an increasing
basis and will be expected to finance these costs fully by the time of completion of the project.
- 64 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
,r~inbuitant Servces
. S diture Category  CCBS -  3QBS   SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.S.t. TotalCost
A. Firms              3.14    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.57    0.00    0.00     3.81
(2.51)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.08)  (0.45)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.04)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.81    0.00     0.81
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.57)  (0.00)   (0.57)
Total  3.14    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.57    0.81    0.00     4.62
_  (2.51)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.08)  (0.45)  (0.57)  (0.00)  (3.61)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 65 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
C. Procurement Plan -- A detailed Procurement Plan has been prepared by PCU with assistance from
the Association and is available for review. It will be updated and reviewed annually by the Association.
H.    Prior Reviews -- The procurement of goods and services will be carried out according to the
agreed procurement plan described in Table D and will be subject to IDA reviews as noted in Table B of
this Anmex. The PCU will be applying standard Bank/ECA Region works, goods and services procurement
documentation, adjusted as appropriate for implementation within the Project and Republic of Yugoslavia.
Prior reviews would include:  a) any goods (under ICB), and consultant services (under QCBS)
procurements; b) procurements of individual consultant services in excess of US$50,000 equivalent per
contract; c) and the first two contracts under the following: (i) goods (IS) under US$100,000., (ii) goods
(NS) under US$50,000; (iii) consultant services (for firms: CQ and LCS) under US$100,000, and (iv)
Consultant Services (Individuals) under US$ 50,000. Prior review procedures would also apply to any
contract amendment which would cause a new contract total to eclipse the foregoing review threshold
levels. PCU operating plans and budgets, which would indicate, e.g., office expenditures, consultants' fees,
utilities, office equipment / communications services, procurements would be reviewed and approved by the
IDA oni a prospective, annual basis. IDA will prior review the first 10 grants to be approved under the
School Grants component. In addition, ex-post review of the School Improvement Grants' awards,
including procurement methods and transactions, would be conducted during project supervision, on a
sample basis, covering not less than twenty percent of the School Grants implemented since the prior
ex-post review exercise.
I.   T'hresholds for Procurement Methods -- The current PCU does not have experience in
Association -financed projects; legislation goveming conflict of interest, corruption, and transparency has
not been passed; and standards for procurement which comply with IDA procurement guidelines have not
been developed. For these reasons, the overall activity has been rated high risk. It is, therefore,
recommended that the following thresholds be used:
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
Contract Value *
Threshold              Procurement
Expe nditure Category          (US$)                  Methi 1         _     _   _    _
1. Works                         n/a                     n/a                      n/a
2. Goods                      >100,000                   ICB                      All
up to 100,000                IS                    First two
<50,000                   NS                    First two
3. Senricesand Training       >200,000                  QCBS                      All
up to 100,000               LCS                    First two
up to 100,000                CQ                    First two
n/a                     IC             First two under 50,000 and
All over 50,000
4.School Grants                                          CBP                 First ten grants
5. Recurrent Costs                                       n/a                      n/a
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  72% (w/o School
- 66 -



Grants)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
In addition to the above indicated prior review actions, it is recommended that procurement supervision
include a Project Launch orientation and training session as part of an initial, extended project supervision
mission. Such a start-up activity would ideally take place within the several months before Credit Effectiveness to
ensure completion of procurement administration and pre-implementation preparations. Procurement supervision,
including periodic 'post review' samplings of other procurement transactions, should be effected at least twice in
the first implementation year and annually thereafter. "Post Review" activities should cover at least 20%,
randomly selected, of purchases subject thereto that took place since the previous post review activity.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements. Activity Controls and Audits
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, IDA-funded school grant contributions (aggregate
US$ 4,500,000) will range between US $2,000 and US$ 10,000 and will cover, inter alia: (a) goods such
as teaching aids and materials, textbooks and library books, small pieces of pedagogical and other
equipment, (b) remuneration for personnel and training services; and (c) the costs of advertising meetings
through leaflets and posters and facilitating attendance of parents and community members by providing
adequat- facilities and snacks. Procurement of goods and services will be carried out by the school's
principal, following the budget and procurement plan included in the project preparation manual and
following local procurement guidelines. Receipts will be kept in the schools for spot-check supervision and
audits. The School Grants Coordinator, with support from the PCU will supervise the implementation and
prepare consolidated reports. The Association will supervise the procedures followed by the regional
evaluation boards to approve the school grants.
The risk of misuse or fraud will be minimized by: (a) the sample contract to be signed between the
PCU and the winning school will contain a clause to assure the utilization of funds according to agreed
objectives, as well as a remedies section, which will include the possibility of excluding a school which
does not comply with agreed procedures and/or funds utilization, and recovery of the amounts misused; (b)
the multi-representative nature of the project design and implementation, where the community, teachers
and students are involved, should be a natural self-control mechanism; (c) periodic quality supervision will
be carried out by the School Grants Coordinator; (d) third party quality supervision will also be
undertaken, on a sample basis, with technical assistance to be hired specifically for this purpose; (e)
supervision of financial flows will be carried out by the School Grants Coordinator on a sample basis, and
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; (f) in-depth supervision will be
undertaken on a periodic basis by the Bank PAS and Operations Staff.
Quality evaluation and procurement auditing of School Grant activities will be undertaken twice a
year by consultants to be hired under the project. Financial auditing of School Grants activities will be
undertaken by independent auditors acceptable to the Association at the same time as the rest of the project
is audited once a year.
Disbursements
The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of four years. The closing date would be
December 31, 2006. It is expected that this period would be sufficient to implement the project and to
complete disbursements, given the nature and size of the project.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds. Table C shows the allocation of Credit proceeds by category
and indicative disbursement percentages for each category. The disbursement percentages are consistent
with the Standard Country Disbursement Percentages approved for the Republic of Yugoslavia.
- 68 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
-, -.twJre Category       Amount In US$million        Financing Percentage
(1) School Grants                          4.50                        90%
(2) Goods and Equipment                    0.80              100% of local expenditures,
95% of foreign expenditures
(3) Consultants' services                  3.00             70% for services by individuals,
80% for services by firms
(4) Training                               0.30                        100%
(5) Incremental Operating Costs            0.90              87% of expenditures incurred
until December 31, 2003,
60 % of expenditures incurred
until June 30, 2005,
and 30% of expenditures incurred
thereafter
(6) Unallocated                            0.50
Ttal Project Costs                        10.00
Total                                     10.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements from the Credit will be made by the Association on receipt of full documentation
for all project expenditures except those submitted as SOEs. Disbursements will be made against SOEs for
contracts for: goods (both IS and NS) less than US$ 100,000 equivalent except for the first two contracts
subject to procurement prior review; consultant contracts less than US$ 50,000 equivalent for individuals
and US$ 100,000 equivalent for firns except for the first two contracts for firms (both CQ and LCS) and
individuals which, respectively, are subject to procurement prior review; School Grants less than US$
10,000 equivalent, except for the first 10 grants subject to prior review; and all incremental operating
expenditures. Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis and must be fully
documented and supported by bank statements and reconciliation statements. This documentation will be
made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by the
PCU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which disbursement
was made.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate,
under conditions acceptable by the Association, a SA in Euro in a commercial bank. The authorized
allocation of the SA will be Euro 680,000, representing approximately four months of eligible
expenditures. Upon effectiveness, the borrower may send a withdrawal application for Euro 340,000
representing 50% of the authorized allocation. When the amount withdrawn from Credit account and the
outstanding Special Commitment amount to SDR 800,000 the borrower may withdraw the remaining
balance of Euro 340,000. Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months, and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
- 69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA UEDCATDOM             ONPRODEVEINET PROJECT
Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10                           6
First Bank mission (identification)              07/09/2001                   07/09/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      12/03/2001                   12/03/2001
Negotiations                                     02/12/2002                   01/29/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/30/2002
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Serbia
Preparation assistance:
World Bank Education Team
Trust Fumd from the Government of New Zealand
Bank sitaff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specality
Jim Stevens                        Team Leader
Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer          School Fund Mechanisms
Don Winkler                        Education Decentralization
Eric Pedersen                      Information and Funding Systems
Johanna Crighton                   Assessments
Zorica Lesic                       Operations and Costing
Michael Mertaugh                   Education Economist
Hiran Herat                        Financial Management Specialist
Frank Kenefick                     Procurement Accredited Staff
Gennady Pilch                      Legal
Joe Fornoso                        Disbursements
Gordana Radic                     Information Systems
Barbara Bruns                      Education Govemance (Peer Reviewer)
Bob Prouty                         Fund Mechanisms and Quality (Peer Reviewer)
Nadia Mochinova                    Team Support and Consultant Contracting
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
A Project Operational Manual with detailed implementation plans for all components has been produced
and will be completed at negotiations.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Social Assessment review to be coordinated by Eluned Robert-Schweitzer.
* Assessment of institutional capacity at various levels carried out as part of project preparation and
appraisal for all components.
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 71 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
03-Jan-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA        SF                Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P074136        2002 EMG ELEC PWR RECN                                  0.00       0.00      6.00                  0.00      SA0        1.80       0.00
P074124        2002 SOC ASST                                           0.00       0.00     10.00                  0.00      0.80      -8.20       0.00
P074127        2001 FIN SEC DEVT TA GRANT                             0o00        0.00      6.00                  0.00      5.70       1.90       0.00
P074145        2001 PRIVSECTOEVTTA                                     000        000       600                   0.00      5.96       1.66       0.00
Total:        0.00      0o00       28.00                 0.00      17.86      -2.84       0.00
- 72 -



YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic
1982/87             Igalo                         2.49     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.49    0.00    0.00     0.00
1985                Jugobanka                     3.92     0.00    0.00    0.84     3.92    0.00    0.00     0.84
1980                Monte Hotels                  2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1980                Radoje                         1.17    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.17    0.00    0.00     0.00
1980                SMSIE Yugo                     1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.08    0.00    0.00     0.00
1987/89             VB                           20.03     0.00    0.00    5.79    20.03    0.00    0.00     5.79
Total Portfolio:        30.69     0.00    0.00     6.63   30.69    0.00     0.00    6.63
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2002               MFB Yugoslavia                    3.65      0.00      1.00      0.00
2002               MFI MEB Kosovo                    0.00      0.00      1.12      0.00
2002               Raiffeisen I Yug                  0.00      0.00      1.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         3.65      0.00      3.12     0.00
- 73 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
FEL-. REF. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                            Yugoslavia,   Central  middle-
Fed. Rep.     Asla   Income      Development dlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      10.6      475     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per cpilta (Atlas method. US$) I/                990      2,010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions) 11                  10.5      956      2.327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populatiol (I%)                                       0.2       0.1       1.0
Labor force (%)                                       0.5       0.6       1.3     GNI                  .         Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             per             -             primary
Povertv (% of population below national poverty line)                             capita       '-    .       enrollment
Urban povulation (% of total population)              52        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)               13       21        32
Child malnrutrition (% of children under 5)            2         ..       11
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   ..        90       80           Access to Improved water source
Iliteracv ('% of population age 15+)                             3        15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  69        100      114             Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep.
Male                                                69        101      116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              70        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP fUSJ: billions)                           ..       ..      10.3       9.0
Gross doniestic investment/GDP                 ..      ..      11.1      14.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..       ..      20.8     28.3                  Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                    ..       ..      -2.4      -2.5
Gross national savinos/GDP                    ..       ..       6.1       9.9
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      ..      -7.4      -4.4
Interest payments/GOP                          ..      ..       0.8       0.5     Domestic
Total debtUGDP                                                          136.1    savings   '      .            Investment
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..       4.7       2.2                     .
Present value of debtUGDP                     ..        .
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..        ..        .
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-03                    Indebtedness
(average ennual growth)
GDP                                   ..      ..    -15.7       6.0       4.8            Yugoslavia. Fed. Rep.
GDP per capita                                      -15.7       6.0        ..       -- - Lower-middle-income grrup
Exports of ooods and services        ..       ..    -45.6      18.6      14.5
STRUCTU RE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDFP)                                1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
Agriculture                                   ..     18.2      26.5        .      20
Industry                                             42.5      35.8        .
Manufacturin                                 .    .        ..                   2      95    9     97 
Services                                       ..    39.3      37.7        ..    12
Private conisumption                          ..       ..      75.3      77.2     so
General qovernment consumption                ..       ..      27.1      25.3                  -  G0        --*GDP
Imports of ooods and services                 ..       ..      34.2      45.1
1980-90  1990-99      1999     2000
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..     -4.1       1.2              40
Industry                                      ..     -7.1     -25.6              20
Manufacturing                               ..
Services                                      ..     -6.5     -32.5        ..     o'                                f
Private conisumption                          ..       ..     -12.9       9.5   .20     95    9S    97    98
General government consumption                ..       ..      -7.1      -3.0    40-
Gross dorrestic investment                    ..       ..     -38.1      17.1               -     EEports   -Imports
Imports of qoods and services                 ..       ..     -32.8      14.9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If data are missinqg the diamond will
be inconmplete.
- 74 -



Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic Prices                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        150 
Consumer prices (e.o.p.)                       ..      ..       49.9    113.5    100                                   O
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..      ..       55.6     77.8
Government finance 2)
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                ..       .         ..     38.8             ss   es    97    98    99    00
Current budget balance                         ..      ..                 2.5           -G    OP deflator  C-'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..      ..-01
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Expont and import 1.W.,aI IUS.1 mill)
(US$ mirlions)
Total exports (fob)                             .       ..     1.677    1,923     50o -
Food                                         ..       .        352              4i
Fuel and energy                              ..       ..        0         ..
Manufactures                                 ..        .      453               3..CC
Total Imports (fob)                                 .          3,296    3,772    ..0CL
Food                                          .       ..      330
Fuel and energy                               .       ..      396         .
Capital goods                                 .       ..      725         .
94   95   95   97   95   99  50
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..
Import price index (1995='100)                 ..      ..        ..        ..                * Exports    L Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(U)SS millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                 2148      2,547     o
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..     3,539     4,004         94   95   so   97   98
Resource balance                               ..      ..    -1,391    -1,457    -2
Net income                                     ..      ..       -41      -62
Net current transfers                          ..      ..       668     1,119     -4
Current account balance                        ..      ..      -764     -400     |
Financing items (net)                         ..       ..       653      607
Changes in net reserves                                         Ill     -207      8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..        ..      505
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)               ..    11.3       19.6     42.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            .       ..       ..    12,267
IBRD                                         ..      ..        ..     1,096                   G: 572  A: 1,096
IDA                                          ..       ..1511
Total debt service                             ..      ..                 56                                   0: 611
IBRD                                         .        ..        .        0
IDA                                          ..      ..        ..        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                  F: 4,115 l
Official grants                             ..       ..        ..      271
Official creditors                          ..       ..        ..      213
Private creditors                           ..       ..        ..       16
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..        ..       25                                   5,003
Portfolio eqluitv                           ..       ..        ..        0
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       ..        ..        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..       ..        ..        0      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       ..         .        0      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                                                0
Interest payments                           ..       ..        ..        0
Net transfers                               ..       ..        ..        0
Development Economics                                                                                              9/17/01
- 75 -



Additional Annex 11: Financial Management Assessment
FED. REF. OF YUGOSLAVIA: REPUBLIC OF SERBIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1. I xecutive Summary and Conclusion
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in January
2002 to determine whether the financial management arrangements within the PCU are acceptable to the
Association. It is concluded that the arrangements established by the PCU satisfy the Association's
minimum financial management requirements. In addition, the PCU has agreed to the following:
Action                                                             Deadline
1. Establish a permanent fnancial management system                Within three months
after Effectiveness
2. The PCU to select auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit the Credit  09/30/2002
accounlts.
3. Prepare FMR on the interim system                               First quarter after
Effectiveness
4. Prepare FMR on the new system                                   First quarter after
installation of the new
__________________________________________________________________________  sy stem
A summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management Assessment    Rating       Comments
1. Im]plementing Entity            Substantial  The MOE lacks adequate systems and
qualified people. The project will be "ring
fenced"
2. Fuads Flow                      Substantial  SA will be opened in a foreign commercial
bank. Local contributions are budget
based.
3. Staffing                        Moderate     Qualified people will be appointed, but will
require training in Bank procedures
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Moderate  MoES procedures are weak. However,
written procedures exist at the PCU
5. Internal Audit                               NA
6. External Audit                  Moderate     The PCU will appoint auditors acceptable to
the Bank to audit the project accounts
7. Reporting and Monitoring        Moderate     PCU will prepare FMR acceptable to the
Bank.
8. Information Systems             Moderate     The systems at the MoES is weak. The PCU
has an interim system in place.
Overall Financlal Management       Moderate
Rating                                     _   _
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files.
- 76 -



2.     Project Description Summary
The project has FIVE components, as follows:
School Improvement Grants: The objectives of the school fund are to improve teaching and
leaming in schools and to empower local communities to take responsibility for their schools. Funds would
be managed directly by the school board and school staff to carry out prioritized activities, thus
empowering the school to analyze problems, and also providing cash resources to address them. A draft
description of the fund mechanism, the criteria for fund allocation and the institutional arrangements for
managing the fund have been prepared for appraisal. In summary, the MoES will allocate funding for
proposals which will be based on prioritized activities in a school development plan. Schools will receive
training in how to develop school development plans that prioritize both pedagogical and material needs,
and priorities for evaluating school development plans will be developed. School boards will be required, as
part of this outreach to schools, to work with the school to prioritize school development activities.
Standards and Assessment Development: The objectives of this component are (1) to raise the
focus on quality in Serbian education by setting intemationally recognized standards, (2) to establish a
modern and internationally-recognized system for assessment and examinations, and (3) to establish and
develop a sustainable ESAS for Serbia. The legal status of the proposed ESAS remains to be identified and
agreed at appraisal. While the Bank project team supports the recommendation to development such a
capacity in a public institution independent of political structures, project financing could be re-oriented to
building capacity for developing standards and assessment within the MoES. The project will finance
training and study visits for key specialist and administrative/logistical ESAS staff; equipment, software,
materials, books etc. for ESAS; support for developing and piloting/field testing of standards-linked
external assessment instruments at agreed levels in the education system
Education Information Systems: The objective of this component is to promote effective
management of resources and monitoring of performance in the MoES through improved information and
financing systems. The project will provide technical support to: develop the initial set of computer
software modules covering the basic transaction processing in schools for educational statistics, inventory
and finance, and aggregation of this data at the Ministry level; pilot the software at the central, regional,
municipality, and school levels; strengthen system platforms (hardware) of the Ministry regional offices
and the municipality offices; develop and deliver professional management training in information systems
for school directors, school accountants and the staff from the municipalities and the Ministry; develop
benchmark standards for expansion of the simple data bases developed under the component and the future
development and implementation of additional EIS modules: and pilot a per student education funding
model to include an analytical framework as well as accounting documentation and procedures.
Education Decentralization: The principal objective of the Education Decentralization component
of the project is to strengthen governance and management capacity in primary and secondary education.
Strengthened capacity would improve the overall performance of the existing system, and improve equity
by reducing variance in capacity across schools and municipalities.
Project Management: A PCU is being established for implementation of this project. The PCU
will be responsible for the administrative and fiduciary responsibilities related to the project (e.g. financial
management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring and reporting). Specific coordinators will be
appointed by appraisal for the various project components. These staff will be MoES employees and would
not be located in the management unit. Prior to negotiations, the MoES will appoint a full time Project
Coordinator, a secretary interpreter, a project accountant, and a procurement officer, in addition to
- 77 -



designated coordinators for each substantive component. These staff will be paid with project funding on a
declining basis.
3.     Country Financial Issue
A CFAA was initiated for Serbia in October of 2001, and the report is being finalized. However,
based on the country experience in other Association financed Grants and due diligence work conducted
under the project, it can be concluded there is lack of accountability in the Serbian government's overall
accounting and reporting functions. There is currently no Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) in FRY and no
independent external audit is carried out on Republican Government accounts. There is, therefore, very
limited transparency and financial accountability over the use of public finances. There is also a dearth of
qualified accountants in the public sector. The CFAA mission carried out a review of three foreign owned
banks, which have been judged acceptable by IDA to hold Special Accounts. No assessment of the local
banks were conducted. However, a Association financed project (FSD TA) is assisting the Government to
restructure and privatize state banks.
Given the lack of financial management capacity at the MoES, it has been decided that the project
should be "Ring fenced". A PCU has been established at the Ministry that will have the responsibility for
the project's administrative functions (including financial management). The PCU has been staffed with
qualified people, who will also be provided with training to be financed from the Credit. An interim
financial management system acceptable to the Association has been established at the PCU. This system
will be up-graded after the project becomes effective. The project Accounts will be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Association. The selection of the auditor will be based on the recommendations of the
CFAA report.   An operational manual has been prepared, incorporating all procedures for the
implementation of the project taking into account Association requirements. The special account will be
opened in one of the foreign commercial banks, that was reviewed by the CFAA mission.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of four years. The MoES will be the
implementing agency for the project. As mentioned above, a PCU in the MoE will be responsible for
overall coordination, project management, financial management arrangements, disbursements and
procurement. The PCU has a Director, a procurement officer and an accountant.
4.2    Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
An Accountant has been selected. She would be responsible for all aspects of the financial
management and accounting, including maintaining books of accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions.
She will also be in charge of the special account and preparation of SOEs and replenishment of the SA.
However, she does not have experience in Bank procedures. To mitigate this problem, training will be
provided, which will be financed from the Credit.
4.3    Accounting and Internal Controls
The PCU will take all necessary steps to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank
policies (OP/BP 10.02). This would include the establishment of proper accounting procedures and internal
controls, which will be documented in an operational manual. The manual has been prepared. reviewed
and approved by the Association.
- 78 -



4.4    Computerized Accounting Systems
The PCU is responsible for overall project financial management and accounting for the project.
The PCU has established an interim financial management system acceptable to the Association. The
reason for the interim system is that no funds (PPF or Grants, nor counterpart funding) are available to
establish a permanent system. This will be done, within three months of the effective date. The
Association has agreed to this approach.
4.5    Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
The PCU will recruit independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Association with the audit report six months
after end of each year audited. Cost of the audit will be financed through Credit. The PCU will select the
auditors (based on the recommendation of the CFAA study) acceptable to the Bank by September 30,
2002.
4.6    Financial Manual
Operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management has been documented in a
Financial Management and Operational Manual encompassing all levels of project management and
administration. The Manual includes financial management and staffing, identification of accounting and
auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring, procedures for
cash and asset management and format of project management reports.
4.7    Conclusion
It is concluded that anrangements established by the PCU meet the Association's minimum financial
management requirements.
5.     Financial Flows
A special account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association. All
contracts will be concluded by the PCU. The PCU will prepare all the relevant documents, obtain the
required clearances and effect payments and maintain the SA. It is recommended that the PCU open an
account in a commercial bank to which the Govermnent should deposit the counterpart contributions for at
least the first year.
6.    Financial Monitoring Reports
The PCU will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds
provided. It has been agreed that the PCU will be responsible for designing appropriate financial
monitoring reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs include:
*   Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*   Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*   Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
*   Project Progress Reporting
*   Procurement Monitoring
7.    Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed project has a moderate risk rating.
A summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
- 79 -



.___________ _  Risk Assessment
SMNComments
1. Inherent Risk
Serbia                                   H                        Overall corruption is high and
govemance is inadequate.
Project Mfanagement Unit                 S                        The PCU is fully staffed but does not
have experience in Association
procedures.
Project                                  M                        The project is well conceived. The
Government has demonstrated a high
level of commitment.
Overall Inherent Risk                    S
2. Control Risk
1. ImplemLenting Entity                  S                        PCU staff do not have experience in
Bank procedures
2. Funds Flow                             S                       IDA funds would flow through a SA.
The counterpart contributions are
budget based
3. Staffing                              S                        Staff lack experience in Bank
procedures
4. Accounrting Policies and Procedures   M                        The PCU has procedures in place
5. Internal Audit                                                 NA
6. External Audit                        M                        Auditors acceptable to the
Association will be appointed
7. Reporting and Monitoring              M                        Agreed formats will be produced
8. Information Systems                   M                        A system exists at the PCU.
Overall Ibherent Risk
H - High      S - Substantial      M - Moderate         N - Negligible or Low
8.     Disbursements
Disbursements from the Credit will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from
the SA with reimbursements made based on SOEs and full documentation, and direct payments from the
Credit Account). The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6.
To facilitElte timely project implementation, the PCU will establish, maintain and operate a special account
under tenns and conditions acceptable to the Association. The option to move to a FMR based
disbursements will not be considered.
9.     Sp7ecial account:
To facilitate tirnely project implementation, the PCU will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions, acceptable to the Association, a special accounts in US dollars in a commercial bank for the
Credit. The selection process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank will follow the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook procedures. The bank would, upon request, make a deposit of Euro 680,000 to
the special account. Applications for the replenishment of the account will be submitted at least every three
months or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The necessary
- 80 -



documentation, the special account bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement will support
the replenishment application.
10.    Financial Covenants
The following are the covenants relating to financial matters:
*   The PCU will complete the agreed financial action plan for strengthening the project financial
management systems by September 30, 2002.
*   The Government will cause the PCU to have its records, accounts and financial statements audited
each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2002.
11.    Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during
supervision mnissions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based FMS and the results
or issues followed up during the supervision missions. Audit reports of the project will be reviewed and
issues identified and followed up. The field-based FMS wouid monitor the agreed action plan to ensure
appropriate actions have been implemented by the PCU.
- 81 -



- 82 -



IBRD 31506
18          t19'           20'           21'  *        22'           23'
H U N7QA RY                           ( Vg   !   FEDERAL REPUBLIC
i2     ;   I   {  |>0_%ttArad  OF YUGOSLAVIA
P6cs                     V,t...'
46'  Moh6cs7*    I       - |                        | ._ ' t 'F ,.- ]EUROPEAN HIGHWAYS  46'
<_ .\ . 4 *'                 I:      ,, .. :1 1 - ,; ' >' 11 - OTHER CLASS I HIGHWAYS
F 1    -3 ._                     ----,--- . tRAILWAYS
fl n      1 -                ;                        AIPPoRTS
'  A  4 A.. 1>                    :s
.,        /                '  -. - !3P ''iTLIC OR PROVINCE CAPITALS
r  i   ;      .       )    I          Ii  li-Ti DNAL CAPITALS
.AI .r;t  ---. INCE BOUNDARIES
*.-I -'LIC BOUNDARY
Vinkc :.:*  ,                                      I TI NATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ii r
-45   maO   1l'a'l \  pX   1~ ' ;' :  t,  45'
_  , 1 ;             _       A                  !    >ROMANIA
BOSNIA AND    r
HERZEGOVINA           .B. t',
Iv                                        (1 ]   > , 1   1' -}1 | 1.,-. .; | . ........ 1, >- ... - ,_  U
SARA9,JEtCT     , a       -I             ;l|; > l       .'',,i 
/ .  jBULGARIA
_    t-  J    I ;.J:5L-'            ~  -   ,   J   *
'-.'  - 1  . ,                                   J --:   ,,> 1-
ii I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
I   ..                 I         .. I:; ;  i  I.-. ;I  .f
_~~ ~ ~~~~ ,;  /                           -'l ,,   _Vl1  -, IJ-  :' A
'S} M   O   N   T E N   EAO   R  e. ........... --   -.. .1J < 
CROATI t;; -;       -    -, r                     , t   -I  ,   1'
N ,  Prdcioi v,o  *  L .i1: i    -Z,I        '.
AAW!;U;C   !f         \ j      SF.D ~~~  ~   ~~~~jff  I
Seo  1l ' 1           . ALBANIA  -  i     d
,  -FYR MACEDONIA
'F:w                                           u  : . da.- -  - ; - 11 s -: I r ............................ t : . - 1 1 : .E.MBR 00
Addvo.;c r ia:e   :,'ti  -I         '        CL-,|            -  
SeI            I AL  AIA    .       I              I'
DECEMBER 2001



