Report No. 23279
Report No: I075189 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/28/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.) Project ID: P075189
Project: EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT Task Team Leader: James A. Stevens
Appraisal Date: December 3, 2001          IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: April 30, 2002        IDA Amount ($m): 10.00
Managing Unit: ECSHD     Sector: EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Building capacity and producing systematic information to help government
promote effective education reform
2. Improving teaching and learning in schools and empowering local
communities to take responsibility for their schools
I.A.3. Project Description:
Following is a summary of the status of preparation and, where applicable,
costing of project components. The activity costs are indicative and will
need to be reconfirmed at appraisal.     In all cases, if other donor
support is identified to support project components, the scale of these
activities could be increased, or further IDA funding could be added to
the School Fund, described below.
School Fund
The objectives of the school fund are to improve teaching and learning in
schools and to empower local communities to take responsibility for their
schools. Funds would be managed directly by the school board and school
staff to carry out prioritized activities, thus empowering the school to
analyze problems, and also providing cash resources to address them. A
draft description of the fund mechanism, the criteria for fund allocation
and the institutional arrangements for managing the fund have been
prepared for appraisal. In summary, the MoES will allocate funding for
proposals which will be based on prioritized activities in a school
development plan. Schools will receive training in how to develop school
development plans that prioritize both pedagogical and material needs, and
priorities for evaluating school development plans will be developed.
School boards will be required, as part of this outreach to schools, to
work with the school to prioritize school development activities.
During the project timeframe, the MoES aims to provide grants to 850
basic schools (around 75t of the total) and around 50 general secondary
schools (50w of secondary schools), representing those schools that have
not yet received significant donor and NGO support in Serbia to date. A
pilot phase of the project will be run during the 2001-2002 school year in



all regions of Serbia prior to an expanded main project beginning with the
2002-2003 school year. The pilot is designed to assess the
appropriateness of implementation mechanisms and evaluation criteria being
designed. Four schools in each region are expected to be chosen by the
MoES to participate in the program - two in rural or deprived urban areas
and two in more affluent areas -- on the grounds of their willingness and
ability to benefit from the project. Proposals will be evaluated at local
level and passed to an evaluation board at regional level for final
approval.
Funding will be allocated under the school fund component for independent
evaluations at mid-term and at the end of the project. Fund application
and reporting procedures will require the collection of standard base line
information on schools which will be made available to evaluators.
Standards and Assessment Development
The objectives of this component are (1) to raise the focus on quality in
Serbian education by setting internationally recognized standards, (2) to
establish a modern and internationally-recognized system for assessment
and examinations, and (3) to establish and develop a sustainable Education
Standards and Assessment Service (working name) for Serbia.
The legal status of the proposed ESAS remains to be identified and agreed
at appraisal. While the Bank project team supports the recommendation to
development such a capacity in a public institution independent of
political structures, project financing could be re-oriented to building
capacity for developing standards and assessment within the Ministry of
Education and Sports.
The project will finance training and study visits for key specialist and
administrative/logistical ESAS staff; equipment, software, materials,
books etc. for ESAS; support for developing and piloting/field testing of
standards-linked external assessment instruments at agreed levels in the
education system (for example at grades 4 , 8 and 12 in core subjects);
support for the national costs of OECD/PISA-Plus; technical assistance to
guide the activities listed above; and the recurrent costs of the ESAS on
a declining basis over three years. A detailed cost proposal has been
prepared for appraisal. An external assessment service would require
recurrent costs to be undertaken by the Government of Serbia in the range
30-40 million dinar per year (to be confirmed at appraisal). This amount
represents about one half of one percent of current government spending on
education in Serbia -- a low investment in the assessment function by
international standards.
An Education Information and Financing Systems
The objective of this component is to promote effective management of
resources and monitoring of performance in the Ministry of Education and
Sports through improved information and financing systems. The project
will provide technical support to:
develop the initial set of computer software modules covering the basic
transaction processing in schools for educational statistics, inventory
and finance, and aggregation of this data at the Ministry level;
- 2 -



pilot the software at the central, regional, municipality, and school
levels;
strengthen system platforms (hardware) of the Ministry of Education
regional offices and the municipality offices;
develop and deliver professional management training in information
systems for school directors, school accountants and the staff from the
municipalities and the Ministry;
develop benchmark standards for expansion of the simple data bases
developed under the component and the future development and
implementation of additional EIS modules: and
pilot a per student education funding model to include an analytical
framework as well as accounting documentation and procedures.
The development of the initial set of EIS modules will support the basic
aggregate information needs of schools, municipalities, regions and
ministries and begin the process of information management for effective
resource use and policy formation. It is not expected that the component
will produce complete personnel or student data bases in which electronic
files are created for each education employee or student, although
planning for more comprehensive data bases will be an outcome. In the
interest of transparency and public accountability, certain aggregate data
are expected to be made available to the public. This component will
support the related goals (see Decentralization below) of developing
greater municipality and school autonomy and community participation
within a decentralized governance education structure.
Education Decentralization
The principal objective of the Education Decentralization component of
the project is to strengthen governance and management capacity in primary
and secondary education. Strengthened capacity would improve the overall
performance of the existing system, and improve equity by reducing
variance in capacity across schools and municipalities. Strengthened
capacity would also increase the probability that future legal changes
granting increased governance and management powers to schools, school
boards, and municipalities would be quickly implemented.
The specific objectives of this component are as follows: (a) to improve
the capacity of school directors to manage schools and to work effectively
with other actors, especially the school board and the municipality; (b)
to develop the capacity of the school board to work with the school
director and the municipality in governing the school, in setting
strategic school priorities (as reflected in school development plans),
and in selecting the school director; (c) to strengthen the capacity of
municipalities to assess the educational needs under their responsibility,
especially infrastructure, maintenance, and transportation, and to provide
logistical and other support to schools located within the municipality;
and (d) to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Education, and its
school inspectors, in supporting the improvement of the management,
governance, and performance of primary and secondary education.
The component will comprise two basic sets of activities: (1) support for
needs assessment, system design and capacity building at local levels, and
(2) support for institutional assessment and capacity building for
monitoring and evaluation at the central MoES. Activities will inform
- 3 -



education decision makers of the implications of European experience for
Serbia and, thus, help refine capacity building goals; will assess
existing capacity and capacity building needs; will design and deliver
training to directors, school board members, municipal officials, and
school inspectors; will monitor and provide information to the Government
on the implementation of decentralization policies and programs; and will
strengthen the MoES in its capacity to identify and analyze problems in
sectoral management and to evaluate possible solutions. These latter two
activities are designed to shorten the feedback loop and speed up
institutional learning as to how best to govern and manage decentralized
education in Serbia.
Detailed terms of reference for technical assistance and training programs
and component cost estimates will be appraised in close collaboration with
the working group on decentralization.
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
A project coordination unit is being established for implementation of
this project. The PCU will be responsible for the administrative and
fiduciary responsibilities related to the project (e.g. financial
management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring and reporting.)
Specific coordinators will be appointed by appraisal for the various
project components. These staff will be MoES employees and would not be
located in the management unit. Prior to negotiations, the MoES will
appoint a full time Project Coordinator, a secretary interpreter, a
project accountant, and a procurement officer, in addition to designated
coordinators for each substantive component. These staff will be paid
with project funding on a declining basis, but at salary levels
commiserate with the MoES's public sector pay scale. The Project
Coordinator would also be responsible for reporting on substantive
achievements under the project.    Sample position descriptions have been
prepared for appraisal.
In addition to the responsibility of the Project Coordinator for
substantive coordination and reporting, he or she would also be
responsible for ensuring effective evaluation of project achievements and
outcomes during the project, and managing a monitoring and evaluation
budget. The main responsibility for evaluation under the project will be
the monitoring of the school fund's achievements and outcomes.
Components:
School Fund
Strategic Support for Decentralization
Education Management Information System
Assessment Agency
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
- 4 -



B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: Is is not expected that the program will have any negative
impact in the environment since it will mostly finance technical
assistance and will not finance rehabilitation or construction of schools.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
n/a
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
n/a
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
n/a
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
n/a
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
n/a
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
n/a
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
[   S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
- 5-



significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        James A. Stevens         11/09/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   11/26/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         James A. Socknat         11/27/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



