                                                                                                       96068
Bringing computer literacy and innovative teaching to Serbia                                     June 15, 2008
Republic of Serbia Education Improvement Project

We were like kids during the training, enjoying every second of it, Snezana Rajkovic, Teacher

Changing the lives of students and teachers in rural areas

Much is changing in the small towns and villages of Serbia. From Babusnica, in
impoverishedsoutheast Serbia, to Citluk in the republic's central region, to
Djurdjevo in the developed northern province of Vojvodina, an innovative
education program is changing the lives of students and teachers in some 200
schools.

And, with more residents eagerly getting involved, the program is rapidly turning
into a movement.

The school improvement program, supported by a US$10 million World Bank
credit, is part of a broader education improvement project. Started in 2002, the
program aims to improve teaching and learning in village schools, as well as empowering communities to take responsibility
for their schools. Funds are only made available once plans have been drawn up for school development by the local
education authorities, after consulting with local people.

By the time the project winds up in 2006, about 60 percent of Serbia's elementary schools will have benefitted from some
650 grants, and half its secondary schools will have received about 50 grants.

The benefits far surpass the investment

                                            “It's already clear, that we will be able to fund innovation in more schools than
                                            originally planned—we hope to include 700 or more,” says Svetlana Djuric,
                                            director of the Coordination Unit of the Serbian Ministry for Education.

                                            She cites the "excellent" support from involved communities, which are pooling in
                                            their own local resources to the project to a far greater extent than was earlier
                                            expected.

                                            Teachers, students, and parents show a lot of enthusiasm as well. School is more
                                            fun now and the curriculum more balanced. Everyone involved in the three
                                            elementary schools covered by the program agreed that the benefits far
surpassed the original investment, which ranged from US$5,300 to US$6,500 per school.

These are some of the stories behind the projects:

Introducing multimedia teaching in remote regions
Stefan Lazarevic Elementary School, Babusnica

This 800 pupil school competed for a grant under the  Education Innovation
Program with a project to introduce a multimedia approach to teaching. Kamenka
Ignjatovic, a member of the school's development team, recalls how it all began.
“Almost none of our teachers were computer literate at the time. When the
training started we would spend the whole day at school, staying even longer
than required."

The program was a hit outside school as well. The townspeople kept tabs on the
school's progress, down to what a given day's accomplishment had been.
Eventually the local secondary school too joined the project and paid for the
multimedia training. Today, 80 percent of the school's teachers are computer
literate. Half of them are able to prepare and teach a course using multimedia - videos, CDs, and PowerPoint, etc. The school
already has 29 presentations on CD rom, designed by its teachers.

After hearing of the project, private enterprises from Babusnica joined in too. A dance school from Pirot donated a computer
to the school. The Ministry of Education donated another two as a reward for the successful implementation of the project.
Children from nearby villages, from as far as seven kilometers away, come to Babusnica to study in a school that uses
multimedia techniques, as well as to learn how to use these tools themselves. Parents are now aware of new technologies,
and computer sales have dramatically increased. And now, with computers and CD roms in the village classrooms, a new
and entertaining approach to teaching is here to stay in this remote corner of the country.

Bringing a new environmental consciousness to rural schools
Sveti Sava Elementary School, Citluk

“We were just like kids during the training, enjoying every second of it,” explains
Snezana Rajkovic, a teacher at the 597-pupil school. Professors, parents, and
community representatives worked on a three-year development plan for the school.

Eventually, they came up with what they called an  Eco-School project. They trained 30
professors to conduct workshops to help students apply what they learn to daily life. As
a result, children at this school recycle paper, monitor water and air pollution in the
area and, together with their parents, they produce environmentally friendly food.

Nine-year-old Ana Draskovic, from Citluk, says she had no idea one could "use old
paper to make a new sheet and draw and paint on it." Her parents and grandparents
did not believe it either until one evening they sat together to help Ana do her homework. This entailed recycling the previous
day's newspapers.

Today Ana and her classmates can take a visitor, step by step, through the whole process of recycling - starting with
chopping the paper into the smallest of pieces. And with the help of their three professors, 15 students at the school have
produced a video on ecological issues. They hope other schools will use it too to teach their own pupils.

Providing computer training to village children
Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj Elementary School, Djurdjevo

The idea for this school's project, Quality School in a Village for a Village , came
from the community. Vukica Petrovic, a teacher at the 546-pupil school explains
that the community's initial suggestions included creating a Web site and
putting out a school newspaper. Eventually they all agreed that increasing their
knowledge of information technology was crucial to the improvement of
teaching. As a result, 90 percent (28 out of 32) of the staff plus two
representatives of the local community and two professors from a school nearby
are now trained to work with computers.

Ljubica Ramac-Trkulja is the mother of a student and a member of the
Djurdjevo school board. Having observed the thrill with which the professors
and pupils embraced computer training, she felt she must do something and
gave a printer to the school. The impact on Monica Buckner, who works for the
Swiss development authority, was similar. She sent a computer as well as
furniture for the school’s information technology cluster after learning about the project during one of her regular visits to the
village.

Dusan Vlajkov, a seventh-grader, was delighted when he found out that the school's new computers were meant for
everyone. “For me this is a unique opportunity to learn to work with a computer," he said. "I don’t have one at home; my
family can’t afford it.”

Since 90 percent of the population in the village are farmers, Vukica Petrovic is preparing a program about ways to improve
agriculture. It will be on a CD Rom so that any interested farmer can go through it. How will the farmers access the
information? Computer training will be offered during the next school break. Since the project began, 50 new computers have
been sold in the village. Soon, the gentle tapping of keyboards will be heard everywhere.
