Document of
The World Bank                                   FILE o
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3579-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$63.4 MILLION
TO THE
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO AGROPECUARIO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
May 12, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1981                               Average Calendar 1982
US$1  = Col$54.491                                  US$1  = Col$64.102
Col$1 =  US$ 0.01836                                Col$1 =  US$ 0.0156
Exchange Rate Effective April 21, 1983
US$1 = Col$75.07
Col$1 = US$0.0133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIAT      Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical
International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIMMYT    Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP       Centro Internacional de la Papa
International Potato Center
ICA       Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
Colombi- Agricultural Institute
IICA      Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacion para la Agricultura
Interamerican Institute of Cooperation for Agriculture
DRI       Desarrollo Rural Integrado
Integrated Rural Development Program
FFAP      Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
Agricultural Financing Fund
PLANIA    Plan Nacional de Investigacion Agropecuaria del ICA
National Plan for Agricultural Research of ICA
PLANTRA   Plan Nacional de Transferencia de Tecnologia para la Agricultura
National Plan for the Transference of Technology for Agriculture
COLOMBIAN AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA)
Guarantor:       Republic of Colombia
Amount:          Equivalent of US$63.4 million (including front-end fee)
Terms:           17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate and other charges
Project Description:
The project is aimed at increasing the capacity of ICA to improve
and expand its research and technology transfer activities so as to assist
the country in raising its agricultural output at competitive costs. The
project provides for the following components:
(a) research infrastructure development for about two veterinary
laboratories, and 15 existing research centers and stations and one to
be established, including:
(i) civil works, comprising mainly repairs and modifications to exist-
ing buildings, and land preparation on research stations, including
drainage and internal roads;
(ii) equipment, comprising mainly scientific instruments-, laboratory
equipment, vehicles, farm equipment and laboratory and office
furniture; and
(iii)  library and documeatation services and computing facilities;
(b) technical assistance and training comprising about 14.5 man-years of
consultancy services, postgraduate degree training for about 270 staff,
and short courses for a further 250 staff; and
(c)  incremental operating costs comprising the salaries and associated costs
for about 300 new research staff, a salary premium for about 190 exist-
ing and 230 new research workers to attract and retain high-level staff,
and operating costs for vehicles, equipment and facilities included in
the project.
The project would be implemented over a six-year period, beginning
in mid-1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks
The project faces no special risks, although realization of the
expected benefits will depend on the pace of diffusion and adoption of new
technologies by farmers; the rate at which experienced, former research staff
can be reengaged and new staff trained; the efficiency of the mechanisms for
research programming, administration, coordination and review; and the con-
tinuity in support for agricultural research. These risks are reasonable
considering especially (a) the closer link that will be established between
agricultural research and extension based on the review of the national agri-
cultural extension system to be financed under this project; and (b) the
mechanisms for establishing and reviewing research priorities that are in
place and that will be strengthened under the project.
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Local       Foreign       Total    Percentage
Research Infrastructure
Development                 17.8           27.2       45.0          32
Technical Assistance          3.2            8.6       11.8           8
Incremental
operating costs:
- personnel costs           54.7             -        54.7          39
- general expenses           22.9            7.3       30.2          21
Baseline cost                98.6           43.1      141.7         100
Contingencies                55.3            9.4       64.7          46
- physical                  (1.5)          (1.1)      (2.6)         (2)
- price                    (53.8)          (8.3)    (62.1)         (44)
Toal Project Cost           153.9           52.5      206.4a/
Front-end Fee on Bank
Loanl/                       -             0.2        0.2
Total Financing Required  153.9             52.7      206.6
Financing Plan                   US$ Million                 Percentage
Local   Foreign   Total
ICA                         143.2       -      143.2              69
Bank                         10.7    52.7       63.4b/            31
Total Financing:            153.9    52.7      206.6             100
a/  Including local taxes of US$3.5 million.
h/ Including front-end fee of US$158 thousand.
1/  Bank loan assumed as US$63.4 million.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Annual       2.9  17.3  20.6  12.6   6.3   3.4   0.3
Cummulative      2.9  20.2  40.8  53.4  59.7  63.1  63.4
Rate of Return:             Because of the nature of the project, no rate of
return has been calculated.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4384-CO, May 12, 1983.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO AGROPECUARIO
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$63.4 million to help finance an agri-
cultural research and extension project. The loan would have a term of 17
*        years, including four years of grace, will bear a front-end fee of US$182
thousand and carry interest at the rate of 1/2% per annum over the cost of
the Bank's Qualified Borrowings.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3556-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in September 1981. An economic mission visited Colombia
in July 1982 and its report will be distributed to the Board shortly. This
section reflects the mission's major findings. Country data sheets are
presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably.  The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in inter-
national capital markets.



4.        Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.4% on average during the
1950-81 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0% to 3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in
fertility. Colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of
2.0%. As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing
years, this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the early
1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 4 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality fell
to 56 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 79% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have
experienced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in
recent years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding



- 3 -
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping
the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1% of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy.  Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the increas-
ing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export incen-
tives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints were
relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest rates
on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls.  To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new



- 4 -
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 4% in
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the external economic situation took a turn for the worse
and the problems continued into 1982. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5% in 1981 fell to 1% in 1982. Agricultural output was hard-hit in 1982
as the production of coffee, cotton and oil seeds dropped sharply as a result
of low international prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse weather.
Industrial activity remained stagnant on account of depressed aggregate
demand, and unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly in manu-
facturing. After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in
the resource balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion, with a similar outcome
estimated for 1982. The latter year's deficit resulted mainly from a drop in
real exports by about 6%: major reasons were the slowdown in world demand
and the reduction in Colombia's coffee export quota in the International
Coffee Agreement. Although net foreign exchange reserves declined by about
US$800 million, Colombia's net international reserves were still equivalent
to nearly eleven months of imports of goods and non-factor service at year
end. Inflation began to slow at the end of 1982, leading to a 25% average
for the year. Towards the end of 1982 the Government introduced a series of
measures designed to stimulate aggregate demand. The rate of peso devalua-
tion was accelerated to improve competitiveness abroad, the housing construc-
tion industry was provided with incentives to mobilize an increasing amount
of resources, open market operations were discontinued to increase liquidity
in the economy, and in early 1983 the stabilization measures introduced in
1977 began to be dismantled, while at the same time the Government proposed
legislation designed to reduce the fiscal deficit.
Development Strategy
11.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives is set forth in the recently formulated Estrategia Global de
Desarrollo. This strategy emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of
expanding the benefits of development to Colombia's population. This is to
be achieved through increasing participation of all social and regional
groups in the process of economic growth. The strategy also places high
priority on the resumption of growth while maintaining price stability. The
strategy strengthens the previous emphasis on export promotion as a means of
supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and
on policy measures designed to increase economic efficiency and raise insti-
tutional capacity. It proposes a continuation of the large effort in public
investment, giving high priority to energy and agriculture projects and to
the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic decentralization,
regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth centers through improved
transport, communication and financial links are directed towards creating an
integrated national market. The development plan's strategy also places
emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and commercial agriculture as a
means of diversifying and increasing exports, assuring adequate domestic food



- 5 -
supplies, holding down inflation and contributing to the Government's nutri-
tion and welfare goals.  Industrial policy objectives are to provide an envi-
ronment of certainty, along with adequate credit and infrastructure, so that
entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and expand output. Because of its
benefits in opening foreign markets, creating employment and bringing in new
technology, private foreign investment is to be encouraged. The financial
sector is also to be strengthened. The Government's approach to helping the
poor takes on a new orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its
efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency in the use of resources,
broadening coverage of services and strengthening the social service institu-
tions. Programs in the housing, health, and education sectors are to be
better focused and integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged
groups, such as workers in the informal sector, children and unemployed
youth, are singled out for special attention.  Combined with a significant
expansion in construction of low-income housing and the extension of the
Integrated Rural Development (DRI) program, the new directions given to
social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income
groups in Colombia.
12.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976, and by 1984 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 21% of total merchandise exports. In
the absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a
major constraint on growth later in this decade.  Resolution of the energy
problem depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic
energy resources--hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon
increasing petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing
this will require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with
energy resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, suffi-
cient domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened
sector institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying
out of investments. Although planning and policy making have improved sub-
stantially in many energy sector institutions in recent years, further
improvements in overall sector planning and coordination are needed. A
recently completed National Energy study carried out by the Government is
providing the basis for seeking such improvements. Additionally, recent oil
pricing decisions have gone a considerable way towards providing the correct
signals for regulating consumption and encouraging production. The prices
paid to producers (primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new"
crude provide adequate production incentives, and the retail prices of petro-
leum products have been increased substantially in recent years, which on the
whole reflect international levels.
13.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need



-6-
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
14.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth, affecting particularly the develop-
ment of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The State
Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and reha-
bilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the
country's infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share
of future investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the
ongoing Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
15.       A large increase of public sector investment will be required in
the next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1983-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 8% p.a. in real terms, The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, sizeable real increases in investment are also expected in the
small- and medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry
(including mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall,
public fixed investment is projected to average 9% of GDP during the 1983-86
period, and is expected to total Col$1,800 billion (about US$15.3 billion).
Private investment will have to increase also during this period to provide
the goods and services required by the expanding economy.
16.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of measures to
tackle some of these issues has been recently presented to Congress for its
approval. Since this effort is expected to coincide with increased private
sector demand for investment resources, the importance of measures to expand
domestic savings cannot be over-stressed. The recent capital market libera-
lization should encourage savings. A significant increase in voluntary
private savings is not likely, however, as long as inflation remains high.
Consequently, stabilization remains a sine qua non for the country's future
growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably good and
significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated. However, because
of the decline in coffee prices and the weakening in exports caused by the
international recession, in addition to the need to increase imports to



develop the country's resource potential and restore higher economic growth,
the current account deficit of the balance of payments is projected to
average US$2.7 billion per year during 1983-86, equivalent to 6% of GDP.
Over a third of the deficit is projected to be financed by reducing foreign
exchange reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this
period, net official international reserves would have fallen to a level
slightly over four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 4.2% during this period. Beyond 1986, the current account
deficit should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particu-
larly coal) and a leveling-off of imports. The current account deficit would
gradually fall to less than 4% of GDP by 1990, To achieve real GDP growth of
4.2% per annum during 1983-86, gross fixed investment will have to expand to
about 25% of GDP, up from 19% in the early and mid 1970s and 22% in recent
years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross
national savings would need to average about 20% of GDP.
18.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total US$11.7
billion in current prices for the 1983-86 period, for an annual average
requirement of about US$3 billion. Net foreign investment is expected to
account for US$1.8 billion during 1983-86e Direct capital inflows should
provide about US$0.1 billion. The total of these inflows should provide
about 16% of the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 84%
(US$9.8 billion) about US$4.1 billion (over two-fifths), has been either com-
mitted or is expected to be secured from multilateral and bilateral sources,
while the difference, US$5.7 billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from
financial markets.At the end of 1981, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$5.1
billion, equivalent to 11% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 23%. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing from commer-
cial sources, this share is expected to remain below 25% during 1983-86. The
public debt service ratio at the end of 1981 was 16% and is expected to climb
to 23% by 1986, peak at about 28% in 1989 and then decline gradually. The
World Bank's share in public debt service is expected to remain below 25%
during 1983-86. With continued sound economic and financial management,
Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the
1983-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 99th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,601.1 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1983, US$2,834.4
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 63 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-
77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased to US$215 million in 1980 and
US$250 million per year in 1981 and 1982, reflecting the higher level of com-
mitments in the late 1970s. While disbursements in Colombia have been slower



- 8 -
than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects, con-
centrated efforts to overcome problems to initiate project execution has
resulted in significant increases in the disbursement record over the last
eight months. The gradually improving performance of social sector institu-
tions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of
inflationary pressures, which should allow relaxation of fiscal restraint,
and the increased Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point to a
higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and
underwriting commitments of US$80.7 million in 27 enterprises and, as of
March 31, 1983, it held US$21.9 million. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983
and a brief report on the status of the 35 ongoing projects.
20.       During the past 17 years, Bank lending to Colombia has become quite
diversified. While before 1966, 22 loans out of a total of 25 loans made to
Colombia were for power and transport projects, since then, from a total of
73 loans only 21 have been made to these sectors. In addition, all four
loans for education, 13 of the 15 loans for industry, 14 of the 16 agricul-
tural loans, one loan for nutrition, two loans for urban development and all
nine loans for water supply and sewerage, were made after 1966. The diversi-
fication was indeed a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a
broader range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has
served to identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one
and, thus, to enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presence can have a meaningful impact.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY82 consisted of loans for watershed
management, railways, highways and rural development totalling US$291.3 mil-
lion equivalent. In addition to the loan presented in this report, the FY83
program includes an already approved loan for rural education and a loan for
coal engineering. Work is also underway on projects for electric power,
agricultural diversification, agricultural marketing, fertilizers, water
supply and sewerage, irrigation and drainage, and ports for possible con-
sideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
22.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy,
a sizeable part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist in the development of coal mines which hold potential to
help Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in diversifying
exports. Bank financing in the energy sector would also assist in
strengthening major institutions and in mobilizing external finance, particu-
larly through the launching of a new power sector development facility, as
most of the projects would require substantial cofinancing. Qther future
loans would finance agriculture and industry to support the Government in its
efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to increase
and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank
lending for infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-
regional flow of goods and services. Finally, several loans are being pre-
pared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the
Colombian population. Proposed lending for rural electrification, further
rural development, agricultural credit, water supply and sewerage, and
irrigation projects are principally designed to improve the standard of
living of the poor.



-o g -
23.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had decreased
since then to some 60% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to decline
further to about 30% of external capital requirements during the eighties.
Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to projects with a poverty
orientation and has financed projects in low-cost housing, urban and rural
development, settlement, university education, water supply, rural electrifi-
cation and land erosion control. In the future, it proposed to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
,phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III--THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION1/
Sectoral Performance and Problems
24.         Agriculture remains the most important sector in the Colombian
economy, accounting for roughly one quarter of GDP. Within the sector, crops
and livestock products contribute about 53% and 40% respectively to the gross
value of production, the rest being derived from forestry, fishing and other
rural activities. Agricultural activities provide employment for some 2
million people, representing about 27% of the national labor force. Further-
more, the sector has contributed between 68% to 75% to the total registered
export earnings of the country in recent years. Coffee continues to be the
largest export item, although the combined share of other agricultural
categories--such as bananas, fresh-cut flowers, tobacco, cotton and cattle--
in total registered commodity exports has risen to about 20% in 1981, while
coffee's share has fallen from over 60% during 1977-80 to about 48% in 1981.
25.       In the past two decades agriculture grew at an estimated annual
rate of nearly 4%, which was about one percentage point below the growth rate
for the economy as a whole. The sector's growth rate since 1979, however,
has slowed down to 2-3% annually. During the last two decades 55-60% output
growth was derived from area expansion, except for coffee, for which output
growth was primarily obtained from yield increases. The yields of land under
major export crops is comparable with international average levels but for
many other commodities, especially food crops, yields remain low and the
scope for improvements in these cases is substantial. Performance of live-
stock has been disappointing, with little productivity increases recorded in
beef and milk production over the last decade.
1! A Sector Memorandum entitled "Colombian Agriculture. Selected Issues and
Some Directions for Strategy" (No. 4275-CO, dated January 31, 1983) has
been circulated separately to the Executive Directors.



- 10 -
26.       The output expansion in the 1970s was, to a large extent, driven by
external factors such as high international prices for coffee.  In the 1980s,
on the other hand, the international economic environment facing many agri-
cultural commodities has changed dramatically:  prices of coffee and other
important export commodities (cotton, rice, sugar, bananas, fresh-cut
flowers, and beef) have declined substantially. At the same time, internal
demand at present is not growing as fast as in the past as a result of a
downturn in the domestic economy. Agricultural input costs remain high,
partly on account of high domestic cost of importation and internal trans-
portation. At the same time, real wages in rural areas have been rising for
some time, which together with recent increases in the real minimum wage for
agricultural workers, have led to higher costs of labor, increases in overall
production costs, and in many instances a squeeze on profits of agricultural
producers. Although technological progress has been significant in strength-
ening profitability in the case of coffee and a few other export crops, its
overall impact for the non-coffee commodities has been inadequate. On the
other hand, since the incorporation of new areas into farming has begun to
require much greater investment than in the past, and the labor force in
rural areas is stagnant if not declining, future output growth will have to
be derived increasingly from improvements in the productivity of land and
labor based on the adoption of new technologies. Specifically, this will
require strengthening of existing agricultural research and extension
efforts, and the provision of greater farmer training to upgrade the sector's
human capital. A description of some of the existing efforts in research and
extension, their salient problems and selected policy options are reviewed
below.
Agricultural Research and Extension
27.       Agricultural research can be traced back to the 1870s, and since
then has evolved through an intricate network of public and private sector
research stations. Today, while the bulk of agricultural research is being
carried out by ICA, especially with regard to food crops, specific commodity
research efforts are performed by a number of producers' federations. Among
these, the most effective operations are carried out for coffee and sugarcane
by CENICAFE and CENICANA respectively. These two institutions account for
20-30% of total expenditures for agricultural research. ICA coordinates its
research activities with these institutions, and occasionally carries out
contract research for them.
28.       Agricultural research efforts have deteriorated during the last
decade mainly because of a neglect of agriculture in general, and of under-
funding of research in particular. During the 1970s the amount devoted to
agriculture in the Government's national investment declined by an annual
rate of 7% in real terms and presently stands at about 8%,  Total agricul-
tural research expenditures by ICA, CENICAFE and CENICANA as a percentage of
GDP in agriculture (at factor cost) declined from 0.36% in 1970/71 to about
0.25% from 1974 until 1981. This proportion may be compared with an average
of 0.42% for middle-income Latin American countries.
29.       The impact of agronomic research and extension, while varying sig-
nificantly across commodities, has had a beneficial effect on the achievement
of: (a) increased technical efficiency (e.g., increased yields); (b) change



I- it 
in the composition of agricultural output; (c) reduced production risk (e.g.,
lessened variability in yields); and (d) lowering production costs. These
achievements have benefited producers and consumers to varying degrees, but
the impact, nevertheless, has been insufficient to stem the decline in the
international competitiveness of the Colombian agriculture in general, and to
keep food prices from rising at a rate higher than that of inflation. Today,
the market prices of a number of agricultural commodities (maize, soybeans,
sorghum, wheat, beans and barley), are above border price levels by more than
50%, and are sustained at such levels by import restrictions and by high
internal transportation costs. Also, for several crops, there is a danger
that yields cannot be sustained, unless plant breeders and pathologists con-
tinue developing varieties that are resistant to newly developing pests and
diseases. However, it is in the areas of cultural practices such as time of
seeding, land preparation, water and fertilizer use and pest control, where
special efforts are required to develop research recommendations that are
adapted to location-specific ecological and socio-economic circumstances and
can thus have an impact on the output of a great number of producers. In
livestock, although progress has been made in veterinary research, animal
nutrition, pasture and forage management, and beef cattle and dual-purpose
cattle, research and extension efforts have to be expanded to increase milk
yields and improve herd productivity.
30.       Agricultural extension activities are highly fragmented, with res-
ponsibilities spread among a number of public and private institutions. For
many years extension services were provided almost exclusively for the
medium- to large-scale farmers, and they are closely linked to the provision
of agricultural credit. Without an approved plan by an authorized extension
agent, a farmer cannot obtain credit from major financial intermediaries. In
the past 10 to 15 years, however, the focus of public sector extension
agencies has shifted towards small-scale farmer, while large farmers continue
to benefit from commodity oriented private and semipublic producer federa-
tions. The reorientation of the public extension agencies towards the
smaller farmers was part of the Government's strategy to increase the avail-
ability of low-cost foodstuff to the lower income groups in urban areas.
This strategy was translated into two multisectoral programs, the National
Food and Nutrition Program and the Integrated Rural Development Program
(DRI). Under the DRI program, which aims at developing the production poten-
tial of small-scale farms of less than 20 ha, extension services of ICA have
been strengthened and widely expanded to cover about one-quarter of the small
farmer population. The principal shortcoming in the technology transfer
process, besides its limited coverage, is a lack of a comprehensive and
up-to-date information data base on existing farmers, their dominant systems
of production, location and resource endowment. This makes it difficult to
design and direct efficient extension methods for farmers with differing
resource endowments, and reduces the speed of the diffusion and adoption
process.
Government Strategy and Institutional Framework
31.       In its strategy to revitalize the economy, the Government has
accorded high priority to policies for agricultural and rural development,
recognizing that ample untapped potential exists for such development. More
rapid agricultural expansion is intended to meet the goals of achieving a



- 12 -
fast rate of economic growth, greater price stability, export promotion,
import substitution and more employment generation. Such emphasis, however,
also recognizes the sectoral and macroeconomic constraints that have been
emerging in the 1980s: low international prices for major exports, depressed
domestic economy, lagging yields and profitability in the sector.
32.       The formulation and execution of agricultural policy and public
sector programs is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and
within it, the Agricultural Sector Planning Office, which has the respons-
ibility for planning and coordinating activities of the 18 decentralized
institutions of the sector. This office maintains a close relationship with
the agriculture and budget divisions of the National Planning Department,
since the latter has to approve the sector's development plan and investment
program. The Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) is responsible for
agricultural research and extension, and for these purposes collaborates with
other public and private entities, particularly credit institutions. The
Agricultural Marketing Institute is responsible for the marketing and pricing
of food grains. Other key agricultural institutions include: the Colombian
Agrarian Reform Institute, which carries out programs of land distribution
and farm support; the Natural Resources Institute, which is mainly
responsible for conserving land, river basins and national forests; and the
Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement, which is in charge
of irrigation and drainage works. The bulk of agricultural credit is
provided by Caja Agraria (CAJA) and the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario, a
rediscount window of the Bank of the Republic, from which funds are on-lent
by banking institutions. In addition, there are other sources of agricul-
tural credit such as the Banco Ganadero, which finances principally live-
stock; the Banco Cafetero, which finances coffee and crop diversification;
the Corporacion Financiera de Fomento Agropecuario y Exportaciones, which
lends principally for export agriculture and agro-processing; and the
Colombian Agrarian Reform Institute which, through CAJA and Banco Ganadero,
makes available credit to agrarian reform beneficiaries. Agricultural inputs
are mostly provided by the private sector.
33.       In order to help realize the sector's potential and to restore its
competitiveness in international markets, the Administration, as part of an
ongoing policy dialogue with the Bank, has been reviewing policy options that
can influence sectoral performance, especially through trade policies and
policies in input and output pricing. In particular, added incentives are
sought to be provided for production to check the rapid increases in food
prices. Towards these goals, the Administration seeks to: (i) contribute to
advances in the technical and managerial efficiency of agricultural pro-
ducers, (ii) strengthen the institutions and industries with supply of tech-
nical knowledge, inputs, and credit, and (iii) increase the allocation of
public resources in carefully selected areas, such as generation and diffu-
sion of agricultural technology, irrigation development, watershed manage-
ment, crop and livestock development, marketing, credit and provision of
inputs. These are areas where individual producers may not have the needed
technical expertise, and find it difficult to finance the required invest-
ments, partly because they are too expensive in relation to their operations,
and the resulting benefits are likely to be widely shared and cannot be fully
captured by those financing those investments.



- 13 -
34.       Starting in 1979, ICA and the National Planning Department were
requested to analyze the shortcomings of agricultural research, with parti-
cular regard to food crops, and to present recommendations on how to improve
the existing situation. As part of their findings, they recommended a react-
ivation of the National Council and Fund for Research and Technological
Development of the Agricultural Sector. This proposal is now under active
study; the intent would be to draw the private sector into more active parti-
cipation in agricultural research. The principal document that resulted from
the analysis carried out by the two institutions is the National Plan for
Agricultural Research of ICA (PLANIA) which, endorsed by the Administration,
forms the basis for this project. The transfer and adoption of agricultural
technology is to undergo a similar comprehensive review. This review will be
financed under this project and it should lead to a substantial shortening of
the time-lag between the development of agricultural technology and its
adoption.
Bank Strategy
35.       From 1950 to 1965 the Bank made only two loans for agriculture in
Colombia, each totalling US$5.0 million. Since 1966, lending to the agricul-
tural sector has been intensified, and the Bank has made 13 loans totalling
US$349.6 million equivalent. Three of these loans have been for agricultural
credit, two for livestock development, two for colonization, three for
irrigation/drainage, two to support the DRI and one for a pilot watershed
management project. Most of the projects have focused on increasing produc-
tivity, incomes and welfare of small farmers and at strengthening public
sector institutions. Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for
five of them, including Loans 502-CO, 624-CO, 651-CO, 739-CO and 849-CO. In
addition, an Impact Evaluation Report was issued in 1982 on the Atlantico
Irrigation Project. While these projects were by and large successful, the
irrigation and drainage projects experienced some technical difficulties and
were hampered by institutional weaknesses of the Colombian Agrarian Reform
Institute. Although none of these projects provides experience of direct
relevance to the proposed project, they enabled the Bank to learn about the
legal and administrative systems operating in this sector. These experiences
have been of assistance in preparing the present project.
36.       In the years ahead, it is intended to provide close support to the
Government's agricultural strategy and its drive to modernize the less
advanced small-scale farmers. Actions are under way to widen the lending
program to encompass technological, research, extension and supply aspects of
input use, the diversification of agricultural output, and its processing and
marketing. In addition, it is planned to strengthen key sector institutions
through investments in irrigation and drainage, watershed management, and in
the livestock subsector and to continue to support the Government's rural
development efforts.
The Borrower--ICA
37.       ICA is the successor organization to the Division of Agroeconomic
Research in the Ministry of Agriculture. It was established in 1963 and is
one of the many decentralized agencies reporting to the Minister of Agricul-
ture, who serves as chairman of its Board. Other Board members are the Chief



- 14 -
of the National Planning Department; the General Manager of the Colombian
Agrarian Reform Institute; the Manager of the Coffee Producerst Federation;
the Rector of the National University; a representative of the National
Association of Small-Scale Farmers; and two members designated by the
President of the Republic. This structure ensures participation by the
national representatives of the main users of research results, but has been
insufficient for local involvement of farmers in the shaping of research
priorities or in the practical interpretation of the results of investiga-
tion. This issue would be addressed by the present project. ICA is
currently responsible for all public agricultural research, extension and
graduate agricultural education, as well as for a number of regulatory and
service functions which previously had been carried out directly by the
Ministry of Agriculture. These functions include plant and livestock quaran-
tine; the regulation and inspection of farm inputs, the certification of
seeds; and rural development. ICA will be divested of these responsibilities
as noted in Part IV.
38.        The institute is directed by a General Manager operating through
(a) five sub-managers responsible for departments of research, rural develop-
ment, crop production, animal production and administration; and (b) nine
regional managers each of whom has overall administrative responsibility for
all ICA activities within defined areas of the country. Research activities
are carried out at 27 research centers and stations distributed throughout
the farming areas of the country: four national research centers and one
national veterinary laboratory; 12 regional centers and one regional veterin-
ary laboratory; and nine experiment stations. The research activities are
coordinated with, and sometimes partially funded by, private institutions
that conduct commodity specific research. Strong linkages have also been
developed between ICA and several of the international research centers of
the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). In
addition, ICA has 30 diagnostic centers for animal diseases, and 13 labora-
tories which provide services for the livestock sub-sector. Other comple-
mentary services provided by ICA are a livestock quarantine station at
Barranquilla; a specialized agricultural library; and a program for post-
graduate training in agricultural sciences in association with the National
University, where annually some 100 Colombian and foreign students are
trained to the MS level.
39.        At the end of 1982, ICA had a staff of about 5,800; 1,200 had pro-
fessional qualifications, including 50 PhDs and 413 MSs. Only 2,200 of the
ICA staff were directly engaged in the work of the research department with
some 39 with professional qualifications. Approximately 70-75% of ICA's
resources are budgetary contributions from the Government with the remainder
coming from ICA sales and services, private sector funds and external funds.
Its total volume of operations in 1981 amounted to about US$44.3 million
equivalent, and US$15.7 million for its research department.' Of these
expenditures approximately 70% were for personnel costs. This level of
staffing for research was considerably below that of the early 1970s with
expenditure for ICA's research department declining in constant pesos from
1970 until 1977. Only since 1978 have expenditures in real terms increased
again, but in 1982 they were still about 13% below their 1970 level.
40.        ICA's main problems in its research and extension functions relate
to the proliferation of its duties and responsibilities, especially since



15 -
1968. This gradual overburdening of the institution with diverse functions
led to a multipurpose organization that is difficult to manage. Also, sub-
stantial underfunding (estimated at 25-40%) has led to a series of negative
side effects: inability of the institution to attract and retain high
calibre staff; severe imbalance in the ratio of salaries to operating
expenses; incomplete and flawed experiments; reluctance by private sector
entities to contract with ICA for research because it has lacked the staff
and basic facilities; undue emphasis on commercial farm production on experi-
ment stations as a source of revenue; reduction of research contacts with the
international agricultural research centers, such as CIMMYT and CIAT, and the
declining capacity of the national agricultural research system to adapt
fully and utilize technologies being developed abroad. The above factors,
combined with a lack of clearly established policy objectives for agricul-
tural research and extension, have also resulted in some research activities
that were not always sufficiently well defined or of direct relevance to pro-
ducers' needs and national priorities. The project as designed will overcome
these problems: clearly defined objectives for ICA's research efforts were
established; the institution will be adequately staffed and funded; and it
will be divested of its regulatory and control functions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was prepared by ICA.  Following three prepara-
tion missions the project was appraised in November/December 1982, Negotia-
tions for the proposed loan were held in Washington from April 25 to April
29, 1983 with a Colombian delegation led by Dra. Cecilia de Rodriguez, Vice
Minister of Agriculture and Dr. Jorge Serpa, Director of Public Credit,
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Colombia--Agricultural Research and Extension Project I" (No. 4384-CO dated
May 12, 1983 is being circulated separately. A loan and project summary is
placed at the front of this report. Supplementary project data are provided
in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Research Strategy
42.       The proposed project is aimed at increasing the capacity of the
Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) to improve and expand its research and
technology transfer activities so as to assist the country in raising its
agricultural output at competitive costs.  To this end, the activities to be
carried out under the project will be geared towards: (i) intensifying agri-
cultural research for the most important commodities; (ii) promoting the dis-
semination and application of results of agricultural research and carrying
out studies on technology transfer; and (iii) training scientific and tech-
nical personnel for service within ICA and the agricultural sector as a
whole.
43.       Following a comprehensive review of production constraints and the
status of agricultural research in the country and abroad, carried out by the
Government and ICA, in consultation with private crop and livestock pro-
ducers, priorities have been established for specific commodity research
programs and projects. The principal criteria used were: (i) the relative



- 16 -
importance of each product (i.e., in food expenditure), taking into account
estimated future income elasticities of demand; (ii) the importance (share)
of the product in Colombia's value of exports; and (iii) the intensity of
labor use (labor requirements per hectar) as a "proxy" for the social import-
ance of each product. Based on each of these criteria the main agricultural
commodities were ranked. These rankings were then combined in a single
general priority index by using weights of .5, .25, and .25 for the abovemen-
tioned criteria respectively, which reflect broadly the Government's overall
economic and agricultural development policies. For reasons of limited
financial and human resources, and excluding those export crops for which
research is already being carried out by producers' organizations (mainly
coffee and sugar), it was decided that research efforts under this project
should concentrate on the most important commodities as defined by this
index.  The following programs were selected and their order of priority is:
beef and dairy products; horticultural products; cocoa; cotton; maize; rice;
sugarcane (panela); plantains; grain legumes; potatoes and cassava; perennial
oil crops; poultry and tobacco. In addition, there will be a special
associated and multiple cropping research program to determine the farming
systems most appropriate to raising the standards of living of small-scale
farmers.
44.       The process of identifying research priorities for each commodity
was carried out in four steps: (i) regionalization of the country into
"ecologically homogenous zones"; (ii) characterization of each region and
analysis of the principal production systems that are found in them; (iii)
identification and analysis of the main "technological constraints" that have
a negative impact on the production or productivity levels of the different
products, under the specific environmental conditions that characterize each
region; and (iv) identification and analysis of potential research topics or
issues that were considered to be important to solve the technological con-
straints faced by each product in specific regions. The first three steps
were carried out through a national survey on the basis of which a techno-
logical profile of the sector was formulated. The fourth step was carried
out through working groups established for each product, in which research
topics were decided upon in response to the technological constraints pre-
viously identified. Concurrently, a complete inventory of ICA's research
facilities was undertaken. Based on each station's importance for carrying
out the commodity research programs described above, 17 research centers and
stations were selected and their investment needs determined. This planning
process of identifying research priorities in the agricultural sector and for
each of the most important commodities, led finally to the definition of
specific research topics or projects to be carried out under this project.
As such, this comprehensive planning process with the participation of the
public as well as private sector, constituted a major reexamination of the
country's research objectives and has set a sound basis for the research
endeavour to be supported by this project.
45.       Most of the programs would concentrate on applied research to
resolve immediate problems faced by farmers.  Special emphasis would be given
to screening local and foreign genetic plant materials, as well as to
developing more efficient farming practices.  Research activities would also
include verification and demonstration of research results on private farms,
with responsibility shared by the producers and ICA, so as to improve their



- 17 
relevance and applicability to local conditions with their specific
problems. There would be little if any basic research into fundamental
biological and physical processes, but units specialized according to
scientific discipline would be maintained and strengthened to form elements
of multidisciplinary teams to carry out commodity-oriented research.
46.       The crop research programs would involve plant pathology, entomol-
ogy, physiology; soil science and plant breeding; similarly, the animal
research programs would involve animal physiology, genetics, production
systems, nutrition, pastures and forages, and veterinary sciences. In addi-
tion, the research efforts of ICA's agricultural engineering division would
be strengthened in particular to address the needs of small-scale farmers on
steep hillside in terms of management of land and water resources; crop har-
vesting, storage, and drying; and appropriate agricultural machinery.
Finally, ICA's technical support services (statistics and biometry, socio-
economic studies, library and communications) would also be upgraded to
better design and evaluate individual research projects.
47.       The execution of these programs calls for:  (a) rehabilitation and
equipping of existing laboratories and selected research and experiment
stations; (b) near doubling of overall staffing levels;2/ (c) training of
professional, technical support, service and administrative staff and
improvements in the remuneration of scientific staff to retain high quality
personnel; (d) provision of funds adequate to permit active research and the
effective transfer of technology, while properly maintaining the buildings,
equipment, vehicles and other facilities of ICA for agricultural research;
and (e) strengthening of the administrative and financial management of ICA,
including the development of effective systems for the management, access and
use of general and scientific information, and exchange of experience with
producers.
Project Components
48.       The project would be executed over a six-year period, beginning in
mid-1983, and would comprise the following components:
Research Stations and Programs: (A) the rehabilitation,
development and equipping of 15 existing agricultural
research stations and two veterinary laboratories (see
map); and (B) the establishment of one new agricultural
research station. The following types of investment
would be carried out: (a) water, power and telecommuni-
cation services; (b) land preparation, including drainage
and internal roads; (c) civil works for one new research
station, repairs and modifications to existing buildings,
and the construction of some minor buildings, such as
stores; (d) vehicles, machinery, furniture and equipment
for farm, office and laboratory use; and (e) library and
computing facilities.
2/ This level of staffing, phased-in over five years, would bring it back to
its level of the early 1970s.



- 18 -
Training--for about 270 staff at the post-graduate level
and providing short courses for about 250 research and
support staff. This academic training would lead to PhD
and MS levels and, depending on the requirements, be
undertaken inside or outside the country. The short
courses, up to three months, would take place at a
variety of institutions, including the international
research centers, especially CIAT, CIMMYT and CIP.
Consultant Services--national and international consultant
services totalling 14.5 man-years for scientific, tech-
nical, building design and management support to cover the
gaps in the currently available skills of ICA's
researchers.
Incremental Operating Costs--salaries and operating costs
for five years for about 300 new research staff and about
1,000 technical support staff, and a salary premium for
about 190 existing and about 230 new research workers with
PhD and MS qualifications to attract and retain high-level
staff.
Monitoring and Evaluation--activities to review and assess
periodically the research and technology transfer activi-
ties of ICA.
Technology Transfer--review of the national farm extension
systems and the preparation of a plan and policy document
(PLANTRA) as a basis for strengthening the farm advisory
services of ICA and other public and private institu-
tions. This study, commencing in April 1983, is expected
to be completed by the middle of 1984.
Implementation Arrangements
49.       Organization and Management.  The project would be an integral part
of ICA's overall research and technology transfer program. It would be
carried out through ICA's established administrative and technical divisions
coordinated by a unit to be formed for that purpose within the Office of
Planning with the assistance of three consultants. The unit would be headed
by a project coordinator and comprise the following three groups: (a) admin-
istration; (b) human resources; and (c) monitoring and evaluation. Pursuant
to a government decision in early 1983, ICA's functions of agricultural
development, regulations and controls would revert to the Ministry of Agri-
culture or be transferred to other public institutions of the agricultural
sector by the end of 1984. This should enable ICA to concentrate on agricul-
tural research and technology transfer, and thus on the central activities of
the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that ICA, jointly
with the Guarantor, would (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank for its com-
ments, by December 31, 1983, a plan of action for divesting ICA from any
regulatory and enforcement activities, and (b) not later than December 31,
1984, carry out such plan (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 19 -
50.       Planning for Implementation.  The overall priorities and strategies
for agricultural research described above were established at the end of 1982
to the level of particular commodity programs and individual research
centers, taking into account the absorptive capacity of ICA and the country's
capacity to sustain the prospective level of research. These programs are
expected to continue to be broadly the same throughout the execution of the
project and would be carried out by multidisciplinary teams at one or several
of ICA's 17 existing research centers and the one to be established under the
project.
51.       The planning and review of specific research programs and projects
would be carried out through: (a) research consultative committees and (b)
research review meetings. The former would be established for groups of com-
modity research programs and for each research center, and would comprise the
respective director of the research center or commodity research program as
chairman and farmers, research workers and extension agents. These commit-
tees would meet periodically to agree upon the nature of the problems requir-
ing investigation and to comment on the practical significance of research
results produced by the respective programs and stations. Research review
meetings would be reactivated to resume assessing the justification for ini-
tiating or continuing individual research projects. These meetings, which
had ceased to function because of lack of funds, are made up of the program
coordinator who presides it, a member of ICA's Statistics and Biometry
Division, a research worker from the division that proposes the research
project and two other members of ICA's staff. They are convened periodically
by the head of the corresponding division. In the course of the proposed
project, the same research review meetings would be resumed and thereafter
maintained. These meetings would include senior representatives of the
research divisions involved and would take into consideration the views of
the local research consultative committee and comments by the Bank and inter-
national scientists. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by no
later than December 31, 1983, ICA would establish and thereafter maintain the
research consultative committees described above, and by December 31, 1984
reestablish and thereafter maintain the abovementioned periodic research
review meetings (Section 3.04 and 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, at about two-year intervals there would be reviews of (a) ICA's
overall research strategy, and (b) ICA's commodity specific research objec-
tives and accomplishments in which scientists of international reputation
would take part. The first review of ICA's overall research strategy would
take place at the beginning of 1985 shortly after the completion of the
national study on technology transfer and extension (PLANTRA).  During nego-
tiations, an assurance to this effect was received (Section 3.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
52.       The transfer of funds for research programs, ICA's technology
transfer division, and for the development, maintenance and operations of
each research center or station would be done directly from ICA headquarters
to the director of the center or station where the expenditure is to be
incurred, and would not be channelled through the office of the regional
director of ICA as at present. Increased responsibility and autonomy would
thus be given to the directors of centers and stations to ensure that all
research work, demonstrations and seed production is carried out in accord-
ance with the needs of the surrounding farming community and consistent with



- 20 -
the overall national research and development strategy for the agricultural
sector, within the review procedures described above. In addition, small
working funds would be established and maintained for each of the Borrower's
research centers, research program and technology division to cover day-to-
day expenses. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the lines
of control and transfer of funds would be consistent with the proposals in
this paragraph (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Staff Training and Use of Consultant Services.  The Project
Coordinating Unit, through its human resources group, would maintain under
continuing review the skill-gap assessment conducted during appraisal for
each of ICA's work units involved with agricultural research, extension or
administration. This group would be responsible for locating training
courses for ICA staff in accordance with the continuing skill-gap assessments
and for external training; it would work in close collaboration with the
Colombian Institute for Educational Credit and Advanced Studies Abroad that
coordinates all training outside the country. In addition, this group would
be in charge of locating and hiring external consultant services in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). It
would be a condition of disbursement from the corresponding category of the
proposed loan that ICA had submitted a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the training of professional staff at the post-graduate level and the pro-
vision of short courses under the proposed project (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The plan would include (a) an outline program
with criteria for the evaluation of the effectiveness of training; and (b) a
format for quarterly reports to be submitted to the project coordinator. The
latter will include, among other matters, particulars on staff requiring
training, personnel under training, assessment of the quality and appro-
priateness of training received by returning staff, and related administra-
tive matters.
Diffusion of Research Results
54.       A key objective of the proposed project would be to improve the
flow of research findings to farmers, particularly the small-scale producers,
whose capacity and means to adopt new techniques is more limited than larger
farmers. To this end, ICA's communication division will be strengthened so
that it can be more effective in its role of transmitting research findings
in a suitable form to public and private institutions, which, in turn,
deliver the information to farmers. Also, within ICA, the coordination of
its Research Department with its Rural Development Department, that provides
direct extension advice to small-scale farmers under DRI, would be strength-
ened. More verification and demonstration trials on farmers' fields would be
jointly designed and managed by ICA's research and extension staff, and
frequent meetings would be held between the staff of the two departments.
Through the research consultative committees at the regional and local
levels, members of the farming community would be able also to learn directly
about the work being carried out at the research stations while presenting
their suggestions for further investigations. These activities would
strengthen the technical basis for ongoing integrated agricultural develop-
ment projects (Loans 1352-CO and 2174-CO), the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 1996-CO), and the Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1737-CO). The project would not be confined to a specific project area, but



- 21 -
most of the commodity research programs it includes have particular relevance
to the problems of the densely populated small farmer sector in the inter-
andean valleys.
55.       While the existing extension system can cover the short-term exten-
sion needs of a significant number of small-scale farmers, the authorities
have recognized the need to build up the extension services to ensure that
research findings are applied widely throughout the country. To this end, a
national study on the transfer of agricultural technology would be carried
out and financed under the proposed project. The Terms of Reference for this
study were discussed during appraisal and were agreed upon during negotia-
tions. This study, which should be ready by June 30, 1984, is expected to
provide a basis for a national strategy and action plan (PLANTRA) to improve
and coordinate all forms of technical assistance to the agricultural sector.
The Bank would take part in the review of the final plan. This plan would be
prepared by ICA with the assistance of the Government and should be finalized
by the end of 1984 to serve as a basis for an investment project for which
external financing would be required. Once results of PLANTRA become avail-
able, they would also be used as an input to review the research priorities.
Assurances to this effect were received during negotiations (Section 3.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
56.       The Project Coordinator would be responsible for monitoring and
reporting on operational progress for the duration of the proposed project,
according to a program previously agreed upon by the Bank. Progress report-
ing would be half-yearly and, upon the termination of the proposed project, a
draft project completion report would be prepared by the Project Coordinating
Unit and be submitted to the Bank. Evaluation of research results for each
program and station, and their relevance to the needs of the farming
community, would be evaluated by the research consultative committees (para.
52). The recommendations of the committees would be collated by the monitor-
ing and evaluation group of the Project Coordination Unit and used in the
planning of new research projects. Research results would be reviewed at
least biannually through ICA's internal research review meetings against the
stated research objectives for each commodity. The following special
analyses would be carried out as part of the evaluation of project activi-
ties: (a) impact of the commodity and farming systems research on production
in the major agricultural regions; (b) evaluation of individual lines of
research; (c) cost/benefit analyses of research programs where appropriate
and feasible; and (d) socio-economic effects of the application of new tech-
nologies. The recommendations arising out of these studies would be used to
refine ICA's research programs as required. In addition, by the end of 1984,
there would be the special review of research strategy and accomplishments of
ICA as a result of the national study on the transfer of agricultural tech-
nology (PLANTRA) referred to above and a comprehensive review of ICA's
research strategy and accomplishments by the end of 1988 (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$206.6
million, including contingencies, of which US$3.5 million are local taxes,
and the foreign exchange component is US$52.7 million, or 25% of total pro-
ject cost. These costs are based on December 1982 prices, and include
physical contingencies equivalent to 1.8% of total baseline costs (12% for
civil works and station development and 5% for equipment). Price contingen-
cies have been calculated separately assuming (a) local inflation rates of
23% in 1983, 22% in 1984, and 20% thereafter, and (b) annual escalation rates
for foreign costs of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% there-
after. A correction was also applied for expected exchange rate changes over
time.
58.       The average gross baseline costs per man-month of internationally
recruited consultant services are estimated at about US$6,200 for a total of
150 man-months and at half this rate for 24 man-months of local consultancy
services. Baseline training costs are equivalent to US$21,600 per man-year
(PhD) for a total of 198 man-years and to US$12,660 per man-year (MS) for a
total of 408 man-years.
59.       A Bank loan of US$63.4 million equivalent is proposed to finance
31% of total project costs, to cover the foreign exchange cost and US$10.5
million of local costs (5% of project costs). The remaining US$143.4 million
equivalent, or 69% of project cost, would be financed by ICA, mostly through
budgetary appropriations from the Government. After project completion, the
Government would continue to provide ICA with sufficient funds to sustain the
level of research efforts brought about under this project. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations (Section 3.04 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Local currency financing is recommended to give the
Bank a meaningful role in the project, and is in line with similar financing
participation provided by the projects in the agricultural sector, and other
operations with significant social impact in Colombia. A summary of project
costs and financing appears in the loan and project summary on page ii above.
Procurement and Disbursements
60.       Because of their limited size and scope, civil works contracts
totalling US$8.4 million, would be awarded according to local competitive
bidding procedures that are satisfactory to the Bank, with foreign bidders
having the opportunity to participate. The balance of civil works, about
US$1.0 million, would be carried out by force account. Vehicles and labora-
tory and other equipment, totalling US$27.1 million, would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of up to 15%, or the import duty, whichever is the lower. The
balance of farm and office equipment and furniture, totalling US$10.4 million
and research station and laboratory development investments (US$6.6 million),
would be procured in many dispersed purchases spread over five years under
local competitive bidding procedures. The services of consultants (US$1.2
million) would be engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines. The local and
foreign training program (US$12.7 million) would be executed through mostly
university services contracted abroad. Assurances were obtained during



- 23 -
negotiations that the procurement procedures specified in this paragraph
would be followed (Section 3.02, and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       In order to advance project execution, design studies for civil
works, other studies, consultant services and improvement to the library and
management information systems would be eligible for retroactive financing
for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1983, for a total not exceeding
US$1 million equivalent (Schedule 1, para. 4(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In an effort to facilitate rapid project execution, a working
fund would be established with US$1.0 million equivalent to cover about three
months of local expenditures.  The establishment of a special account for
such a fund would be a condition of effectiveness and the ordering by the
Government of the release of US$0.5 million equivalent would be a condition
f       of disbursement of US$0.5 million equivalent from the Loan Account to the
fund (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In order to allow for
the necessary time to complete the budgetary process, the Government would
have up to 30 days to deposit the monies in the special account. Subsequent
disbursements to replenish the fund would be carried out according to
standard Bank procedures, but provided that the Government has already
approved the release of ICA's share of the replenishment (Section 2.03(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Every six months, the Government, the Bank and
ICA would review the operation and size of the fund and agree on any
necessary changes (Section 2.03(f) of the draft Loan Agreement). As required
by Colombian law, project expenditures would be subject to ex ante control
and approval of the Comptroller General's staff, but in any case they would
also be subject to standard reviews by the Bank.
62.       Disbursements would be made for 100% of expenditures for civil
works (in the case of the new research station, only once detailed plans for
the carrying out of this component have been furnished to the Bank); 100% of
foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for (i) equipment,
materials, agrochemicals, spare parts, and furniture, and (ii) vehicles; 60%
of local expenditures for incremental operating expenditures to be financed
on a declining scale; 100% of expenditures for consultant services; 100% of
foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for local and foreign
training and studies; and 50% of the total cost of scientific premia to be
financed on a declining scale over five years.
Accounts and Auditing
63.       ICA would maintain separate project accounts for the proposed pro-
ject in accordance with sound accounting principles and methods, consistently
applied and in such detail as agreed to with the Bank. Consultancy services
would be contracted towards the end of this year to review, by June 30, 1984,
the existing system of accounting and to design a system to improve the pre-
sentation and flow of information to management (Section 5.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The project accounts and related basic financial statements
would be audited annually, in accordance with sound auditing standards, by
independent auditors appointed by ICA and acceptable to the Bank. The basic
financial statements, together with the independent auditor's opinion on
compliance by the Guarantor and Borrower with the obligations of the
Guarantee and Loan Agreements, would be forwarded to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 24 -
Benefits and Risks
64.       Much of the sector continues to employ traditional agricultural
practices and rudimentary technology, and more than one-half of the past
increases in agricultural production have been derived from area expansion.
This expansion of the agricultural frontier will eventually be constrained by
ecological conditions and by increasing transport and other costs. There-
fore, a steady improvement of Colombia's agricultural production and incomes,
especially among the small-scale producers, will require increasing and sus-
tained efforts to raise agricultural productivity and efficiency, and to
promote crop diversification. The proposed agricultural research project
would directly contribute to attaining these goals by strengthening ICA's
research planning and review mechanisms, and by providing the institution
with well trained staff, having adequate facilities and operating funds.
65.       The specific commodity and the multiple cropping research programs
and projects have been chosen in response to Government policies and priori-
ties, and according to the most promising research areas. Maize, wheat,
barley, triticale (hybrid between wheat and rye), beans, potato, cassava and
horticultural crops are principal food crops, grown by small- and medium-
sized farmers. Production of these crops is labor intensive. Milk cattle,
beef cattle, and dual purpose cattle have been selected for their importance
in satisfying the internal demand for milk and meat, and to increase beef
exports. The proposed research program, together with parallel Government
programs in rural development and land settlement, are expected to be of sig-
nificant benefit to a large number of farmers of all scales, especially
small-scale farmers in the interandean valleys and in agrarian reform and
colonization areas.
66.       Although it is not possible to estimate the benefits of a research
project of this type, in a sufficiently reliable manner to compute ex ante a
meaningful economic rate of return, there is evidence from Colombia and other
countries, based on the ex post calculation of rates of return on individual
research programs through increases in yields, that well-designed agri-
cultural research efforts have had economic rates of return as high as 90%
and commonly over 30% where suitable associated economic policies are being
carried out. The proposed project would have a major impact in strengthening
the organization and production orientation of Colombia's agricultural
research system. It would also assist ICA to consolidate its research
efforts and help ensure continuity in the improvement of research planning
and execution, to improve effective collaboration between private and
publicly funded research, and to strengthen the linkages between research and
extension services to cover sectorwide requirements for technological
improvements.
67.       Risks associated with the project lie with:  (a) the adequacy of
the linkages between research and extension services; (b) the difficulty of
reengaging experienced, former research staff at the planned rate; (c) the
efficiency of the mechanisms for research programming, administration,
coordination and review; and (d) the continuity in support for agricultural
research. The results of the study that led to the proposed project,
involved all parties concerned with the generation and diffusion of agricul-
tural technology and thus represents the consensus and commitment among
them. In addition, the review of the national agricultural extension system



- 25 -
will allow all relevant parties to focus on what improvements are needed
nationwide in this area. The Government is committed to follow up this study
with the required investments and other pertinent actions. The scientific
premium foreseen under this project should enable ICA to attract and retain
high calibre scientific staff, and the declining share of Bank disbursement
against the scientific premium for research staff would enable ICA to
gradually assume responsibility for these payments so that by the end of pro-
ject execution this cost would be fully borne by the institution. The
research programming, coordination, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms that
are in place will be strengthened during the course of project execution and
their effectiveness will be reviewed periodically. This should ensure that
research remains well focused and produces useful results. The assurance of
future funding for research will depend on the effectiveness with which the
proposed project responds successfully to the needs of farmers. The careful
attention to their problems, which is an essential feature of the institu-
tional reformation of ICA, should ensure that research is well focused. With
the competent staff already in ICA and the additional staff, facilities and
funds to be provided by the project, the prospects for generating significant
research results are good. This should ensure continuity of strong support
for agricultural reseach.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ICA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
69.       Principal conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A condition of effectiveness would be that a special account for the
working fund has been established by ICA.
70.       Conditions of disbursement under the respective categories would be
that (a) ICA has furnished to the Bank a plan of action for local and foreign
training; (b) ICA has prepared a comprehensive justification for the
establishment of one new research station; and (c) the Government has ordered
the release of its initial contribution to the special account (US$0.5
million).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 12, 1983



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page I
TABLE 3A
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEgGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. M.)                                                         M- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)W-   _
TOTAL          1138.9                               MOST RECENT            MIDDLE IC(E           MIDDLE INCOKE
AGRICULTURAL    356.0              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN         EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                260.0      430.0   1330. 0*                 1902.0                  2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    494.4      637.9    913.6                   1259.9                  2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 15754.0    21266.0  26426.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 48.2       59.8     70.2                    65.7                    47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    39.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      60.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KN.                      13.8        18.7     22.9                    35.2                    83.3
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.9        60.7     73.4                    92.5                   155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        46.8        46.2     36.7                    39.7                    31.1
15-64 YRS.                        50.3        51.1     60.0                    56.1                    61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.9         2.8      3.3                     4.2                     7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.1         3.0      2.3                     2.4                     1.6
URBAN                             5.7         5.2      3.9                     3.8                     3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.7        36.8     30.0                    31.4                    23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    13.6         9.7      7.9                     8.4                     9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.3         2.6      1.9                     2.1                     1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       115.4    142.1Ic
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..      46.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0       99.0    124.0                    110.0                   116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  97.7        89.1     97.5/c                 108.4                   125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         53.7        47.5     49.17T                  66.0                    92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      27.8        24.2     24.97T                  34.0                    35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    11.2        6.0       3.7                     5.6                     9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.1        58.9     62.8                    64.2                    67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          93.4       70.6      56.4                    64.2                    65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                            30.0/d     63.0      64.0/e                  65.6
URBAN                            54.971      88.0     73.0/ei                 78.9
RURAL                             6.87s     28.0      46.0/e                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ,,       47.0      44.4/e                  59.3
URBAN                              ..        75.0     60.0/e                  75.3
RURAL                              ..         8.0     14.0/e                  30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2638.9      Z189.5   1966.7/c                1617.3                  1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    4220.4/f   1486.1   1252.6/;i                1063.5                   634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL.                          362.9       449.4    619.1/c                 477.4                   286.8
URBAN                              ..       377.5    542.Ort                 679.8                   192.0
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        22.9     29.8/c                  27.3                    20.0
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          7/
URBAN                              ..        55
RURAL                              '.        5.97
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.81
URBAN                              ..         1.6/p
RURAL                              ..        2.47j
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            47.0/d      58.1/S
URBAN                            83.o7i     87.51
RURAL                             8. U7Z     13. 7      ..



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
COLO0BIA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAqES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  a
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA aC RIAlBEAN         EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                77.0       103.0    128.0                   104.3                   102.9
MALE                77.0       101.0    127.0                   106.4                    107.1
FEMALE              77.0       105.0    129.0                   103.3                    99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                12.0       24.0      46.0                    41.3                    60.2
MALE                13.0        24.0      46.0                   40.4                     66.4
FEMALE              11.0        24.0     47.0                    41.8                    54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 30.8/h      20.2     21.6/c                  33.7                    31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          37.6       38.2      32.5                    29.9                    25.8
SECOXDARY                        10.9        17.2     20.8                    16.7                    22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      63.0       80.8/,                            79.1                    75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        5.7        11.2     18.1/c                  42.8                    51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                      125.1       104.3    115.0                   270.5                   157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        9.5       38.1      76.6                   107.7                   123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                50.0         ,,      48.7                    63.7                   112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..        ..       2.9                     2.7                     4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    4726.5     6353.4   9006.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 19.2       24.8      24.7                    24.4                    36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            51.4        37.9     25.8                    31.3                    38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               19.2       21.0      21.2                    23.9                    25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.0       29.9      33.8                    33.6                    44.5
MALE                               48.8       45.1      50.8                    50.4                    56.3
FEMALE                             11.5        14.8     16.7                    16.8                    32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.7         1.6      1.2                     1.3                     0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.2/d i   31.9/1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS 67.77dT    60.17i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   2 17fi    3.57!i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   6.87    10.171*
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    214.0/c
RURAL                              ..         ..    197.0/1                  184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    267.0/c                 518.0
RURAL                              ..         ..    122.0O!                  371.1                   406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..         ..      34.O/c
RURAL                              ..         ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithietic  eans. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977;  /d 1964; /e 1976; /f 1962; /I 1973; /h Including teacher training at the third level;
/i Econ~omically active population.
* Updated data.
April, 1983



-28-                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3
DMPSIT%WS 0F SOCIAS INDICAIUM
Man    ltheagh the data are drann from sourc. geosraLly Jdged the net authoritative and roliabla. it should also he noted chat they soy wot he lacer-
catiolly camparble became. of the laok of atendordjued defiettioa and cocpts ned by different cewttlo  Socolctn   the data.  The dat. aer. ee-
th.lnos. *usful to descr.ibe corders of  oguitude, indicat  teods, and charater laee *tatn  -sio  diffnenoese betwee  cutootes..
The roforeou  gr-p.oare (l) rho o-    -tunry gtoop of the sabjeot ..a-tty and (2) a ocotacy gXoap wish eament higher averog  iac-               chas the  -oatry group
of rho subject eutrty (cacopt tot   'High toone   Oil tapoet-e" g-os  where "Middle Icom  fitch Africa sad Middl  zat" In chases beoaou  of  tranger
a_Ec-c_ltural afflicitie).  to the reference groap data the ovrafe  ace papolaciac weighted seichootic oann for each tdicator and shas  oly ehe.
eaoicIy of the  Ectig   to a  cop has daca fat that indlatar.  Since. the c-ovrge of cesocrie  ong the todiast-r  depeud  on tha avalahility af data
and is gac onr. cauion mat ha oesettisd In -inting a-eaagn  of use fdicatc  to anther. Then  -otagn  urn cuy unool. Lo cuepaniug the nice aS
eo indicator at a tier  -sog che o-utry and raf.resue groups.
AiM  (chauaad aq.hm.)                                                                        Peaint II. pe  Bmoelc1 Red - otatl. orha. an   ua  -Pplg c totl,
Total - Total oorfae  c. -    -priotig lead are  sad Salad wate.; 1979 data.                 aEbs, and  rare) divided by their repective ahor- of haspita1 hads
dAglaolt-rl - Satiate of agicultural are  used tepworaily or peomostly                       avalable S. poblic end private georl sad  p_ciliced haspitn1 andre
for cropa. pacors., mche  and khicohe, gardena Ot U0it  fWI; 1979 d-oa.                    hohilinatia   ceser .naPictsl arc ectblf.hnccta pe-ac ly staffed
by at laa.st on Phy.uLan. Etatbliehenuta praviding pef-ieuplly rcate-
GMP PER CAPITA (tiOl - SGNP pct capita catiatnaa  oute  -ceba  proc.. ca-                      diL1 once ace sot inclded.  1oe1 hospitals. ho-o-e  Lacide health
oulated hy st  ucvrl ethod ag World Baak Attnl                  7. 1 b           ss          and medical cente.  cat permnetly ecafaed by a phyaio Sa  (hut by a
1979 a        1  basis;    medical analotesi, sMe, mIwf.et.) which afec ic-patient ae-
1960,   197Q0               and    1981   data.                                                 t1i.c ted provide a liitcnd tang. at  edial feetitics.  Puntti
ENERGa CIDYIPERa   inT  - AeasnI o-auptica of  -uecia  norSy (ca                               tgeal P=eus   rban hooPicalo Saluda ligSo priacipal/general hoapicals,
and ligeife. petral-,n..ntural gaa ad hydr-,. saloar and geotheesi alec                      and rural honpitala. laoal or  nra-I h-upitalt sod --dital and matsrnity
toicity ) in iaraoof ...sI  quivalcut par raplta; 1960. 1970, *ad 1979                       unetern.  SpeotaLtad hanpitala urn inLuda4d osiy undnt tatn.L
data.                                                                                      Adm.iasic   erm0oaital Red - Tcta  .out- of cdmLsntLn  cc or diahorges
trohapital   Edivdd by th. caub-r of beds.
OPU5.ArTIO AND VITAL. STATISTICS
Tutol Pppclacio  MXid-Year (toosods) - A. of July 1; 1960. 1970,. ad 1981J               MOQSINGG
data.                                                                                   Aveag  floe of B-shl   pes            e hccod    teta., urban. sad rural-
IlrbanPputo II(porun  at total.I) -Rfti  of urban to total population;                      Arbhusbheld ronitro  agrupf            SdedaaWho ahar-  lvin  quarcoro
dittorut  cftttiua     or ea  oranuy uter.-  -uP-rbllity of date                     end thoic mc  -Ia..  A burder or ludgc  say Ic say ant ha icoaded Lo
ana   rcrc;1960. 1970. and 1990 data.                                             the household for atatieticol purpaoea.
PauaioProj-otf..                                                                     Averag  n,br of earer car rc-  -tta.1 urhac. and rura  -av-accon
pupuarir  is  cc   900- Cretpopulttos pe-jottiocs ace hated on 199(1                bec of perneou  pen noo  in all uba, ned ru1e otupind otsenion1
tarl  -upla.u  by ago amd gn and tb.er sortality and fertility ratg.                    delen   epoiay.Deltg   ald   o-peae aruua   n
Prujeetian parametra f, or,utality ratog rospriat af thr-  level  usage-                ucaoupied porta.
log Ife  up-ctanty ut birth ionn  with  -tru y's poe capita I---m                     A-ces to xleotritity  (purcont of doellisge) - ctatl. -rba. std erolI -
.r..., aud'oIc life espootany a-b1ieLog at 77.5 years.  The par.-                      tovsield"Telng  with el"tricity in living q-torno   an peroa..tafe
soro_ for ferility rote ama hav- throc lards anosig daclioc in                          of total, urban, nod rural doallioga rvapaottvly.
fortiuity srtudtrg to L Im  lent sod Paut Scully PI.icu g porf-rmante
Eaob -oatry La tbeuonn.igced  -noaf tbhc  ice cabiactiana uf sorca1ity              ifUCATIQf
nod fartilicy treudo f-r pr-jvtiuo purpue.                                            Adjuatad tu..olisn   Ratico
Stati_naryoplait- IIo a stotar-y Pplupatoi  ato. in no growth  isr-                       Priar=   shai    total. alc and fody - Cruon rtucl  -1b sad tf-lo
the birth rate in  qua1 to rho death race * acd also th  age ctroua-  re-                  osoleetofal ac  at the Prioory looc  no p-rcetagca of reapotive
sata  u-acat. t Th.ia to ahievd only at.tr frotiLitY races decline to                      prI-ay ahalaeP.oplatiocu;  -ueaIy iloldos childres aged 6-fL
the repiacon-  irnal of  Irf ca  r-pr-du-tico rac. nb        -hau  genertio               Year  but adjustd for different lengths of peinary ed..atian; for
ufworoplat-   rolt   cuar-tly.  The  tnaticuary popolacienatn  s                      o tsrlee  ith aivr-al adn-tico eaoiotsy eaueed 190 perceno
auincte  ccho basia of the prujeutedohrtrana of the papeILtian                           sfotc san  pupils ace heln ur abov  the  ffiioi1 ucoal age.
in nbe year 21000ni the rate of decline of footility race C0 ropiaca-                   Secondary ahoal - rural, sale and fosale - C-nputd an above;seodr
sort loon.                                                                                edoatin requirc  ut loeat four y-sr  of approved pricey los-trrica;
Yea  tratcuay popalation is roauhed - Th. year whoa acotionary popontlon                     pr_vd.a genera. v-ctioaal, ar teehe- tr-Wlg ina".tracian  fur popila
utnciib  ro_chd.                                                                     usnoly ai 12 tc 17 ycara at age; corsodnecaoacgesorally
fPuolutioc Denity                                                                              enldod.
Par no. ha.- Mid-y.u. poplat"as per  quara kiloner-  100 hectacas) of                     urtianel corllsot (Perce..c of .....adary) - Vo..attena  ioatitnioa
total are; 1960, 19 70 aud 1979 data.                                                   include trheical.  adcrl,or ath-r progran  which uprat  indpeud-
Pot n. h. arltutura  lad -Cuepatod an abe  tE-  gricultural land                    rudy a  adeetsoof acondt                   tttot
Puy;19"        1970 oAd 1979 dat.                                                      Popil-teauer rtio- ocnr.adsc.dr,                    oo   udet   naldi
t'paacri Ago Structure (oeroc..t) - Children (0-14 years) * working-age (1)-             peoery gad   -droday Icr-la divided by nu-br- of t-earer  in the
64 yearn) , and retired (65 yenra anduc)0  per-tucgen of  id-yano ppu-                     earreapaudingleo.
latius;  l196   1970, cad 1990 data                                                     AdultliPterac y rate f(prcot..t  - Litecate odubta (able tc read sad write)
fop _ain   fr ht Ste  pret   total - A--Ia groeth retn  uf -tot1 mid-                  ana       _toeoge ci  tol adult pnpol.atio  aged 15 pyora end over.
yea,rtpaulaio far 1950460, 1960-70, and 1970-60.
Poplto  Irnth  Ratr (poore_t) - u_.. - Annea  growth ratna of urban pop-                C0MIs(PTION
lotto.n fur 19060 96-0  and 197040.                                                     Pssaesae Cao(rae  chouod poplralatt) - Peasnger oars osupiamco
Crd    ..chtt  (per. thouand  - A--Ia live birth. par te...aad at mid-year            aasetig Loss thac eight peraun; ocldas osbula...., heaan  ad
Ppupulatno   960170  and 1900 data.                                                       utliturz   oils
Cr-de Death StM(e (c  hono)     acL dotape   bnnu    i  i-ea                                ai R.eivars (per tho.osa.d puouLatio)   A- A   typaa of receiwor  for radio
posaic   960. 1970, and 1900 dare.                                                  heradtoata to general psblit per thonoand of ppoplucion; ecoldro a--
iRoo  ocoductins Oatc-kAnrugr ustr ci d-ughcr0. noe ill hbat in                           li-ead unttne-  in oratria  and in yIru shea.oltoto  of radio
her usIaI r-pr-d-uti   Perio  if she enperiene..  preset  ge-epoeific far-                 ants was Seffect; data far recant yeara soy nut he coparable sinue
riiyrae;aaal  fieya   avrage   ndig in 1960. 1970, and 19ff.                         eot .oatriac abolihid licesaiig.
pandAs Plcnin-Aictt. fn.l (thuss   A-.Annua  buee of  -ttpto-                              TV Reocive-  (per thaunod rps--iatta) - TV coeiv-r  fur br-d-tuct
of bith-rorruldevics nudr aupice  of utional faily ploentg prcg-s                  gesatal public per thooned popuitios; colden uslicond TVreivs
Pamiy Pluoin  - Iern  p      fontoio-rdd wo-     - Pnccnetage of marrid               in coaortes ted to yenro when, regitroti-of TV gets wa  in effert.
wofa atuhld-hoaring oge (15-44 y-ar) ohs se  bioth-c.otro1  dayton to                Neow,a-a-- Cralacn   (prbhusn  popsletien) - Sbows the average oft-
all tarried wo-  in sat  ago group.                                                       toato  of 'dn    eealitre  oewpapcr' detlsd asap-rodloa
publication danotd poimarily to racodiug gaera  -es   Ito ia ceidecad
rOOt) AND gTTngNo                                                                              cc he "daily' if it  penro at lecac four totes a each.
1.4an of Thud Production p- Capita (i969-71-lDg) - lodeo ot per c.plta asane              Cnea_fosnl Attend_ance r Caita -0 Tear - nosed II the n'-e- of
prodactino of all fond u-usditirs.  Prod.uotio  neldee used -dc f-ad and                  tiobts said daring nba yea.  including ediusio.s to drive-in uooema
10 00 cuendar year hacin.  Co.dttiao  covr prfoar  goods (e.g. esacaoad   hile anita..
mct-d uf tugr) which art cdible and corui   ctrineta (e.g. -mf anad
ta.oare - enldod). Aggregte productico of caub ....atry io bsaed ogABdOR FORCi
secisal  rceao prdoco  prie ai~ght,;. 196145 1970  anI d 1990 data.             To.taL  hr.,Porc-  (     -oada) -  onaialyaciapereone, in1odieg
Duo cpitcuuup, et alovco Iaccot ci  cquicenso) -Csputod iron                 ara-feenad    elnyad but enclding hoanowoen*std-                t,et
Syr equivalent  fi non food nppliog availabl  to -ooty per .oPico                       covring popolotiso of all agea.  Doftitmena So tari.. coontria ore
per day.  A-ailablo  upplira oruprie  duse.tic prodaoie..  iport  lean                    net canpacebla; 1960. 1970 and 1900 Sar..
onporta, nd ubanc  in stuck. Nat ssppllea maclode aule  Dead, sends,                       aml(pret-Paelboireap-rrotage at ttotl Labor force.
qactitico cod is fond pruceautofg. nod I.un. in diacributioc.   eqair-                    Asiotr   eret) - Labor forc  In farming. f-etry. hstiug nod
_otooro at..imtod by PAO b.a.od on physLin&L-gIa  ocdn for norma anti-                      fUIRa no percestoge of intal labor force; 1960, 1970 and 19ff data..
rity and %alth coLadortIg  -ni-osencl teeperatar, body waighta. age                       tudantr  (Prcrr.) - Ochr foro  in  Ling. coosarctio..tafcrrc
nod soc dintributior oi popalettan. ondalwn  10 peccat Doe wate at                          nodaloticity  "Tc  and gun at p-oretagc or rrtu1 obur force;
heouchld leel; 16141.1970 nod 177 dat.                                                1960. 1970 -an  19f dat.
fo   aita ocply of proti  Coron  per day) -  rotein cou__  of per caPits              Parotui.PatosSat  Pe proo..t) - total, male, ad fosoin - Paticipation or
rt uspply of turd pr day. Net nupply .i tend is edficed as aohoe. Re-                     activity ratas arc ospoted -e total, male, and taul  labor torocg
quioneute forct1 all roan     ....a srbliubd by UDSfA pruido for misia                    Percenage  of total   al  o -    femaleP Ieulti   of all ages, -auporively;
ollovanoauf 60 grasa of total protein per day and 20 gr-n  uf anima  and                  1960, 1970. and 190 deco.' 'TMha  are based ao 11.0' participation rata
paluc Prrtomi, ofbiob 10  ras  aheod he animal p-orin.  These otand-                      ortlurtlUg age-se  unat-to  of tho pupultinco. cd lung tier trod.  A
ard  arI-wo  than thoac of 75 grae  of trod1 protain cod 23 Sraso of                      fou   coSotoo, a.o iron notionl  orcs
animal p        -ti   -o aravra    for the world, propu...d by PAD in the Third         F.oeet Dered-yo Betio - Satia of population onder 15 end 65 eud ovr
'Aut  fonIld Su-voy  1961451. 1970 and 1972 data,,th  total ub- force.
Percaita prtotin Ynoel frus animal nod roIee - Pror-in oupply of toed de-
rivd io nimls  ndpnes in g.roet  par day; 1061465, 1970 and 1977 data.          IitfOE PDiSTRIOTDDN 
Child  oars 14) Deab tat   'ee   thenad) - dAuol- deaths per thaoaad So            Perretage oftPivate boe (bth in cab and hOetd) - Saceteed by richooc
age g .cup 1-4 ycaru. to cbildeca ia thia age group;  ar test dvnlpiog coo-                  peoe.rithet 10 pecr-t, Peo-t 10 prent an_d puonrt 60  -e-trt
-rtea dra fd-iv-d fran lair tables; i960. 1970 and iOc data                               of h-tnhlda.
agAIn                                                                                     POVURTY TARGEiT GOMOP
Life toetny at Birth (yca-o  - Average onter of ycars of lifa remining                    The icllowic  noot-c- arc very epprLoocte ansr I f povrtylela
at bi;16. 170 end 1900 dta.                                                               and  hbeuld be interpreted with cosadarablc oaati-c
l.ofat Mortitty Rnto (or tousand) - A--Ia dc-htba ofoliatn  ondet ou  year                intimated. Absolute  act =  Isom  levol (0S$ sc capita) - urban sad rug  -
of age per theceand live birtha; 1960, 1970 and 1960 data.                                Absolute poverty  ina   nvli  that Sou-  level below which a t`imol
.cuna to Safe Vatec (.orot of pplto)- totl, nobs, end rural - Ku-                           nutritionally adeqnte diet plea essuolr,.  te-fond reqoiceota So net
bar at yeople (tota.1 n-a. sd rualwth aconbi  ne--n to sfaffordable-
.ersPply (iolude  tretd auriata watro  eor antread boo neconconotad                  Eatoated netative Povety taom  Level (0$  e opta  - arben ad rural
soec -oh as that f_ ranpeo tcod bercho..e,springe. sod aaoitary walle) aMultiniapvrynotlel                                       n-third aS  avrge Per capita
porcentoges of thei r epaotive Pupulaco-.  to - urban area a public                        personl isoamao of the ..-atry.  Doban leve  is derived fra  oh  rural
r    -na o  ttodpoet located net marc then 200 maer 0t ca. ba. na  he                 level with adjustmnt fe- higher toet of liw ~iatot nebes aenso.
conedrerd A  being within renuenbla a-ag  of thee heon.  En rura  ereso                 Sattlated Pec.Iaion mow AbeaePv Ecytaom  level  prect) - urbes
__bInah- non  woul  Id ipiy obot the hene-if. or mmbere of the household                  nod -rurl.  F-  cet ci populeoSo  (ubnad rura) Whorac   absolute
Ac ne  here  u spend a dlspcaPnrt     to.t paot at the day  in tabtcbg tha
famLly'a  water sads.
Mutber at people (total, urbn,  ad u ) nooved by aerane diapoal a
percetages of their -apetive popaLatfg.  fareta disposal maydeld
t he collecton sd disposl, with or without teretn,ot of basa erata
nod woae-wte by eatc-botn  sy.t- or the use of pit privie  and sit-
ltin- oallntinne.
Poraf p er Physiia  - Papalatis  divided by auter at pratging phyni-                                                         atmoadSolDtePvln
otnaqolfi   fr  -amdical soheal mc asversiy leve.                                                                  Re.oolae  A-lysia and Peojuoeta- Depae-tc
fteulaIoe ear Macing Perso  - Populatfe  divided by atutee at pracctnig                                                                    May 1932
assdfemal gead-at serene. aasistant  -eec. pratiesi oomas and



- 29 -
Ftpuat1oa: 26,426,0C0 (Kid-1981)                                                                                        ANI:X I
QP PAr Capita: US$1 330 a/                               IXOU.C IWICATUS                                                Pap 4 of 5
(million US$        Averap hsl Imrea (s                  Share of GIE at PLarket Prices ()
n Arent prima          (at citant 1970 priaes)                   (at arrent pricee)
198D      1981 b/    1960-70   1970-75   1975-81   1960       1970      1975       19W0      1981
Qes 4tic product c/            33,5G8     36,795       5.3       6.2       5.2      100.0     100.0    IO0        10.0     100.0
Agioture                      8,311      8,870       3.5       5.2       U4.       34.1      28.6      29.3       27.6      26.9
Inwutry                       9,253     10,208       6.2       6.5       4.1       25.7      26.6      28.3       30.7      31.0
Servis                       12,577     13,892       5.9       7.2       6.1       40.2      44.8      42.4       41.7      42.1
Corsmptln                      24,997     28,070       5.4       6.6       5.1       79.4      80.1      81.2       74.6      76.3
GrrBs lmestent                  8,605     10.210       5.1       1.3       9.9       20.5      22.0      17.8       25.7      27.7
Exports of g.ood and NIS        5,348      4,444       3.1       4.3       5.4       15.6      14.2      15.5       16.2      12.1
lWorts of g3cds ard FWS         5,433      5,929       4.3       0.8      11.0       15.5      16.2      14.6       16.5      16.1
9rcea national sarling          8,353      8,48D       5.2       5.6       6.7       19.4      18.0      16.8      24.9       23.0
CrsPoSition of Merdiardise Traie (X)
(at current pices)
1960      1970      1975      1980       1981
)ORDiH1SE IRAE-
lErdranii  Exports (FOB)        4,401      3,366       3.3       6.1       3.3      100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     10D.0
Major primary                 2,946   2     U7       2.8        17       5         72.5    -T2T        3T        66.9       59.6
hajor  :ufactures               865        922        -       23.5       5.8        -        10.5      22.5       19.6      27.4
Other                           592        437        -        4.1      -6.3        -        17.4      20.3       13.5      13.0
Verdmrdise 1nsorts (CIF)        4,663      4,710       3.5       2.1       9.0      10.0     100.0     103.0     103.0      100.0
Food                            307        343      10.0       6.1      14.7       2.4        5.1       6.0       6.6        7.3
Petrolm                        563        698      -21.4      13.0      54.9       2.0        -         1.0      12.1       14.8
Mlhinery and eq'puEst         1,584      1,681       5.2      -4.1      11.5       42.7      43.6      36.1      34.0       35.7
OthLr                         2.209      1,988       1.8       5.6       8.3      52.9       51.3      56.9      47.4       42.2
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981 b/
PRICES Ali) 2219 CF IRAIE d/
GOP eflator                             27.6       20.8       23.6       28.3       17.1        24.1       27.2       23.5
lanpmg  rate                            26.1       30.9       34.7       36.8       39.1       42.6        47.3       54.5
bEport price indEx                     246.6      252.5      389.8      577.9      552.2      608.3       S818.      835.2
jrport price ndex                      216.9      275.1      330.2      375.9      43D.0      518.2       661.9      789.9
Term of trade index                    227.4       40.2      336.2      652.3       512.6     425.8       517.0      235.3
1970       1975      1981 E
UIWUC FPIN2    e/
urrent revenu                                                      10.6       11.2       13.0
OQTernt expendtue        -                                          5.7        7.1        9.2
&Srplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         4.9         4.1        3.8
Capital expdture                                                    1.8        4.6        4.5
Foreinr firir f/                                                    3.3        2.9        2.3
1960-70    1970-75    1975-81
Gtf gmwh  rate (X)                                                 5.10        6.40       5.40
01 per capita growth rate (2)                                       2.00       4.00       3.40
Ehezv  anXniptio  grewth rate (2)                                  5.00        4.00       4.00
IXZR b/                                                            3.54        3.70       4.27
gInal savirgs rate if                                              0.13        0.14       0.27
7nott elasticity                                                   1.17       0.12        2.06
a/ World Bark Atlas Metbod.
b/ Etimated.
c  At muiet prices: Omrts    are expressed at factor cot ard will nct aid  scsaus of exclusion of net Udirect twes aid suli,dies.
d/ lndies bas  on 1970-100.
.1  Central (errment.
T/ G(NEI disbrmnats of external leeas to tbe entire publtc senter.
Incluads Sodal s%curity ard Fongk, Vial.
yLai one Yeir-
t/  keremnt to gross &tic   saFvitUs/ilcremea to gross dom-tir produrt.
April 13, 1983



- 30 -
*WEX I
Pac 5 of 5
1t'cLlation:  26,426,000 (mid-1981)                                 bANlE OF PAESflO, }XIL CAPMTAL ANE  MM
12R Pser Capts:  US$1,330 a/                                                 (million US~ at current prices)
Actual                                                            troetd
1974      1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      198)     1981Ib/    1982      193       198       1985      I9
BALANX Cf PAS)4
bxpDts of gxds aid rna-factor services            1,858     2,165      2,805     3,443     4,039     4,658      5,348     4,444     4,243     4,619     5,173     5,707     6,863
1morts af goid  and rct-facWr servic              2,072     2,030     2,321      2,762     3,425     3,939      5,433     5,929     5,436     6,025     7,096     7,459     8.256
Pescrce Balan                                        -214        135       484       681       614       719        -85   -1,485    -1,188   -1,406    -1,923    -1,752   -1,393
Net factor peysets                                -192       -2Z63       -313     -272      -31       -255      -2        -334       46        -813   -1,093   -1,374    -1,6U8
bM,t unrequired trarnsfers                           22        3S         39        40        44        96         97        89        92        94        97       100       103
Current Accout Balance                               -384        96        210       449       357       562      -248    -1,730   -L5          2.125    -2,919    -3,026    -2,97a
Mt direct foreiES invsta ent                           36        32         14        43        67        104       234       209       241       300       550       600       400
K-dium- and lrng-ter  loas   (ott)                   327         261       102       196        47        609       835     1,047       488       897     1,640     1,796      2,677
to PubliIc sector                                  (216)     (269)     (141)      (202)      (79)     (505)     (778)    (644)    (513)    (924)  (1,612)   (1,768)  (2,693)
to private sectot                                   (-9)      (-S)      (-39)      (-6)     (-32)     (104)       (57)    (403)    (-25)    (-27)         (28)      (21)    (-16)
Other capital                                        -223        -56       236       164       139       -38        350       587        27        23        29        30        30
Capical Acemt Balce                                    20        237       352       403       253       675      1,449     1.843       756     1,225     2,219     2,426     3,10B         *
Charge in  eerws (- - increase)                       364      -139       -562      -852      -610    -1,237    -1,201       -113       800       900       700       600      -1W
Intermational reserves (official)                     152       547      1,166     1,830     2,482     4,106     5,416     5,630      4,891     3,991     3,291     2,691     2,89D
Reserves as months of imports                         0.9        3.2       6.0       8.0       87       12.5       12.0      11.4      10.8       8o        5.6       4.3       4.2
GC6SS DISFlRb51S c/
Official grants                                      -         -          -         -         -
Gross disFisemnits of MIZ las                       379       390        258       361       301       983      1,005     1,412
Concessilral                                         62        37         71        51        53        17        14         0
Bilateral                                         (62)      (37)       (44)      (21)      (53)      (17)      (14)       (0)
A                                                   -)       ()          -)       ()         -)       (-)       ()        ()
Other asltilateral                                  0         0         27        30        (0)       (0)       (0)        (0)
bbn-tcncessional                                    317       353        187       310       248       966       991      1,412
Office]. export credits                            (4)      (14)        (0)      (14)      (19)      (54)     (113)      (82)
I81D                                              (86)     (106)      (76)      (85)       (82)     (139)    (218)      (251)
Otter aisailateral                                (26)      (21)        (2)       (6)      (39)      (45)      (92)    (114)
Private                                          (201)     (212)     (109)      (205)     (108)     (728)    (578)    (965)
LDMPNAL OE1B  (erd of period) cl
Debt cxstarninrg anl disbursed                   2,093     2,348     2,450      2,658     2,774     3,342     4,048     5,077
Official                                        1,600     1,703      1,773     1,850     1,987     2,136     2,3S8     2,641
bRD                                            (562)     (634)     (672)     (716)    (751)       (836)     (991)   (1,165)
SM                                              (23)      (22)      (22)      (22)      (22)       (22)      (21)      (21)
Otter                                        (1,015)   (1,047)   (1,079)   (1,112)   (1,214)   (1,276)   (!,376)  (1,455)
Pffvate                                           493       645       677       8C8        787     1,206     1,660     2,436
tkeisbursaed Debt                                   674       663        908     1,022     1,516     1,902     2,455     2,553
lkhT SRXVIC3 c/
Total debt arvice peynsnts of shidh                 310       249        278       313       393       657       546        726
Interest                                          102       114       125        137       168       227       282       417
Payments as % exports of gpos ao
all services                                     16.7      11.5       9.9        9.1       9.7      14.1      10.2      16.3
Payrents as X (2?                                   2.5       1.9        1.9       1.6       1.7       2.4       1.6       2.0
Avera*  interest rate co rw  1ons (5)               7.4       7.3        6.5       7.4       7.9      10.1      12.3       12.7
Offictal                                         (6.0)     (6.1)     (5.8)      (7.3)     (7.6)     (7.6)    (7.4)    (8.4)
Private                                          (8.6)     (8.2)     (7.5)      (7.7)     (8.6)    (11.8)    (15.1)    (14.6)
Average mawrity of rnw lans (years)                15.7       15,1      14.9      16.2      14.1      12.8      13.3       12.0
Official                                        (22.6)    (26.1)    (20.0)    (17.7)    (16.2)    (16.7)    (18.4)   (15.2)
Private                                          (9.5)     (8,2)     (7.4)      (7.8)     (9.1)     (9.9)    (10.2)   (10.5)
MMN GM  FXF0IR     . (X) c/
lILBT VJD/total DOD                                26.8      27.0      27.4       26.9      27.1      25.1      24.5      22.9
1D) dislursements/total grcss disbueceents         22.7      27.1      29.3       23.6      27.3      14.1      21.7      17.7
LEWI) debt service/total debt service              24.0      28.9      30.8       29.8      28.3      18.9      26.4      22.2
U  )51)/total ML)                                   1.1       1.0       0.9        0.8       0.8       0.6       0.5       0.4
11)4 dis,ursements/total grass disbursements         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
1D debt service/total debt service                 0.3       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
a/ iJorld Barik Atlas ethed.
b/ Prclindnary.
c/ Hubllk aMi publicly guarantei debt
April 13, 1983
Colcubta Division



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
(US$million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
63 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                     1,210.5  23.5 1/    --
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       25.4               .8
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture        21.0              6.8
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.         52.0              8.2
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr.  64.0               2.5
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications    58.3              35.8
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways           90.0             16.6
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition          25.0             10.5
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             24.8             15.3
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                126.0             36.8
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power              50.0             11.3
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y          Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena           Export           15.0              6.5
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    92.0               1.7
1624    1979  Colombia                         Airports            61.0              8.0
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              84.0             15.4
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             10.8
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       27.9              9.8
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 72.0             47.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       31.0             29.5
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria                Agriculture Cr.   20.0              15.0
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.               Mining-Nickel       80.0              0.2
1/  Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              87.0              60.0
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                  33.5
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0                7.7
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0              116.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                125.0             112.4
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 85.0              80.5
1966    1981  Colombia                          Rural Roads        33.0             29.6
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                     Irrigation         37.0              34.6
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica                Power              36.0             36.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             359.0            325.3
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio         Watershed
Ambiente                       Management          9.0              8.3
2090 1/ 1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                       Railways           77.0             77.0
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional               Highways          152.3             150.1
2174 1/ 1982  Colombia                          Rural Develop-
ment             53.0             53.0
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                      Rural Education   15.0               14.8
TOTAL                                            3,537.7  23.5
Of which has been repaid                           702.8   3.4
Total now outstanding                            2,834.9  20.1
Amount sold                           51.0
Of which has been repaid              50.5           0.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   2,834.4  20.1
Total undisbursed                                                 1,428.4
1/ Not yet effective.



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                             Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.            Fiber-board            .50               .50
1960-1965       Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products         1.98    .08       2.06
1961            Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans             .70       -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Rogar, S.A.                     Home furniture         .08    .09        .17
1961            Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical equipment .50        -        .50
1962            Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                         financing             -   2.02       2.02
(          1962-1963       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Nacional                           financing             -   2.04       2.04
1963-1967       Compania Colombiana de             Textiles              1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969         Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de           Development
Caldas                             financing             -    .81        .81
1964-1968       Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging            -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de              Warehousing           1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966            Industria Ganadera                 Livestock             1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.              Textiles              5.00   2.61       7.61
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de           Tourism                  -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del          Development
Norte                              financing             -    .45        .45
1969           Corporacion Financiera del          Development
Valle                              financing             -    .43        .43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de             Tourism                .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                   Tourism                .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing                  -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974            Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement                1.50      -       1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.           Cement                3.60      -       3.60
1976           Las Brisas                          Mining                6.00      -       6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities            13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material          1.46   1.27        2.73
1981           Leasing Bolivar                     Leasing               9.00    .17       9.17
1981-1982       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86       16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing          1.00   0.54       1.54
Total Gross Commitments                                 61.48  19.19      80.67
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                         49.13   9.59       58.72
Total commitments now held by IFC                       12.35   9.60      21.95
Total undisbursed                                        5.20   0.42       5.62



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
As of March 31, 19831/
1.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$25.3 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective Date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
In June 1982, the closing date was extended to December 31, 1982 only
for 13 of the 30 cities in the ground water program and for subprojects in
Baranquilla, Cartagena and Villavicencio; $1.3 million of the loan not
allocated to these components was cancelled. In November 1982 an additional
$360,000 was cancelled because special conditions specified for the city of
Baranquilla were not met. Once disbursement of the final withdrawal
application is completed, the loan account will be closed and the undisbursed
balance of approximately $804,000 will be cancelled.
2.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21
million, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give res-
ponsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision delayed
the initiation of the project and execution is still behind schedule. One of
the project's main problems continues to be inadequate budget allocations to
carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to farmers. Maintenance of
roads and drains constructed under the loan, technical assistance to farmers
and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries are inadequate. On February 10,
1983, the Bank suspended disbursement because corrective measures were not
taken within the timetable agreed by INCORA and the Bank; once the Bank has
received satisfactory evidence that INCORA has carried out the agreed action
plan, disbursement will be resumed. The project's social component, schools,
domestic water supply and health, is progressing satisfactorily. As of March
31, 1983, US$14.2 million, or about 66% of the loan amount, had been disbursed.
3.        Ln. No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
The project is now in its sixth year of implementation and proceeding
well, in spite of its complexity. The project's components of credit, tech-
nical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, and institutional
coordination continues to be effective. The forestry, water supply and health
components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such as pro-
curement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but they are
much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project execution
is satisfactory and a comprehensive first stage evaluation is currently under-
way. The project is expected to be complete by the end of 1983, one year after
the original closing date.  As of March 31, 1983, US$43.8 million, or 84% of
the loan, had been disbursed.
f         4.         Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
This project is in its final stage of execution. All funds assigned
to medium and large farmers has been fully committed and disbursed, and all
sub-loans allocated to small farmers have been committed. About 96% of loan
funds for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 186 sub-projects.
As of March 31, 1983, US$61.6 million, or 96% of the loan, had been disbursed.
5.        Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
The project was originally delayed by personnel changes in the
Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procurement of project
goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expansion, and design of
buildings to house equipment. Satisfactory progress is being made in the
acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies and, overall, procure-
ment and construction have accelerated. As of March 31, 1983, US$35.4 million,
or 61% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
6.        Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977
Closing Date:    March 31, 1984
The project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, mainte-
nance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The maintenance program began
in March 1980; consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been
retained and the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The
vehicle weight control program is about to begin. As of March 31, 1983,
US$73.4 million, or 82% of the loan, had been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Progress has been achieved in the major components of health and
water supply but by and large execution is running about a year behind sche-
dule. Progress in the nutrition education component deteriorated in 1981 due
to lack of funding and personnel changes and corrective measures were taken to
accelerate execution in 1982. A project impact study is underway which may
determine that project design should be altered. As of March 31, 1983, US$14.5
million, or 58% of the loan, had been disbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21,
1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
While project execution and coordination has recently improved, over-
all progress is still running behind schedule. Plans for all the 23 cities
have been approved by the Bank. In the past year, project execution has acce-
lerated and in general, project budgeting, staffing, reporting, physical and
financial execution has greatly improved. The Bank and SIP recommended a re-
design of the project to better accomplish its goals and this was put into
effect in mid-1982. As of March 31, 1983, US$9.5 million, or 38% of the loan,
had been disbursed.
9.        Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million, July
14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule, with good performance by
the Borrower, however, the progress of civil works for the power house has been
delayed because of delays in local currency payments to the main civil works
contractor. The first generating unit is expected to be in full commercial
operation by end June, 1983.   As of March 31, 1983, US$89.2 million, or 71% of
the loan, had been disbursed.
10.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
The Bank-financed component (transmission line) has been completed,
at lower-than-anticipated cost. The line is energized temporarily at 230 kV,
pending full completion of the works. The last contracts to supply and erect
the terminals and intermediate substations have been approved and the 500
kV line is expected to be in operation in the first half of 1984. As of March
31, 1983, US$38.8 million, or 78% of the loan, had been disbursed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
11.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After initial delays due to procurement problems, project
implementation is now being delayed because of lack of counterpart financing
due to a reduction in income of the executing agency. Construction and the
promotional campaign are both well advanced with all the support infrastructure
operational and four industrial buildings occupied. As of March 31, 1983,
US$8.5 million, or 57% of the loan, had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project; US$92
million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    March 31, 1983
The project has proceeded satisfactorily and loan funds are virtually
fully committed. Disbursement applications will be honored up to June 30,
1983, after which time the undisbursed balance, resulting from unutilized
subloan amounts, will be cancelled. As of March 31, 1983, 98% of the loan, or
about US$90.3 million, had been disbursed.
13.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well underway. Because of poor soils, there was a
construction delay at the Rio Negro airport, but pavement is now being con-
structed. In general the project is problem-free and disbursements are keeping
pace with the appraisal estimates. As of March 31, 1983, about 87% of the loan
had been disbursed.
14.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
Project works are well advanced, although with about 2 years delay.
Higher-than-anticipated costs (estimated at US$130 million) are expected as a
result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal. As of March 31, 1983, 82% of
the loan had been disbursed.
15.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984



- 38 -                            ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
The project is about 24 months behind schedule and is still beset by
financial, staffing and management problems. A firm commitment has been
obtained from the implementing agency to accelerate project execution and
specific targets, which are being closely monitored by the Bank, have been
agreed on. As of March 31, 1982, US$10.8 million, or 87% of loan funds
remained undisbursed.
16.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$27.9 million, November 30,
1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Good progress is being made on all aspects of the project with 70% of
all equipment delivered and installation of networks in low income
neighborhoods completed. Estimated project completion date for the remaining
project components is December 31, 1984; however, all major civil works will
be completed in 1983 with the feasibility studies for future projects requiring
the additional 12 months. As of March 31, 1983, US$18.1 million, or 65% of the
loan, had been disbursed.
17.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30,
1979.
Effective Date: June 19, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Project works are proceeding well at lower than anticipated cost, and
with good performance by the Borrower.  As of March 31, 1983, US$47.7 million,
or 66% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
18.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30,
1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Although delays in meeting conditions for disbursement have retarded
project execution by about two years, procurement for most subprojects is well
advanced and construction is underway in many of them, and completion of works
is expected by the end of 1985.  While INSFOPAL's handling of day-to-day
affairs has improved, persistent institutional problems still exist and the
Government is contemplating corrective measures. Tariff approvals by the
National Tariff Board, while subject to confirmation and implementation by
project beneficiaries by the April 30, 1983 deadline set by the Bank, will
bring the number of beneficiaries eligible for disbursement to 21. As of March
31, 1983, US$29.5 million, or 95% of the loan remained undisbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30,
1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985



-39                               ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Disbursements are lagging, even taking into account the one year
delay in effectiveness, mostly because of slow on-lending commitments. The
revolving fund for credit is working satisfactorily. However, the Borrower's
overall financial management remains weak and in February 1983 the Bank sus-
pended disbursements pending satisfactory evidence that an action plan has been
taken to strengthen it. As of March 31, 1983, 25% of the loan had been
disbursed.
20.       Ln. No. 1762 Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
The project was completed on schedule by the end of April 1982.  Cost
overruns (mostly financial) of about 29% and cash flow deficiencies for the
initial operations period, required a revision of the financing plan and the
Borrower received, in July 1982, the Bank's agreement for an additional
long-term loan from commercial banks coupled with additional commitments from
shareholders. In February 1983, the Borrower approached again its major
lenders with a proposal to reschedule their loans, in anticipation of revenue
shortfalls during 1983-84 caused by operational problems and substantially
lower than forecast nickel project. This proposal and other alternatives are
under consideration by the Bank. As of March 31, 1983, only US$180,000 remained
undisbursed.
21.       Ln. No. 1807 Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million, February 6,
1981.
Effective Date: September 25, 1981
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
Project execution is well advanced, with contracts awarded for most
of the equipment and materials needed for the project. As of March 31, 1983,
US$60.0 million, or 69% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
22.       Ln. No. 1825 Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million, December 19,
1980.
Effective Date: October 30, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Procurement is well advanced, and the project is proceeding satisfac-
torily.  As of March 31, 1983, US$33.5 million, or 76% of the loan, remained
undisbursed, although over 95% of loan funds were committed.
23.       Ln. No. 1834 Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million, December 10,
1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Project execution is underway with commitments proceeding at a fast
pace. The loan amount is expected to be fully committed by June 30, 1983. As
of March 31, 1983, US$24.4 million, or 76% of the loan, had been disbursed.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
24.       Ln. No. 1857 Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
As of March 31, 1983, US$75.6 million, or only 50% of the loan, had
been committed to sub-projects, reflecting lower than anticipated investment
levels in medium and large enterprises. The Bank and the Borrower have agreed
to modifications in the terms and conditions of this loan to adapt it to
current conditions in the industrial sector.
25.       Ln. No. 1868 Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million, December 19,
1980.
Effective Date: June 29, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
The project is well underway, although the contracting of works has
taken longer than expected. The main civil works contracts for underground
works and power house were awarded in September 1981 and construction is under-
way. As of March 31, 1983, US$112.4 million, or 90% of the loan, remained
undisbursed.
26.       Ln. No. 1953 Playas Hydro Power; US$85 million, November 6, 1981.
Effective Date:  June 21, 1982
Closing Date:    June 30, 1987
Main civil works contracts have been awarded and construction is
progressing satisfactorily despite initial delays. Completion is expected in
early 1988, representing a two-year delay resulting from design changes and
slow organizational arrangements. As of March 31, 1983, US$80.6, or 95% of the
loan remained undisbursed.
27.       Ln. No. 1966 Rural Roads, US$33 million, September 24, 1981
Effective Date:  April 21, 1982
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Project works are well underway and contracts for all equipment
purchases have been approved.
28.       Ln. No. 1996 Irrigation Rehabilitation; US$37 million, April 16, 1982
Effective Date: August 16, 1982
Closing Date:    June 30, 1988
Effectiveness of this loan was delayed and although some construction
was carried out under retroactive financing, major project start-up took place
only during October/November 1982. Civil works tendering and equipment
procurement are proceeding satisfactorily. As of March 31, 1983, $34.6 or 94%
of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 41 -                            ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
29.       Ln. No. 1999 Village Electrification; US$36 million, May 21, 1981.
Effective Date: February 15, 1983
Closing Date:    June 30, 1986
Project works are proceeding on schedule.
30.       Ln. No. 2008 Guavio Power; US$359 million, March 8, 1982.
Effective Date: October 29, 1982
Closing Date:    May 30, 1988
This project faced start-up problems because of delays in land
acquisition, but recently considerable progress has been made and construction
of the diversion scheme and drilling of the access, ancillary and tailrace
tunnels has begun. The project is expected to be completed in 1988 at a cost
substantially the same as estimated at appraisal.
31.       Ln. No. 2069 Upper Magdalena Watershed; US$9.0 million, April 16,
1982.
Effective Date: January 13, 1983
Closing Date:    June 30, 1987
The project became effective on January 13, 1983 and is just begin-
ning implementation activities. The weakness of the project unit's staff and
the somewhat disappointing performance of the consultants hired to assist in
the start-up phase, may limit realization of the first year's objectives as
scheduled. The progress of the project in 1983 will ultimately depend on the
success of the government in strengthening the project unit.
32.       Ln. No. 2090 Railways VII; US$77.0 million, December 28, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.
33.       Ln. No. 2121 Highways VIII; US$152.3 million, May 13, 1982.
Effective Date: September 22, 1982
Closing Date:    December 31, 1986
Project work is proceeding smoothly.
34.       Ln. No. 2174 Second Integrated Rural Development; US$53.0 million,
July 26, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
35.       Ln. No. 2192 Rural Education; US$15.0 million, August 30, 1982.
Effective Date: March 30, 1983
Closing Date:    June 30, 1986
Initial project implementation activities have been delayed, but
administrative and organizational structures are now in place to start
development of local sub-projects and the planning of national sub-projects.



43-                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)   Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                                 Approximately 2 years
b)   The Agency which prepared the project        Agricultural Institute of
Colombia (ICA)
c)   Date of first presentation of full
proposal to the Bank                         October 25, 1982
d)   Date of departure of Appraisal Mission    November 14, 1982
e)   Date of completion of negotiation            April 29, 1983
f)   Planned date of effectiveness                October 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Condition
1. Assurances were obtained that:
(a)   the detailed strategy for the reorganization of ICA would be deter-
mined by the end of 1983 and be implemented by December 31, 1984
(paragraph 49);
(b)   by no later than December 31, 1983 ICA would present to the Bank,
detailed proposals for the constitution and operations of research
consultative committees for the major research programs and
stations, and by December 31, 1984 reestablish and thereafter main-
tain periodic research meetings. In addition, ICA's overall
research strategy would be reviewed after the completion of the
national study on technology transfer and extension (paragraph 51);
(c)   the lines of control and transmission of funds for research
stations and programs would be streamlined (paragraph 52);
(d)   the findings of PLANTRA would be reviewed together with the Bank
and its implications for the research priorities of this project
assessed (paragraph 55);
(e)   monitoring, reporting and evaluation would be in accordance with
agreed upon procedures (paragraph 56);
(f)   should the Borrower have inadequate funds to meet the estimated
expenditures for the project, the Guarantor would provide such
funds; after project completion the Government would continue to
provide ICA with sufficient funds to sustain the level of research
efforts brought about under this project (paragraph 59); and



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g)   ICA would contract consultancy services to review its accounting
system by June 30, 1984, with a view to improve the presentation
and flow of information to management (paragraph 63).
2. Conditions of effectiveness would be that a special account for the
working fund has been established by ICA (paragraph 61).
3. Conditions of disbursement under the respective categories would be that
(a) ICA has furnished to the Bank a plan of action for local and foreign
training; (b) the Government has ordered the release of its initial con-
tribution to the special account (US$0.5 million); and (c) ICA has pre-
pared a comprehensive justification for the establishment of one new
research station (paragraphs 53, 61, and 62).



COLOMBIA
2,AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
txii   f.n ft c 7  f;7 h3 Natot    Reseerab  tenters    ismd'  t'                                          si    Mno-    _e
Pc2a     g As    Regicoer Research Centers                                                 RiE:atnO
o3 EIoerlment Stations                                                              H
Pced Trutk Reeds                                                _  
tporod Roads
,9Rairtod Drsconttnued
o   Iteronol ar -prta
- Pepod Atoorta                                Kascaaia-a
* _ep- ped Arrtos                                         co        a jMoe tdo  i =  a  2-
R" oots                                      d
Relaef rmomter-        r                                 \   /
0~~~~~~~~L     EPsJt A><e-.E  serc                            >Ico ro.  g ayf- 3ti4
N     -P A          .... i JA -               x M N[ R tampn-ae aj :2s~ u ;            Lraoa -              \    V    N     4Z U E F  A          -I
1~~~~~~~~~~~AI ?i. A0-  
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_    ,                                           ,-     :       3X'       
7'  N                  W                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vlt     
'Ii 
LrCoaO            C1",ooocne
r   o.:Al~~~~~~acroesorae,rtn
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0T
I                                                                         ve~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a    o  ra &.am- aloaam
*1-i
9~~~~~~~~~~~mcc  Lo' ofE*eS



