Document of
The World Bank                               '
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4384-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
May 12, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(At the time of appraisal and used in this Report unless otherwise stated)
Currency Unit   =   Colombian Peso, Col$
Col$ 10           =   US$0.14
Col$ 100          =   US$1.44
Col$ 1,000        =   US$14.36
Col$ 1,000,000   =   US$14,367.82
Col$ 69.6         =   US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIAT      Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical
International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIMMYT    Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP       Centro Internacional de la Papa
International Potato Center
ICA       Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
Colombian Agricultural Institute
TICA      Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacion para la Agricultura
Interamerican Institute of Cooperation for Agriculture
IRDP      Integrated Rural Development Program
FFAP      Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
Agricultural Financing Fund
PLANIA    Plan Nacional de Investigacion Agropecuaria del ICA
National Plan for Agricultural Research of ICA
PLANTRA   Plan Nacional de Transferencia de Tecnologia para la Agricultura
National Plan for the Transference of Technology for Agriculture
COLOMBIAN AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...............................                   1
A. Role in the National Economy.                                       1
B. Public Policy for the Sector.                                       2
C.  Agricultural Development and Institutions.                         3
D. Bank Involvement in the Sector.                                     4
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION.                                    6
A.  The Development of Agricultural Research.                          6
B.  The Development of Agricultural Extension Services                 8
C.  The Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) in 1982                 9
D.  National Post-graduate Training Program .12
E.  National and International Collaboration in Research              12
fIII   THE PROJECT.15
III.  THE PROJECT ...............................................           1
A. Introduction .15
B. Brief Description .16
C. Detailed Features .17
D. Project Cost .22
E. Financing .24
F. Procurement .24
G. Disbursement .25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .27
A. Organization and Management .27
B. Planning for Implementation .28
C.  Staff Training and the Use of Consultant Services                 29
D.  Operation and Maintenance of Facilities and Services              30
E. Accounts and Auditing .30
F. Monitoring and Reporting .31
V. RESEARCH STRATEGY AND DIRECTIONS .32
A. Introduction .32
B. Agronomy .33
C. Animal Sciences .35
D. Veterinary Sciences .37
E. Agricultural Engineering .37
F. Technical Supporting Services .38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Colombia in November/December, 1982. The mission comprised Messrs.
J.A.N. Wallis (Mission Leader), P. Marko, F. Portilla and A. Tobelem (Bank);
and J. Gregor, J. House and N. Raun (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS ..........................................                38
VII.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....            ......    41
ANNEXES
1.  Terms of Reference for Consultant Services and Studies.                42
2.  Audit Requirements ....................................                51
3.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File ............        ....................................       53
SUPPORTING TABLES
1.  Numbers of Staff in the Research Department of ICA
by Levels ...........................................               57
2.  Total Expenditures by the Ministry of Agriculture
and ICA - 1970-81 ...................................               58
3.  Income and Expenditure of ICA - 1978-82 ....            ...........    59
4.  Training and Consultant Service Requirements
by Work Unit ........................................               60
5.  Technical Assistance:   Summary of Training and
Consultant Services .................................               62
6.  Annual Cost of Scientific Premia ......................                63
7.  Annual Personnel Costs and General Costs ....            ..........    64
8.  Annual Training and Consultant Services Cost ....            ......    65
9.  Annual Project Investment Cost by Category .............               66
10.  Procurement Method ....................................                67
11.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ...................                68
12.  Project Cash Flow .....................................                69
13.  Annual Numbers of Research Projects by Program
and Disciplines .......................................               70
14.  National Average Crop Yields, 1970-82 and Average
Yields at Research Stations .........................               71
CHART
-   Organization Chart of the Colombian Agricultural
Institute (ICA) ......................................               72
MAP
- IBRD No. 16816, Colombia, Agricultural Research
and Extension Project I ..............................



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Role in the National Economy
1.01      Agricultural output grew at an average annual rate of 4.2% during
the period 1960-81, which was about 1.5% below the average growth rate of the
economy as a whole. The sectoral share of agriculture in GDP decline from
32.7% between 1960 and 1964 to 25.7% for the period 1978 to 1981. The share
of agriculture in Colombia's GDP is almost twice the average for
middle-income countries, partly because of a continuing substantial
participation of high-value cash crops, such as coffe, in the value added.
However, it also reflects the strong long-term performance of the sector,
relative to others in the economy and as compared to agriculture in other
countries at a similar stage of economic development.
1.02       In the 1970s, over half the additional value of agricultural output
was derived from increased exports of farm produce which constituted between
68% and 75% of all recorded exports. Most of the increase was from coffee,
but exports of other agricultural products doubled in real terms during the
decade. In the same period, annual per capita consumption increased 2.7%
because the import of products of agricultural origin tripled, and more
non-coffee farm products became available from domestic production for local
consumption.
1.03       In contrast to the generally good performance of the sector in the
1960s and 1970s, the situation deteriorated markedly in recent years, and for
the period 1979-82 the annual growth rate was no more than 2.5%. In part,
this slow-down was the consequence of adverse weather conditions and in part
the result of the local effects of the world-wide economic recession during
this period. In addition, there is a wide range of policy and structural
constraints affecting the sector that will make it difficult to regain the
average growth rate achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. These issues have been
reviewed in a recent report based on a common evaluation of the agricultural
sector by the Bank and the Government that includes recommendations on some
directions for public strategy for the sector (Report No. 4275-CO, January
31, 1983). The main conclusions of the report are summarized in the
following paragraphs concerning issues that affect the production environment
(a) by providing incentives through policies affecting the pricing of farm
inputs and outputs; and (b) by improving production methods, systems for the
transfer of technology, the supply of farm inputs and the marketing of farm
outputs.



- 2 -
B. Public Policy for the Sector
1.04      It is estimated that during the 1980s, the aggregate domestic and
external demand for Colombian farm produce will increase by at least 3% per
annum. Public policies are required that stimulate domestic demand and
encourage exports of farm production. On the production side, incentives to
raise output can be improved by reducing the costs of farm inputs, adopting
appropriate trade policies, modifying policies for pricing outputs and
improving the availability of inputs, including credit.
1.05      There is considerable scope for reducing the costs of farm inputs,
most of which are above comparable international levels because of tariffs
and other taxes, and high distribution costs. For example, it is estimated
that Colombian farmers pay more than double the world market prices for
fertilizers and consequently are slow to use them at rates which are known to
be effective in raising yields substantially. Studies are required to
examine (a) taxes, port charges, and transport and distribution costs; bulk
transport and transport in bags; changes in the location of blending plants;
and the relative economic efficiency of increasing domestic production of
importing fertilizers; and (b) the efficiency of fertilizer use for various
crops; the appropriateness of the levels currently recommended and used; the
composition of compound and mixtures of fertilizers; and improvements in the
definition of fertilizer requirements at the farm level.
1.06      Trade policies have had a strong effect on agricultural growth and
exports. The trade reforms initiated in 1967 and favorable developments in
the world economy stimulated rapid increases in both production and exports
of non-coffee products and at first there was a significant positive
association between the real exchange rate and the value of these non-coffee
exports. However, during the period of high world market prices for coffee
in the latter part of the 1970s, the situation changed, because the
depreciation of the Colombian peso was not consistent with international
price movements, which reduced incentives for increasing non-traditional
exports. Policy alternatives for improving the competitiveness of Colombian
exports in world markets should be examined. Along these lines, the efficacy
of export subsidies should be compared with the effect of a more rapid
depreciation of the Colombian peso on resource allocation and price
inflation. Also, further studies are necessary on the effects of the
protection of local industrial production, including agricultural inputs and
selected agricultural products, on the relative prices of exported farm
products and the competitiveness of Colombian produce on the world market.
1.07      There is less opportunity for raising agricultural incentives
through changing policies for pricing outputs. The prices to farmers of most
non-perishable food products subject to price intervention are already at or
above world price levels. However, the operations of the Agricultural
Marketing Institute (IDEMA) merit further study to determine the extent to
which support prices and import regulations are required to stimulate a
steady increase in domestic production. The appropriate balance between
price supports and input subsidies and the possible role for commodity
marketing funds also require detailed examination.



1.08      The availability and cost of credit clearly influences the use of
other inputs; however, in the 1970s the relationship between the value of
outstanding loans and aggregate agricultural output was not very close, with
the annual increase in the value of outstanding loans averaging 1.2% in real
terms and average sectoral output growth for the same period reaching 4.5%
suggesting that credit availability did not restrict farm production, but the
demand for credit probably exceeded the supply at the prevailing
concessionary rates. The Agricultural Financing Fund (FFAP) of the Bank of
the Republic became of increasing importance during the latter part of the
1970s, both because it served as a source of funds for rediscounting through
the banking system and because it provided financial support to the Colombian
Agricultural Institute (ICA) for technical assistance services for
small-scale farmers from a 1% levy charged on agricultural lending to other
than small-scale farmers.    In the same period, in real terms, the
outstanding portfolio of the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA)
managed by the Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank (Caja Agraria)
decreased by almost 40%, not counting some support from Bank Loans 1118-CO
and 1163-CO. The Bank has recommended a study to examine: (a) ways to
improve savings mobilization; (b) provision and recovery of credit funds
with regard to small-scale farmers; (c) the appropriateness and cost to the
banking system of maintaining credit subsidies for medium- and large-scale
farmers, the principal users of the FFAP; and (d) the provision and
management of credit for the marketing and distribution of farm produce.
1.09      One of the highest priorities of the Colombian administration which
took office in August 1982 is the development of the agricultural sector,
with particular attention to food production, the generation or saving of
foreign exchange, and policies and programs that have positive social
impacts. An essential and explicit part of this strategy is to rehabilitate
ICA as the leading agricultural research institution and to rationalize and
strengthen the whole national network of public and private entities involved
in the transfer of agricultural technology and provision of farm advisory
services.
C. Agricultural Development and Institutions
1.10      In the 1970s, there were substantial increases in agricultural
productivity through the application of improved farming methods and the use
of new varieties of crops and breeds of livestock.   About 32% of the
increased coffee production and 44% of the increase in production of other
farm products is estimated to have come from improved yields, while the
balance was from extensions in the area under production.
1.11      It will be necessary to continue to bring new land into productive
use. Priority should be given to low-cost alternatives, such as increased
cropping intensity on small-scale farms; rehabilitating and completing
existing settlement schemes and flood control, drainage and irrigation
schemes, rather than initiating colonization in new areas. The long-term
development strategy should place high priority on the conservation and more
efficient use of natural resources through systematic watershed management,
including forestry development.
1.12      The underlying strategy of the Integrated Rural Development Program
(IRDP), which began in 1976, has been to encourage and enable small-scale



-4-
farmers (less than 20 ha) to exploit rationally and more fully their existing
holdings. So far the program has involved about a quarter of the farmers in
this size range, which has been sufficient to demonstrate that substantial
increases in production can be achieved by using effectively the technical
knowledge and practical experience which is already available. This strategy
for development is successful and will be expanded, but it will have to be
associated with the establishment of more efficient linkages between
producers and consumers, including the promotion or better product handling,
storage and processing facilities. In this type of totally integrated
agricultural development, considerable experience is available in the coffee
zones of Colombia as a result of the agricultural diversification program of
the National Federation of Colombian Coffee Growers (FEDERACAFE) which was
begun in the late 1960s.
1.13      The agricultural sector's share of national public sector
investment dropped from 17% in 1970 to 8% in 1982. All agricultural
institutions suffered from this severe reduction in the allocation of
resources, but the impact was particularly serious for INCORA and ICA. The
national land policy was not well defined in the 1970s, but it was clear in
this period that, while INCORA was not required to carry out an active
agrarian reform program, it still had responsibility for the provision of
supervised credit and other services to about 200,000 families of settlers
and beneficiaries of earlier phases of agrarian reform although it was
entirely unable to provide an adequate coverage to more than a small
proportion of these farmers. For ICA the reduction of funds affected
principally the departments of research and technology transfer because the
Rural Development Department of ICA received additional resources from FFAP
and from the IRDP to finance small-holder extension services in selected
areas.   The reduction of funds for research led quite rapidly to a reduction
in appropriate research, failure to maintain facilities and replace
equipment, and, more slowly, to the loss of experienced research workers from
ICA and a decline in the number of Colombians and students from other Latin
American countries being trained in scientific disciplines relevant to
agricultural investigations.
D. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.14      Since 1966, the Bank has made 13 loans, totaling US$349.6
million, to Colombia for the agricultural sector. Project Performance Audit
Reports have been issued for five of them, including Loans 502-CO (Atlantico
Irrigation), 624-CO (Agricultural Credit), 651-CO (Second Livestock
Development), 739-CO (Caqueta Land Colonization - Phase I) and 849-CO (Second
Atlantico Development). In addition, an Impact Evaluation Report was issued
in 1982 on the Atlantico Irrigation Project (Annex 3). None of these
projects provided experience of direct relevance to the proposed Agricultural
Research and Extension Project, but each revealed weaknesses in its technical
base and also enabled the Bank to learn about the legal and administrative
systems under which the public sector operates in Colombia. These
experiences have been of assistance in preparing the present project. The
recent review by OED concerning the Bank's experience with the strengthening
of agricultural research and extension includes recommendations with which
the proposed project is fully consistent.



1.15       There are eight agricultural projects (loan total of
US$266.5 million) currently being implemented, three of which were made in
support of INCORA's agrarian reform efforts: the Caqueta II Rural Settlement
Project (Loan 1118-CO to the Government for US$19.5 million); the Cordoba II
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1163-CO to the Government for
US$21 million); and the Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1737-CO to
INCORA for US$20 million). Serious difficulties have been encountered with
these projects, principally because of the lack of counterpart funds and poor
financial management and subloan recovery by INCORA. Nevertheless, the
Caqueta II Project is a particularly interesting example of a settlement
scheme on the edge of the Amazon basin.
1.16      The other five ongoing operations are the Integrated Rural
Development Project (Loan 1352-CO to the Government for US$52 million), the
Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1357-CO to the Bank of the Republic
for US$64 million), the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1996-CO to
the Colombian Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement
(HIMAT) for US$37 million), the Upper Magdalena Pilot Watershed Management
Project (Loan 2069-CO to the National Institute for Renewable Natural
Resources and the Environment (INDERENA) for US$7.5 million), and the Second
Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 2174-CO to the Government, for
US$53 million). All these projects are proceeding satisfactorily, although
the last two have only recently been approved, so it is too early to form a
judgment on their performance.
1.17       In accordance with the public policies for the sector outlined in
paragraphs 1.04 to 1.09, discussions are proceeding, or will soon be
held, with the Government concerning the possible financing by the Bank of
any of the following studies and projects:
(a) fertilizer study (paras 1.05 (a) and 3.14);
(b) agricultural marketing study (para 1.07);
(c) agricultural credit study (para 1.08);
(d) second phase of irrigation and drainage districts rehabilitation
(HIMAT) (para 1.11);
(e) third phase of Caqueta Settlement scheme (para 1.10) provided INCORA
institutional problems can be resolved (para 1.15);
(f) agricultural diversification (FEDERACAFE) and a third phase of the
IRDP (para 1.12); and
(g) second phase of agricultural research and extension project (ICA),
with emphasis on extension (para 1.13).



- 6 -
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
A. The Development of Agricultural Research
2.01      Agricultural research in Colombia can be traced back to the
establishment of an official livestock acclimatization farm in 1879 and
official crop research stations in the 1920s at three key locations (Picota,
Cundinamarca; Amaro, Tolima; and Palmira, Valle). Agricultural research by
the private sector began in 1938 with the creation of the National Center of
Coffee Research (CENICAFE).This was followed by the formation of an Institute
of Cotton Development (IFA) in 1947 and the initiative of the National
Federation of Rice Growers (FEDEARROZ) in assigning a cess on rice to finance
public research. This example was followed by producers' associations and
firms concerned with barley, cocoa and tobacco who agreed to contribute to
the cost of research carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1938 the
Ministry took over responsibility for the Palmira station, where, at that
time, research was in progress for sugarcane, rice, tobacco, plantains,
cassava, maize, beans, soybeans and forage crops.
2.02      Following a long period of review (1943-50), responsibility for
public agricultural research was brought together within the Ministry of
Agriculture in the Office of Special Studies (OIE) that was to receive strong
support from the Rockefeller Foundation. OIE initiated soil and plant
protection studies and included potatoes among the commodities under
research. The OIE was upgraded to a Division of Agronomic Research (DIA) in
1955 and eight years later ICA was created as an autonomous entity, dependent
on the Minfstry of Agriculture. It was given responsibility for all public
agricultural research, extension and graduate education, in accordance with
Decree 3116 of 1963. As a result of the restructuring of the public
agricultural sector, in accordance with Decree 2420 of 1968, ICA was assigned
additional responsibilities for a number of regulatory and service functions
which previously had been carried out directly by the Ministry of
Agriculture: these functions included plant and livestock quarantine; the
regulation and inspection of farm inputs; the certification of seeds; and
rural development, which later became a major undertaking with the
development of the IRDP.
2.03      During the 1970s there was increasing general concern with the
suitability of the institutional framework and the orientation, effectiveness
and financing of agricultural research. Farm advisory services expanded
substantially during this period, both in the public and private sectors, but
these were not well coordinated; they did not convey the results of research
very effectively to many farmers; and did not constitute an effective channel
of communication between the farming community and the agricultural research
workers.
2.04      In 1977/78 the Interamerican Institute for Agricultural
Sciences 1/ (IICA) carried out a study with ICA on the assignment of
priorities and resources to agricultural research. A seminar on this subject
was held at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in
1/ Later titled the Interamerican Institute of Cooperation for
Agriculture.



February 1978. Later in that year the Bank carried out a review of
agricultural research and extension in Colombia (Annex 3), that drew
particular attention to the need to restructure these activities and to
establish for them clear priorities and reliable sources of finance from both
the public and private sectors, but there was not much recognition in the
public sector of the importance to the national economy of having a
comprehensive well run and financed network of agricultural research and
extension services.
2.05      At about this time (1977) the Association of Sugarcane Growers
(ASOCANA) established a Center for Sugarcane Research for Colombia
(CENICANA).
2.06      The National Planning Department (DNP) prepared a Plan for National
Integration, 1979-80 (PIN) that was approved by the National Council for
Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) for publication in March 1980. This was
not explicit concerning the revitalization of agricultural research, but
proposed a Research Council for Agriculture and Renewable Natural Resources
and recommended the simplification of the institutional structure of ICA. In
a concurrent analysis of Policy for Science and Technology prepared with the
Colombian Fund for Scientific Research and Special Projects "Francisco Jose
de Caldas" (COLCIENCIAS) (para 2.22), DNP proposed the reestablishment of an
earlier National Council of Science and Technology, but it was not specific
concerning the degree of control or influence the council should have over
agricultural research. The difficulty at this time was that there was no
overall assessment of agricultural priorities or a diagnosis of the factors
limiting farm production. This was provided between 1979 and 1982 through
the following stages, for which the titles of the reports are given in
Annex 3, Section B.
(a)   at the suggestion of DNP and in cooperation with the Agricultural
Sector Planning Office (OPSA) of the Ministry of Agriculture, ICA
compiled a detailed "Diagnosis of the Agricultural Technology of
Colombia" and then proposed a "National Plan for Agricultural
Research by ICA" (PLANIA) that was published in January 1981; and
(b)   during 1981 DNP prepared a document incorporating much of the
PLANIA and titled "Bases for the National Plan for Research in the
Agricultural, Forestry and Fisheries Sector," which was approved by
the National Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) in
November, 1981. This established: (i) that public funds
for research are to be allocated in accordance with the priorities
of the national development plan; (ii) that a policy must be
developed concerning the use of agricultural technology; (iii) that
a National System for Research and Technological Development of the
Agricultural Sector would be created comprising a National Council
and a National Fund, in both of which the private sector would
participate; (iv) that the institutional structures and financing
of ICA and INDERENA would be modified to enable them to carry out
their research responsibilities more effectively; and v) that the
financing of research by the private sector should be encouraged,
but care should be taken not to establish numerous small private
research stations. This document demonstrated the new



determination of the Government to rehabilitate the national agricultural
research capability and to establish the financial and managerial systems to
sustain sound research over the long term, involving both the private and
public sectors.
2.07       The ideas concerning agricultural research and technology, which
had evolved since 1978 were consolidated and received political support and
impetus during the 1981/82 election campaign. This included the formation of
a Peace Commission with a Sub-commission on Research and Transference that
brought together the views of farmers' organizations and the official
entities of the agricultural sector. The various issues and options were
discussed again at length at a seminar at CIAT in April 1982. Shortly after
the new administration took office in August 1982, a Presidential Commission
was set up by Resolution 385 of September 16, 1982 to:
(a)   define the policies and priorities for agricultural research; and
(b)   propose alternatives for the restructuring of ICA.
2.08       The Commission submitted its report to the Minister of Agriculture
in December 1982 and, in January 1983, the President accepted the advice of
the Commission concerning priorities and adopted the institutional
alternative for ICA that will lead progressively to ICA becoming once more an
institution responsible for (a) agricultural research; (b) the transference
of the results of research to intermediary institutions or extension agents;
(c) extension services for small-scale farmers within the IRDP; and (d)
graduate agricultural education. The implementation of these decisions is
disc-ussed in Chapter IV. There has been no agreement yet to activate the
National Council and Fund for Research and Technological Development of the
Agricultural Sector (para 2.06 (b) (iii)) although the ideas are under active
study, with the intention to draw the private sector into more active
participation in agricultural research.
B. The Development of Agricultural Extension Services
2.09       Throughout the long period of analysis and debate on agricultural
technology, less detailed attention has been paid to the flow of information
to and from farmers than to the generation of new technical solutions. There
is now no lack of understanding in Colombia of the vital importance to the
country of having an efficient extension network, and it is widely recognized
that the present proliferation of services is inefficient and costly and
does not provide more than limited coverage of the farming sector. Now that
the overall strategy for agricultural research has been determined, following
systematic analysis and consultation, it is proposed to begin immediately the
process of restructuring and strengthening research. A similar systematic
analysis and extensive consultation on the national requirements for, and
most efficient organization of, farm advisory services has already begun, and
this process would be supported by the proposed project through financing of
the preparation of a National Plan for the Transference of Technology for
Agriculture (PLANTRA) that is expected to be completed early in 1984.
It is the intention of the Government that PLANTRA will set the institutional
and financial framework within which there will be effective two-way
communication between research workers extension staff and all parts of the
Colombian farming community.



- 9 -
C. The Colombian Agricultural Institute in 1982
2.10      The Minister of Agriculture is the chairman of the board of
directors of ICA that is formed of the Chief of DNP; the General Manager of
INCORA; the Manager of FEDERACAFE; the Rector of the National University;
a representative of the National Association of Small-scale Farmers (ANUC);
and two members designated by the President of the Republic. This structure
ensures participation by the national representatives of the main users of
research results, but insufficient local involvement of farmers in the
shaping of research priorities or in the practical interpretation of the
results of investigations. This issue would be addressed by the proposed
project (paras 4.04 (a) and 5.02). The institute is directed by a General
Manager operating through (a) five Sub-managers responsible for departments
of research, rural development, crop production, animal production and
administration; and (b) nine Regional Managers each of whom has overall
administrative responsibility for all ICA activities within defined areas of
the country. The structure of ICA is summarized in the Chart.
2.11     ICA is responsible for the following functions in the agricultural
sector: biological, physical, economic and social research; the
transference of technology to other entities; extension services for
small-scale farmers, particularly for the IRDP; analysis and control of the
quality of agricultural inputs and outputs; registration of private farm
extension agents; crop and livestock health campaigns; the use of improved
inputs and techniques; and post-graduate training in agriculture. At
present some control and regulatory functions are intermingled with
responsibilities for research and extension. This has led to lack of
consistency in the objectives of some work units and this, in turn, has led
to reluctance in the private sector to support ICA financially, other than
through discreet narrowly focussed research contracts (para 2.16).
2.12      There are 27 research centers and stations distributed throughout
the farming areas of the country (Map IBRD 16816). These are classified as
four national research centers and one national veterinary laboratory; 12
regional centers and one regional veterinary laboratory; and nine research
stations. In addition, ICA has 30 diagnostic centers for animal diseases,
and 13 laboratories which provide services for the public as well as in
support of the commodity research programs. Other complementary services
provided by ICA are a livestock quarantine station at Barranquilla; a
specialized agricultural library; and a program for post-graduate training
in association with the National University.
2.13      For administrative purposes all centers and stations outside Bogota
are subordinate to the local Regional Manager of ICA. On the other hand, in
matters of research the line of control runs from the Sub-manager of the
Research Department to the National Program Division Chief and then through
Program Coordinators responsible for each scientific discipline, commodity or
group of commodities, to Regional Directors of Research, the Directors of
research centers or experiment stations, and, finally, to the leaders of
multidisciplinary groups that are formed for specific research programs or
projects. These parallel but separate chains of control for funds and for
scientific matters are unsatisfactory. The Directors of research centers and



- 10 -
stations have lacked clear guidance on the overall research strategy of ICA
and have not had the funds or the local authority to take decisions. These
structural problems have contributed to the reluctance of research workers to
consult with local farmers about the relative priorities of problems faced by
producers because, even if a local understanding is established, ICA staff
are not able to undertake the necessary research.
2.14      At the end of 1982, ICA had a staff of about 5,800, of whom 1,200
(21%) had professional qualifications, including 50 PhD and 413 MS. Only 38%
(2,200) of the ICA staff was directly engaged in the work of the
Research Department of whom 391 (18%) had professional qualifications; 31
PhD, 162 MS, and 198 BA (Table 1). This level of staffing for research was
considerably below that of the early 1970s, principally as a result of
resignations of qualified staff in the second half of the 1970s, because of
dissatisfaction with working conditions and declining public priority and
financing for research. By 1979 the total emoluments provided by ICA for PhD
and MS staff were less than provided by FEDERACAFE, the National
Apprenticeship Service (SENA) and the three principal universities. It
became particularly difficult to retain staff with MS qualifications in plant
pathology, agricultural economics, statistics and systems analysis. At the
PhD level, voluntary resignations were even more serious than at the MS level
and between 1970-79, 41 of the 62 hired by the Research Department of ICA in
this period resigned.
2.15      Expenditures by the Ministry of Agriculture on all investments and
operations declined sharply in constant terms from 1974, and even by 1981
they still had not recovered the real level of the early 1970s. Expenditures
by ICA, which were equivalent to about a quarter of the Ministry's, were also
cut by 10% in real terms over the four-year period 1974-77 but thereafter
almost regained their former level and by the end of the decade were
equivalent to about 38% of the expenditure of the Ministry. The percentage
of expenditure on research to the total expenditures of ICA dropped steadily
from 37% in 1970 to 26% in 1974 but subsequently recovered to around 32% of
the total (Table 2).
Average Annual Expenditures
Col$ million constant (1980)
Period        Ministry of Agriculture   All ICA         ICA Research Dept.
Value % of all ICA
1970-73                  8,239               2,362       747       31.6
1974-77                  5,993               2,117       603       28.5
1978-81                  5,541              2,180        704       32.3
2.16      The financial stringency of the mid-1970s led ICA to try to reduce
its dependence on the national budget by (a) increasing income from the sale
of produce from its farms and charging for all services; and (b) raising
more financial support from the private sector. In fact, between 1978-81 the
dependence of ICA on the national budget increased from 69% to 75% (Table 3),
principally as a result of its new responsibility to provide farm advisory



- 11 -
services for small-scale farmers in the IRDP (para 1.12). From the private
sector the main support came through the FFAP levy which was to finance
advisory services for other small-scale farmers (para 1.08). During the
period 1978-81 these two sources provided 23% of ICA's income which was
approximately equivalent to the cost of the Rural Development Department.
Private sector support for research was provided through cesses on cotton and
tobacco production and sundry other small research contracts, but in
aggregate these covered only about 6% of expenditures on research by ICA.
This disappointing level of private support for research by ICA reflected the
general perception that ICA was losing its best staff, was not adequately
maintaining its research facilities, and was a regulatory agency of
the Government to which the private sector was reluctant to provide financial
support.
Income of ICA
(Col$ million current)
1978     1979      1980     1981
Income
Public sector funds                849.8  1,078.0  1,785.9  1,948.0
ICA sales and services             157.7    260.5    292.2    339.5
Private sector funds               173.3    219.3    361.0    284.0
External funds                      44.1     34.2      51.5     41.4
Total Income                     1,224.9  1,592.0  2,490.6  2,612.9
Col$ million (1980)             2,011.3  2,038.4  2,490.6  2,062.3
2.17      Expenditure totals followed income availability and over the period
1978-81 were remarkably consistent in overall pattern (Table 3).
Expenditures on personnel accounted for 70% of the total; 23% was for
operating and marketing costs and 7% went on financial charges and
depreciation. Operating and marketing expenditures for ICA as a whole were
equivalent to one-third of all personnel costs (salaries, other personnel
emoluments and transfers, such as social security payments), but for some
research units, operating funds dropped to as low as 10% of the budget.
Expenditure of ICA
(Col$ million current)
Expenditure                        1978    1979       1980     1981
Personnel                       909.2  1,174.9  1,451.3  1,948.5
Operating and Marketing         301.6    370.0    497.6    646.7
Financial charges                72.7    103.2    192.8    208.5
Total Expenditure:            1,283.5  1,648.1  2,141.7  2,803.7
Col$ million (1980)  2,107.6  2,083.6  2,141.7  2,212.9
of which for research:
Col$ million current   431.9    555.5    670.3    928,5
Col$ million (1980)    709.2    702.3    670.3    732.8



- 12 -
2.18      In terms of constant pesos of 1980, from 1978 to 1981 there was no
substantial change in the level of expenditure of ICA as a whole or for the
Research Department. During the 1970s the expenditure by ICA on agricultural
research accounted for a proportion declining from 85% to 70% of the national
total. The balance was made up by CENICAFE (para 2.01) throughout the period
and, from 1978, by CENICANA (para 2.05). The total expenditure by these
three institutions as a percentage of the Gross Domestic Product (at factor
cost) from the agricultural sector declined from 0.36% in 1970 and 1971 to
about 0.25% from 1974 until 1981. This proportion may be compared with an
average of 0.42% for 13 middle-income Latin American countries quoted in
Annex 1 of the Bank's Sector Policy Paper on Agricultural Research (June,
1981).
D. National Post-graduate Training Program
2.19      The national Post-graduate Training Program (PEG), that has been
running since 1967, is an important part of the responsibilities of ICA,
since it prepares agricultural scientists at the National University for the
whole sector and not only for ICA itself. So far PEG has produced about 480
graduates from Colombia and other Latin American countries with MS degrees
around one-third of whom have joined the staff of ICA. For the period
1983-88 it is planned to train about 500 graduates to the MS level.
2.20      All training outside Colombia is coordinated by the Colombian
Institute for Educational Credit and Advanced Studies Abroad (ICETEX), which
is an autonomous agency of the Ministry of Education. At the end of 1982,
there were 76 ICA staff undergoing formal training, (17 at the PhD level and
59 were on MS courses) and a further seven on short courses abroad. The
courses of training being followed do not correspond fully with the recently
determined priorities for ICA; however, through the proposed project, it is
planned to bring the professional training program closely into line with the
needs of ICA for trained scientific and managerial staff.
E. National and International Collaboration in Research
2.21      There are numerous contracts between ICA and public and private
national and international financing and research entities. At the end of
1982 there were 47 current agreements between ICA and national entities and
40 agreements in effect with foreign and international entities. Many of
these agreements have not been operational, because ICA has been unable to
provide the necessary counterpart facilities, staff and funding.
Furthermore, there has not been a coherent research strategy into which
national and external support could be channeled effectively.
2.22      COLCIENCIAS (para 2.06) was established in 1969 as an autonomous
entity under the Ministry of Education to receive and allocate public and
private funds for scientific research in all sectors of the economy, and to
cover the associated expenses for travel and meetings. Until recently it has
not had much involvement with the agricultural sector, but since 1980 it has
provided ICA with a number of grants for specific studies. In 1982 it
received a loan of US$20 million from the Inter-American Development Bank
(TDB), of which about one quarter is to be assigned to the agricultural



- 13 -
sector. Projects to be financed in ICA include (a) the organization and
management of germplasm collections; (b) the formation of a semen bank for
local breeds; (c) the design and evaluation of farm machinery for steep
hillsides; and (d) a study of the incidence of crop diseases.
2.23      Research on coffee and white sugar production is carried out by the
specialized institutions of CENICAFE and CENICANA, respectively, and, in
addition, these institutes have contracts with ICA for specific studies or
services. The following other federations of growers and other entities
provide limited funds for research and analytical services provided by ICA
and some also contribute to the cost of investigations carried out on some of
their members' farms:
(a) National Federation of Cocoa Growers; FEDECACAO, maintains six
seed producing farms and carries out research in collaboration with
ICA and the Brazilian Institute of Cocoa Research (CEPAL);
(b) Program for the Diversification and Development of Coffee Zones;
PRODESARROLLO, carries out land use studies; forestry development
research with National Corporation for Forestry Research and
Development (CONIF) (para 2.24); cocoa research in association
with FEDECACAO and the chocolate industry; and research on beans,
cassava and pastures in collaboration with ICA and CIAT;
(c) Association of Banana Growers and Farmers of Uraba; AUGURA,
supports research on disease control on individual plantations;
(d) National Federation of African Palm Growers; FEDEPALMA, carries
out some economic research, while some individual plantations
conduct research with assistance from the French Institute for
Research on Oils and Oilcrops (IRHO);
(e) Colombian Confederation of Cotton; CONALGODON, is investigating
the possibility of establishing a cotton research institute;
(f) National Federation of Cotton Growers; FEDERALGODON, already
supports research and wishes to attract more support from the
textile industry and agrochemical suppliers;
(g) National Federation of Rice Growers; FEDEARROZ, has an effective
collaborative program with ICA and CIAT;
(h) National Federation of Cereal Growers; FENALCE, has collaborated
with CIAT and the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
(CIMMYT) as well as Spain and Yugoslavia in the local testing of
maize and wheat varieties;
(i) Maltery of Colombia, S.A.; carries out barley variety trials to
improve the quantity and quality of malt production;
(j) Colombian Association of Seed Producers; ACOSEMILLAS, principally
interested in collaborative testing of imported seeds;



- 14 -
(k) Colombian Federation of Cattlemen; FEDEGAN, maintains diagnostic
centers which could be more closely linked to ICA;
(1) National Association of Milk Producers; ANALAC, wishes to expand
collaboration with ICA in studies of cattle health and nutrition;
and
(m)  Corporation for Livestock and Crop Studies;  CEGA, was established
by the Livestock Bank in 1981 to carry out economic and policy
studies.
2.24      In 1974 the Government and the private industry created CONIF
(para 2.23 (b)) as a non-profit institution to be responsible for research
and development related to forestry and forest products. In 1981 CONIF
completed an analysis of the national forest resources and proposed a
National Plan for Forestry Research (PLANIF). This is complementary to
PLANIA (para 2.06 (a)), but does not form part of the proposed project,
although it might be incorporated into a later phase (para 1.17 (g)).
2.25      The IDB  made a loan 1/ to ICA in 1971 which was applied mainly to
the construction and initial equipping of research facilities over the
following 10 years. In 1977, the US-AID program provided a loan 2/ for
technology transfer to small-scale farmers. Other valuable support was
received by ICA in the 1970s from Canada, France, the Netherlands, the
Federal Republic of Germany, and the United Kingdom. The recent successful
rehabilitation of the Veterinary Medical Research Laboratory (LIVET) with aid
from the Federal Republic of Germany has provided a valuable basis upon which
to plan the rehabilitation of ICA as a whole. Regional collaboration in
agricultural research is being developed between the nations of the Amazon
basin (Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela) and the Colombian
Government has recently agreed to provide technical assistance from ICA to
the nations of Central America and the Caribbean. ICA maintains regular
contacts with many other international and regional specialized agencies,
including FAO, UNICEF and IICA, as well as the International Center for
Epizootics, and the Panamerican Centers for Foot and Mouth Disease and
Zoonosis.
2.26      Strong linkages have been developed between ICA and several of the
international research centers of the Consultative Group for International
Agricultural Research (CGIAR). ICA is responsible for the field testing of
improved rice, beans and cassava varieties developed jointly with CIAT, and
ICA's Carimagua station is an important center for pasture studies of CIAT
for acid, infertile soils of the tropical lowlands. A strong program of
collaborative work with potatoes has been established between ICA and the
International Potato Center (CIP) which is about to move its regional office
to the La Selva station of ICA where conditions are particulaly suitable for
testing for disease resistance. ICA maintains a duplicate international
potato germplasm collection for CIP at Tibaitata to safeguard against any
mishap occurring to the master collection at Lima, Peru. Collaboration with
CIMMYT is to be reinforced through the proposed project, principally through
1/ Loan 303-SF/CO, US$17,646,887.
2/ Loan 514-T-080, US$2,157,582.



- 15 -
the interchange of improved seeds of maize, wheat and triticale, and the
provision of training for ICA's staff at CIMMYT headquarters in Mexico. It
is planned also to strengthen links with the International Institute of
Tropical Agriculture (ITTA) in Nigeria, and the International Crops Research
Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in India, concerning research
into farming systems.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
Project Identification and Preparation
3.01      The Government of Colombia has requested the Bank to finance the
first phase of a program to rehabilitate the national agricultural research
and extension services through a loan to ICA. The feasibility study for the
proposed project was prepared by ICA, with assistance from Bank missions that
visited Colombia in April, June and September 1982, and the project was
presented to the Bank in October 1982. A list of Colombian and Bank studies
and working papers related to the proposed project is given in Annex 3.
Project Priorities and Strategies
3.02      Following a comprehensive review by Colombian authorities,including
ICA, of the factors of production, current farming systems and the definition
of problems susceptible to scientific research, priorities have been
established by the Government for the crop and livestock products upon which
research is to be conducted and the research centers that are to be
improved (Annex 3, Section B). The principal criteria used for the
determination of priorities are as follows:
(a) the relative importance of each product for human consumption;
(b) the participation of the product in national exports or imports;
(c) the intensity of labor use; and
(d) price and income elasticities.
3.03      During the review of priorities, it was decided to follow a
strategy for strengthening the national agricultural research service that
called for:
(a)   rehabilitation and equipping of existing laboratories and selected
research and experiment stations;
(b)   improving the remuneration of scientific staff and training
professional, technical support, administrative and service staff;



- 16 -
(c)   provision of funds adequate to permit active research and the
effective transfer of technology, while properly maintaining the
buildings, equipment, vehicles and other facilities of ICA for
agricultural research; and
(d)   strengthening of the administrative and financial management of
ICA, through the development of effective systems for the
management, access and use of general and scientific information.
3.04      The project would assist the national research and extension
services principally by:
(a)   intensifying biological, physical, economic and social research in
topics of national importance and the sharpening of the analytical
ability of ICA in order to raise the output of the agricultural
sector, with particular reference to:
(i) food production, particularly in rainfed areas;
(ii) export or import-substitution products; and
(iii) labor-intensive systems of production;
(b)   promoting the dissemination and application of results of
agricultural research and carrying out studies on the transference
of technology; and
(c)   training scientific and technical personnel for service within ICA
and the agricultural sector as a whole.
B. Brief Description
3.05      The project would comprise the following main components to be
carried out by ICA over six years:
(a) the rehabilitation, development and equipping of 15 agricultural
research stations and about two veterinary laboratories over five
years;
(b) establishment of one new agricultural and livestock research
station;
(c) training of about 270 staff at the post-graduate level over six
years and providing short courses for about 250 research and
support staff over five years;
(d) national and international consultant services totaling 14.5
man-years for scientific, technical, building design and management
support;
(e) salaries and operating costs for five years for about 300 new
research staff and a salary premium for about 190 existing and
about 230 new research workers with PhD and MS qualifications to
attract and retain high-level staff (Table 1);
if) the monitoring and evaluation of the research and technology
transfer activities of ICA; and



- 17 -
(g) review of the national farm extension systems and the preparation
of a plan and policy document (PLANTRA) as a basis for further
improvement to the farm advisory services of ICA and other public
and private institutions.
C. Detailed Features
Investments
3.06      The rehabilitation and development of research facilities of ICA
would be carried out through the establishment of one research station and
improvements to some of the existing centers, laboratories and stations which
have been selected on the basis of their suitability as sites at which to
study the farm products of highest priority. At each of the following 1l
sites (four National Research Centers (NRC); 12 Regional Research Centers
(RRC); and two Research Stations (RS)), one existing and one to be
established. All necessary physical improvements, essential equipment and
vehicles would be provided through the proposed project (Map IBRT) No.
16816). These requirements have been identified in detail for each center or
station listed below except for the new station proposed for the Orinoco
Region and include the following types of investment:
(a)   water, power and telecommunication services;
(b)   land preparation, including drainage and internal roads;
(c)   repairs and modifications to existing buildings and the contruction
of some minor buildings, such as stores;
(d)   vehicles, machinery, furniture and equipment for farm, office and
laboratory use; and
(e)   library and computing facilities.
Andine Region                   Caribbean Region             Inter-Andine Region
Tibaitata              (NRC)   Turipana             (NRC)   Palmira          (NRC)
Veterinary Medical              Veterinary Medical           Nataima         (RRC)
Research Labora-                Research Labora-           Pacific Region
tory (LIMV) (Bogota)(NRC)       tory (LIVET)              El Mira          (RRC)
Obonuco                (RRC)      (Turipana)        (RRC)   Amazon Region
El Nus                 (RRC)   Motilonia            (RRC)   Macagual         (RRC)
La Selva               (RRC)   Tulenapa             (RRC)   Orinoco Region
El Arsenal             (RS)    Caribia              (RRC)   La Libertad    (RS)
El Carmen           (RRC)   New Station    (RS)
30.7      The specific investment requirements for five years of each of the
following research work units have been determined individually, avoiding
duplication of facilities or equipment that could be shared between work
units. Lists of civil works, equipment, vehicles, livestock and improvements
have been compiled, (Annex 3, Project File) taking into consideration the
condition of existing equipment and facilities and, for the commodity
research programs, the relative level of priority of each program. The
priority levels range from A as the highest, to D for the lowest priority.
Consultancy services (para 3.13) would be provided to the work units marked
with an asterisk.



- 18 -
Division                        Priority      Division              Priority
AGRONOMY                                      ANIMAL SCIENCES
(a)  Programs                                 (a)  Programs
Maize and Sorghum            A/C              Beef Cattle           A
Rice                          A               Dairy Cattle          A
Minor Cereals                 B               Dual Purpose Cattle  A
Grain Legumes                 B               Poultry               C
Cotton                       A                Other Species         D
Perennial Oil Crops           B
Root and Tuber Crops          B          (b)  Disciplines
Plantains                     B               Animal Physiology
Sugarcane (non-centri-                        Animal Genetics
fugal sugar "panela")      C               Animal Production
Tobacco                       C                 Systems
Cocoa                         A               Animal Nutrition
Vegetables *                  A               Pastures and Forages
Fruit *                       C
Multiple Cropping            N/A        VETERINARY SCIENCES
Programs
(b)  Disciplines                                   Infectious Diseases
Plant Pathology *                               and Epidemiology *
Plant Entomology *                            Parasitology and
Plant Physiology *                              Entomology *
Soil Science                                  Pathology and
Plant Breeding *                                Toxicology *
Vesicular Diseases
AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING
Programs                                CENTERS AND STATIONS
Land and Water Development *
Agricultural Processes *
Agricultural Machinery
Land Improvement at Centers
and Stations
3.08      A laboratory for infectious livestock diseases would be built near
Bogota, because the existing laboratory at LIMV does not provide an
acceptable degree of biological containment. The new high-security
laboratory would have specialized air-handling and effluent disposal
facilities to minimize risks to research workers and to the human and
livestock populations in the vicinity of the laboratory. Preliminary
requirements for the new laboratory and the adaptation of the existing
laboratory have been defined, but specialist consultant services are
essential before detailed plans can be prepared (para 3.13). A virology
laboratory would be established near Monteria by modifying existing buildings
at LIVET and small laboratories for the study of ticks would be built at
El Nus and La Libertad.
3.09      Investments by the following four coordinating, service and support
units would be principally for equipment and vehicles:



- 19 -
(a) Project Coordination;
(b)  Statistics and Biometry;
(c)  Socio-economic Studies;  and
(d)  Library and Communications.
The project would finance consultant services (para 3.13) and the
investment costs necessary to strengthen each of these units, to expand the
computing facility at ICA headquarters, and to provide microcomputers for the
regional research centers. Library equipment would be provided for the
indexing and retrieval of technical information, including the establishment
of links with international information systems. Additional printing and
audio-visual equipment would be installed for the communications unit to
publish the results of research and to disseminate the latest technical
recommendations to the farming community.
Technical Assistance
3.10      The detailed requirements for technical assistance were defined
following a review of the current strengths and future responsibilities of
each of 49 work units in ICA (Table 4). The gaps in the currently available
skills in each unit to carry out the tasks summarized in Chapter V would be
met through a comprehensive staff training program and the provision of
consultancy services (Table 5). The phasing of the training program over six
years has been planned in accordance with the proposed research program;
however, consultant services would be engaged in accordance with detailed
terms of reference previously approved by the Bank as soon as a suitable
candidate has been identified for each task summarized briefly in Annex 1.
3.11      Training.  During the first five years of the project, about 66
staff of ICA would proceed on three-year periods of study leading to PhD;
the last group would return to Colombia in the sixth year of the project.
About a further 204 staff would follow two-year courses leading to MS or
equivalent qualifications; about half would attend courses in Colombia and
the balance would study at foreign institutions (Table 5).
3.12      Short courses (up to three months) in Colombia have been planned
for about 250 of the support staff. Some members of the staff may attend
more than one short course in five years of the training program. It would
be a condition of disbursement from the corresponding category that ICA had
submitted a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the training of professional
staff at the post-graduate level and the provision of short courses.
3.13      Consultant Services.  Consultancy requirements would amount to
14.5 man-years, of which it is estimated that two man-years would be
available locally. For budgeting purposes, it has been assumed that the
local consultants would be hired in the second and third years of the project
and that, overall, consultancy engagements would be distributed according to
the following percentages over the first five years of the project,
respectively:



- 20 -
28, 26, 27 10 and 9. Further details are provided in Annex 1 and Table 5 to
provide an indicative, but not restrictive, statement on the range of
consultancy services to be engaged for the proposed project.
Summary of Technical Assistance
Local            Foreign          Total
Training (Number)
Doctoral courses (3 years)                         66               66
Masters courses (2 years)        104              100              204
Short courses (2 months)         250               -               250
Consultant Services (man-years)    2                 12.5             14.5
3.14      Studies.  A study would be carried out by ICA in about one year in
two phases to provide a basis for a national plan to improve and coordinate
all forms of technical assistance to the agricultural sector (PLANTRA). The
first phase commencing in April 1983, which would take about six months,
would define the main categories of farmers and farming systems requiring
assistance; examine the efficiency of current farm practices, in particular
the use of fertilizers (para 1.05 (b)); and identify the main sources of
technical information and improved animal and crop genetic materials as well
as the principal public and private channels of communication that are
currently used. The second six-month period would be required for ICA to
analyze the information collected during the first phase and to prepare an
overall strategy and draft plan of action for consideration by
representatives of the farming community and the many public and private
institutions engaged in or affected by the provision of technical assistance
to farmers (Annex 1, Section B). Following a period of consultation of about
three months in which the Bank would take part, a final plan would be
prepared by the Government, as a basis for an investment project for which
external financing would be required (para 1.17 (g)). The review of the
study may lead to the conclusion that there should be some modifications to
the research priorities and strategies of PLANIA (para 2.06 (a)), in which
case any corresponding modifications to the proposed project would be
considered by the Government, the Bank and ICA. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the above study and plan would be carried out and
furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1984 and December 31, 1984 respectively.
Operating Costs
3.15      Personal Emoluments.  These include salaries, allowances (except
for the proposed scientific premia) and mandatory transfers from ICA to other
entities, such as the social security fund,amounting to about 267 of salaries
and allowances. All these expenditures are included in the total cost of the
proposed project for personnel of the ICA divisions who would participate in
the project (Chart) additional to the numbers present in 1982 (Year 0). The
total numbers in the Research Department for each of the five years are given
in Table l and summarized below.



- 21-
Unit Costs and Numbers of Staff in the Research Department
Average Annual Gross        Year 0            Year 5            Incremental
Level         Unit Personel Costs
Col$'000   US$'000    No.  Col$ M         No.    Col$ M       No.   Col$ M
PhD              1,500      21.6        31    46.50      117    175.50         86   129.00
MS               1,160      16.7       162   187.92      307    356.12        145   168.20
Subtotal:                         193   234.42       424    531.62       231   297.20
BA                 660       9.5       198   130.68      290    191.40         92    60.72
Technical
Assistant        375       5.4      599   224.63   1,116    418.50         517   193.87
Secretarial        306       4.4       172    52.63      333    101.90        161    49.27
Others             191       2.7    1,037   198.07   1,576    301.02          539   102.95
Total:                          2,199   840.43   3,739  1,544.44    1,540   704.01
3.16      Scientific Premia.  A premium is proposed for qualified research personnel
with equivalent degrees to a MS degree or higher in order to attract former staff to
return to ICA and to retain existing experienced staff. In order to be competitive
with other Colombian institutions (para 2.14) and regional institutions such as
IICA, an average scientific premium of 40% of the basic salary is proposed as
follows:
Transfers:
Average Annual (1982)   Scientific        26.33% of   Average Annual Unit
Level      Basic Salary            Premia         Scientific    Cost to ICA of
Average 40%        Premia    Scientific Premia
(Col$'000)           (Col$'000)    (Col$'000)        (Col$'000)
PhD             970                   388            102              490
MS              750                   300             79              379
The number of staff with PhD qualifications is expected to increase from 35 in the
first year to 117 by the fifth year of the project. During the same period, the
number of other staff eligible to receive a scientific premium over their basic
salary is expected to rise from 162 to about 307 (Table 1).
3.17      General Expenses.  These are made up of the following items, for which the
percentages of all general expenses in 1981 are shown for reference: (a) materials
and supplies, including spare parts and tools, 27%; (b) sundry items, 22%;
(c) travel and subsistence, 19%; (d) rental and similar charges, 12%; (e) public
utilities and communications, 9%; (f) operation and maintenance of vehicles, other
than those of professional staff, 9%; and (g) printing and publications, 2%. For
ICA as a whole, these expenditures have been equivalent to about one-third of gross
personnel costs (para 2.17), but nevertheless funds have been very limited for the
Research Department, for which the operating budgets have been of between 10% and
20% of personnel costs. It is proposed to include within the total project costs
incremental funds above the current budget level equivalent to 20% of the estimated
gross personnel costs of the Research Department in Year 0, in order to bring into
full use the installed research capacity and, for incremental operations, general



- 22 -
expenses would be equivalent to 40% of the incremental gross personnel costs
or 28% of total recurrent expenditure, other than for financial charges.
D. Project Costs
3.18      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$206.6
million, including contingencies. These costs include IJS$3.5 million in
taxes. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$52.7 million, or
25% of total project cost. Project baseline costs are updated to December
1982.   Physical contingencies equivalent to 1.8% of total baseline costs
have been added, based on 12% of estimated costs of civil works and station
development and 5% of estimated costs of equipment. Price contingencies have
been calculated separately for local and foreign costs, and a correction was
also applied for the Bank's projected devaluation of the Colombian peso,
according to the following assumptions:
Col$ to USS      International
Year       Domestic Price    Nominal Ex-         Price Index
Index          change Rate        1982 = 100
1982              100             69.6               100
1983              125             82.8               108
1984              155             96.5               116
1985              189            111.0               124
1986              227            126.5               131
1987              272            144.2               139
1988               -             164.4               147
A breakdown of project costs by program, station and category of investment
and operating expenditure is given in Tables 6 - 12. The average gross
baseline costs per man-year of internationally recruited consultant services
are estimated at US$74,000 for a total of 12.5 man-years and at half this
rate for two man-years of local consultancy services. Baseline training
costs are equivalent to US$21,600 per man-year for PhD for a total of 198
man-years and to US$12,665 per man-year for MS for a total of 408 man-years
(Table 5).



- 23 -
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
Foreign       Z of
Project Components                    Col$ million                    US$ million          Exchange      Proj.
Local    Foreign       Total    Local       Foreign  Total  Component    Cost
I. INVESTMENT
1. Civil Works           343.2       60.7       403.9       4.9         0.9       5.8   15
2. Equipment and
Furniture          390.5   1,307.5    1,698.0          5.6        18.8      24.4   77
Subtotal:                733.7   1,368.2    2,101.9        10.5        19.6      30.2   65
3. Vehicles              115.5      462.2       577.7       1.7         6.6       8.3   80
4. Livestock              48.7      -            48.7       0.7        --         0.7    0
5. Station Develop-
ment               343.1        60.6       403.7       4.9         0.9       5.8   15
Subtotal Investments:  1,241.0   1,891.0    3,132.0          17.8        27.2      45.0   60          32
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Consultant Services
(a) Internationally
Recruited                62.6        62.6                  0.9        0.9
(b) Locally
Recruited      6.9                    6.9       0.1                   0.1
Subtotal:                  6.9       62.6        69.5       0.1         0.9       1.0   90
2. Training
(a) Foreign         --        536.0       536.0      --           7.7       7.7
(b) Local          146.0       --         146.0       2.1        --         2.1
Subtotal:                146.0      536.0       682.0       2.1         7.7       9.8   78
3. Studies
PLANTRA         69.6        0.0        69.6       1.0         0.0       1.0    0
Subtotal Tech. Ass.:   222.5        598.6       821.1       3.2         8.6      11.8   73           8
III. OPERATING COSTS
1. Monitoring and
Evaluation          76.6       --          76.6        1.1       --          1.1    9
2. Personal Emolu-
ments            3,187.7       --       3,187.7       45.8       --         45.8    0
3. Scientific Premia   617.2         --         617.2       8.9        --         8.9    0
4. Other Costs         1,521.2      506.4    2,027.6       21.8         7.3      29.1   25
Subtotal Operating
Costs:                  5,402.7      506.4    5,909.1       77.6         7.3      84.9    9           60
IV. PROJECT BASELINE COST:  6,866.2   2,996.0    9,862.2          98.6         43.1    141.7   30          100
V. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical              101.7       80.0       181.7       1.5         1.1       2.6                 2
2. Price              6,525.4 a!  591.9    7,117.3         53.8         8.5      62.3                44
Subtotal Contingencies: 6,627.1        671.9    7,299.0       55.3         9.6      64.9   15           46
VI. TOTAL PROJECT COST b/: 13,493.3   3,667.9   17,161.3    153.9              52.7    206.6   25          146
a!  Weighted exchange rate, Col$ 121.41US$;  all other figures, Col$ 69.6/US$.
b/ Including front-end fee.



- 24 -
E. Financing
3.19      The proposed Bank loan of US$63.4 million (including the 0.25%
front-end fee) would finance 317 of total project costs, including the entire
foreign exchange cost and US$10.7 million of local costs (5% of total project
costs). Some local currency expenditures would be financed in order for the
Bank to retain a meaningful participation in national agricultural research
and extension. ICA would provide from its own resources and with funds from
the national budget, 69% of the total project cost.
ICA               Bank          Total
Project Components                                       Expenditures
Tr$ M   %        tJS8 M   %      US$ M   X
Investments               25.2  38          41.1  62        66.3  10O
Technical Assistance        6.4  38         10.6  62        17.0  100
Incremental Operating
Costs                  111.1  91          11.2   9      122.3  100
Working Fund               0.5  50           0.5  50         1.0  100
Total Project Cost    143.2  69          63.4  31       206.6  100
3.20      The loan would be made to ICA with the guarantee of the Government
for a term of 17 years, including approximately four years of grace, at a
variable interest rate that would be one-half percent above the cost of
qualified borrowings by the Bank for the semester immediately preceding each
six monthly interest period. The foreign exchange risk on the servicing of
the loan would be borne by ICA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that financing would be as specified in this and the preceding paragraph.
F. Procurement
Works
3.21      Civil works contracts totaling USS8.4 million, including
contingencies, would be awarded according to local competitive bidding
procedures that are satisfactory to the Bank, with foreign bidders having the
opportunity to participate. The balance of civil works estimated to cost
about US$1.0 million would be carried out by force account (Table 10).
However, because of their modest size and limited scope, these contracts are
unlikely to interest companies not already operating in Colombia, or even
those already established in the regions where the research stations are
located (Map IBRI) No. 16816).
Goods
3.22      Vehicles (US$12.0 million, including contingencies) and laboratory
and other equipment (US$15.1 million, including contingencies), totaling
US$27.1 million, would be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would



- 2j -
receive a preference in bid evaluation of up to 15%, or the import duty,
whichever is the lower.
3.23       The balance of farm and office equipment and furniture, totaling
US$10.4 million (including contingencies), and research station and
laboratory development investments (US$6.6 million, including contingencies)
would be procured in many dispersed purchases spread over five years under
local procedures with foreign bidders having the opportunity to participate.
A wide range of international and local manufacturers of vehicles, equipment,
materials and agricultural inputs are represented in Colombia, competition is
satisfactory, and servicing and spare parts are available.
Contract Review
3.24       All bidding packages estimated to cost over US$150,000 equivalent
for equipment, or over US$700,000 equivalent for civil works, would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation, resulting in
a coverage of about 70% of the total estimated value of works contracts and
about 50% of contracts for goods. The balance of contracts would be
subjected to random review by the Bank after contract award.
Consultant Services
3.25       The services of consultants would be engaged in accordance with
"Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the procurement procedures specified in this
and in paragraphs 3.10 and 3.21 to 3.24 would be followed.
G. Disbursements
3.26       The Bank would disburse over a period of seven years:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and 60% of
local expenditures for locally procured goods and services for the
following total values:
(i) equipment, furniture, materials,
agrochemicals and spare parts                         US$24,600,000;
(ii) vehicles  -                                           US$ 6,600,000;
(iii)  local and foreign training for a total
value of                                             US$ 8,800,000;
(b)  100% of expenditures for:
(i)  civil works                                          US$ 6,200,000;
(ii)  consultant services and studies for a
total value of; and                                  US$   850,000;
(c)  incremental operating expenditures 1/                      US$ 5,550,000;
(d)  50% cost of scientific premia for a total value of US$4,700,000,
subject to the limits described in paragraph 3.27;
1/ Excluding salaries, benefits and related expenditures.



- 26 -
(e)  initial deposit for the working fund  -                 US$500,000; and
(f)  front-end fee of                                        IJSSl58,105.
The balance of US$5,441,895 would be unallocated in the loan.
3.27       Disbursements for the scientific premia to be paid to all eligible
staff would be made at quarterly intervals on the basis of statements of
expenditure on declining scale. These would indicate the number of eligible
staff who had been on duty for the entire quarter and the aggregate of their
basic salaries, not exceeding three monthly salaries for any individual
member of staff. In order to phase out Bank participation in financing the
scientific premia, the following would be the maximum cumulative amounts to
be disbursed by the Bank for each of the first five years of the proposed
project.
June 30             Distribution of              Loan Disbursement Limit
Baseline Cost of Premia            US$ million          7
1984                      14                         1.1               23
1985                      28                         2.2               47
1986                     48                          3.3               70
1987                     72                          4.0               86
1988                    100                          4.7              100
3.28       In an effort to facilitate rapid project execution, a working fund
would be established with US81.0 million equivalent to cover about three
months of local expenditures. The establishment of a special accotnt for
such a fund would be a condition of effectiveness and the ordering by the
Government of the release of US$0.5 million equivalent would be a condition
of disbursement of US$0.5 million equivalent from the Loan Account to the
fund. In order to allow for the necessary time to complete the budgetary
process, the Government would have up to 30 days to deposit the monies in the
special account. Subsequent disbursements to replenish the fund would he
carried out according to standard Bank procedures, but provided that the
Government has already approved the release of ICA's share of the
replenishment. Every six months, the Government, the Bank and ICA would
rcview the operation and size of the fund and agree on any necessary
changes.
3.29       Retroactive financing is recommended for eligible payments made
before the date of the Loan Agreement, but after January 1, 19R3, for an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$1 million for final design studies
for civil works; consultant services; equipment; materials; agrochemicals;
spare parts and furniture; and incremental operating expenses. Other
conditions of disbursement are contained in paragraph 4.11.
3.30       Disbursements for the scientific premia and studies and incremental
operating expenses would be made against Statements of Expenditure. The
supporting documentation would be retained by ICA and made available to the
Bank and external auditors for inspection during the course of project
supervision and audit inspections. All other disbursements would be
supported by ecandard documentation.



- 27 -
3.31      The estimated schedule of disbursements by the 'Bank is summarized
below, assuming that the date of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be
no later than October 31, 1983.1/ This schedule is based on conservative
projections made separately for each line of expenditure to be financed by
the Bank. The estimated date of project completion would be June 30, 1989
and the estimated closing date would be June 30, 1990, which would be one and
a half years shorter than indicated by the regional standard disbursement
profile for agricultural projects (Ta-ble 11), because expenditures to be
financed by the Bank would be predominantly in the first three years of the
proposed project. The project cash flow is summarized in Table 12.
Fiscal Year             Disbursed
and Semester         During Semester             Cumulative
-------------- US$ million ---
FY84      1                      0.7                       0.7
2                     2.2                       2.9
FY85      1                     6.9                        9.8
2                    10.4                      20.2
FY86      1                    11.2                       31.4
2                     9.4                      40.8
FY87      1                     7.5                       4R.3
2                     5.1                      53.4
FY88      1                     3.6                       57.6
2                     2.7                      59.7
FY89      1                      2.1                      61.8
2                     1.3                      63.1
FY90      1                     0.2                       63.3
2                     0.1                      63.4
IV. PROJECT IMPLRMFNTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The project would be implemented by ICA through its established
administrative and technical Divisions coordinated by a Project Coordination
Unit to be formed for that purpose within the Office of Planning with the
assistance of a consultants (Annex 1). The unit would be headed by a Project
Coordinator and comprise the following three groups:
(a) administration;
(b) human resources; and
(c) monitoring and evaluation.
4.02      During the course of implementation, the overall structure of ICA
would be substantially changed, but this should not disrupt the working of
the divisions to be involved in the proposed project and, furthermore, the
linkages between research and the transfer of technology would be
1/   This assumption is based on Board presentation in mid 1983.  The project
completion date would remain unchanged if retroactive financing was
approved from January 1, 1983 (para 3.29).



- 28 -
strengthened (para 4.04) and later would be reinforced through PLANTRA
(para 3.14). The stages of institutional transformation at the departmental
level are summarized below.
Present structure        Transitional structure       Eventual Structure
Administration           Administration               Administration
Research                 Research                     Research
Rural Development        Transfer of Technologv       Transfer of Technology
Crop Production          Agricultural Development   Agricultural Education
Livestock Production    Agricultural Regulations
and Control
4.03      Eventually the functions of agricultural development, regulations
and controls would revert from ICA to the Ministry of Agriculture or be
transferred from ICA to other public institutions of the agricultural
sector, WMhile the study to prepare PLANTRA is carried out by ICA to define
the national strategy and priorities for farm advisory services, the
Government would assess how best to reassign responsibilities for
agricultural development, regulations and controls that are now performed by
ICA. Assurances were received during negotiations that the broad strategy
for the reorganization of ICA would be determined by the end of 1983 and be
implemented during 1984.
B. Planning for Implementation
4.04      Overall priorities and strategies for agricultural research have
been established (paras 3.02 and 3.03) to the level of particular commodity
programs and among the research centers, and these are expected to continue
to be broadly the same throughout the execution of the project although they
should be reviewed by December 31 of each year, and in the light of the
outcome of the study for PLANTRA (para 3.14). ICA, until the project has
been completed would furnish to the Bank a detailed plan of activities,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out under the project during the
following calendar year. The plan would include the Borrower's proposed
annual budget for the execution of such plan. Within groups of commodity
research programs (minor cereals, vegetables, etc.) and for each research
center the planning and review of research would be carried out in the
following two ways:
(a)  research consultative committees for groups of commodity research
programs and centers, comprising the respective directors as
chairman and farmers, research workers and farm extension agents.
Each committee would meet at least once a year and no more
frequently than quarterly. These committees would usually total
seven to nine members each. Their purpose would be to agree upon
the nature of the problems requiring investigation and to comment
on the practical significance of research results produced by the
respective programs and stations. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that, by no later than December 31, 1983 ICA
would present to the Bank for approval detailed proposals for the
constitution and operations of research consultative committees;
and
(b)  research review meetings would resume assessing the justification
of initiating or continuing individual research projects. These
meetings are formed of the program coordinator, a member of the
Statistics and Biometry Division, a research worker from the same
division as is proposing the research project and two other members



- 29 _
of ICA's staff. These meetings are convened periodically by the
corresponding head of the division. Assurances were received
during negotiations that, by no later than December 31, 1984, these
research review meetings would be resumed and thereafter
maintained. These meetings would include senior representatives of
each division involved and would take into consideration the views
of the local research consultative committees and comments by the
Bank and international scientists; and
(c) in addition, at about two year intervals there would be external
reviews of (i) ICA's overall research strategy; and (ii) ICA's
commodity specific research objectives and accomplishments in which
scientists of international reputation would take part. The first
overall review of ICA's research strategy would take place shortly
after the completion of the study of PLANTRA (para 3.14).
4.05      Through the implementation of the project, ICA would be able to
take advantage of the many offers of national and international cooperation
(paras 2.21 and 2.26). During negotiations discussions were held with ICA
with a view to activate contracts which would contribute to the current
research program and cancel the balance of contracts outstanding.
4.06      Funds for research programs and disciplines and for the
development, maintenance and operations of each research center and to the
technology transfer divisions would be transmitted directly from ICA
headquarters to the centers and divisions, where the expenditure is to be
incurred and would not be channelled through the office of the MAG regional
directors. Increased responsibility and autonomy would be given to the
directors of centers and divisions to ensure that all research work,
demonstrations and seed production is carried out in accordance with the
needs of the surrounding farming community and consistent with the overall
national research and development strategy for the agricultural sector (para
3.03). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the lines of control
and the transmission of funds would be consistent with the proposals in this
paragraph.
4.07      The planning for future extension work would be the purpose of the
PLANTRA study (para 3.14); meanwhile, the Department of Rural Development
would continue to carry out its responsibilities for providing farm advisory
services to small-scale farmers, particularly in IRDP districts partially
financed by Loans 1352-CO and 2174-CO.
C. Staff Training and the Use of Consultant Services
4.08      The Project Coordinating Unit, through its human resources group,
would maintain under continuing review the skill-gap assessment conducted
during appraisal (para 3.10) for each of ICA's work units involved with
agricultural research, extension or administration. This would provide a
basis for determining (a) if ICA has the necessary trained staff to carry out
a proposed work program; (b) the training needs of the institution; and (c)
the requirements for consultant services to supplement the skills of the
staff of ICA.



- 30 -
4.09      The administration and human resources groups in the Project
Coordinating Unit would be responsible for locating training courses for ICA
staff in accordance with the continuing skill-gap assessments and for
external training; they would work in close collaboration with ICETEX (para
2.20). These groups would also be responsible for locating and hiring
external consultant services in accordance with Bank guidelines for the
purposes summarized in Annex 1 and Table 5.
4.10    The human resources group would submit quarterly reports to the
Project Coordinator including particulars on (a) staff requiring training;
(b) staff under training; (c) staff returning from training, with
assessments of the quality and appropriateness of the training received; (d)
requirements for consultants; (e) consultants hired; (f) the performance of
consultants; (g) administrative matters, including staff and consultant
remuneration, travel and subsistence expenses; and (h) the status of the
commitment and disbursement of tunds allocated for training and consultants.
4.11      It would be a condition of disbursement from the corresponding
categories of the proposed loan (para 3.26) that ICA had submitted plans,
satisfactory to the Bank, for (a) local and foreign training of the project,
and (b) for the establishment of the proposed new research station, including
research objectives, staffing, equipment needs, and civil works designs.
D. Operations and Maintenance of Facilities and Services
4.12      The coordination of operations and maintenance of all facilities
and services at research centers and stations would be the responsibility of
a division recently created for this purpose in the Research Department.
This division can call upon the General Services and Contruction divisions of
the Administrative Department to carry out all major works, and, in
addition, station directors have limited funds for local works by force
account.
4.13      ICA will seek approval from the Comptroller General to use some
funds generated from sales of produce and the provision of services by ICA to
purchase each year indexed Government bonds equivalent in value to the annual
depreciation of vehicles and equipment shown in the annual balance sheets of
ICA. The value of these bonds should keep more or less in line with the cost
of replacing worn-out equipment; therefore, following the proposed Bank
loan, it should not be necessary for ICA to seek external funds to replace
vehicles and equipment which would then be financed through the sale of the
indexed bonds.
E. Accounts and Auditing
4.14      ICA would maintain separate project accounts for the proposed
project in accordance with sound accounting principles and methods,
consistently applied. Consultancy services would be contracted no later than
June 30, 1984 to review the existing system of accounting and to design a
system to improve the presentation and flow of information to management
(Annex 1). The project



- 31 -
accounts and related basic financial statements would be audited annually, in
accordance with sound auditing standards, by independent auditors appointed
by ICA and acceptable to the Bank. The scope of each annual audit
examination would be sufficient to enable the independent auditors to express
an opinion on compliance by the Guarantor and the Borrower wit" the
obligations of the Guarantee and Loan Agreements and an opinion as to whether
or not the project's annual balance sheet, related statements of activity and
changes in financial positions, present fairly the financial position of the
project and the results of its operations for the period covered by the audit
on a basis consistent with that of the preceding period. A specific opinion
of the Fiscal Auditor of the Comptroller General's office would be required
on the accuracy of each Statement of Expenditure submitted to the Bank (para
3.30). The independent auditors would be required to communicate to the
Board of ICA any material weaknesses in internal accounting control that may
come to their attention in the course of their examination of the financial
statements made in accordance with sound auditing standards. Details on
audit requirements are in Annex 2.
4.15      The basic financial statements, together with the independent
auditor's opinion on compliance with the financial and accounting clauses of
the Loan Agreement, would be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. The underlying annual financial
statements would be prepared using the accrual basis of accounting and would
consist of a balance sheet, statements of activity and changes in financial
position for each year with comparative figures for the previous fiscal year,
and such explanatory notes and supporting schedules as may be appropriate in
the particular circumstances and with such other additional information as
the Bank from time to time might request. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the accounting and auditing procedures outlined above would
be followed.
F. Monitoring and Reporting
4.16      The Project Coordinator would be responsible for monitoring
operational progress for the duration of the proposed project, according to a
program previously agreed upon by the Bank. Separate books, accounts and
records would be kept in reasonable detail, to reflect the transactions
relating to the inputs, outputs, sales, market prices, employment, and
operational and administrative costs of the investments and investigations of
the project and to permit measurement and evaluation of overall performance
in monetary and physical terms against programmed budgets or such other
criteria as the Bank or the Project Coordinator may reasonably adopt. The
Project Coordinator, with the assistance of consultants (Annex 1), would also
design and maintain systems of internal control in order to ensure
accountability for project programs, investments and assets and would be
required to submit to the Bank half-yearly progress reports and annual
evaluation reports.
4.17      Local research consultative committees (para 4.04 (a)) would ensure
that regional and local research centers and stations would investigate
immediate local problems and make suggestions concerning the balance between



- 32 -
the various types of research (para 5.01). The recommendations of the
committees would be compiled by the monitoring and evaluation group of the
Project Coordination Unit (para 4.01 (c)). ICA's internal research review
meetings (para 4.04 (a)) and special external program reviews would use the
criteria specific to each commodity and discipline program summarized in
paragraphs 5.04 to 5.18. These stratagies and others to be identified by the
consultative and review committees would be used to evaluate the
accomplishments of research programs and the capacity of the scientific staff
of ICA to design and conduct research relevant to the requirements of the
Colom1hian agricultural community.
4.18      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:  (a) monitoring
and evaluation procedures would be carried out as outlined in paragraphs
4.10, 4.16 and 4.17; (b) half-yearly progress reports would be received by
the Bank within two months of the end of each period; (c) annual evaluation
reports would be received by the Bank within four months of the end of the
fiscal year; and (d) a draft project completion report would be prepared by
the Project Coordinating Unit and be submitted to the Bank no later than four
months after the investments of the proposed project had been completed.
V. RESFARCH STRATEGY AND DIRECTIONS
A. Introduction
5.01      Research activities would be of the following four main types, with
the type of investigation to be undertaken, depending upon the current state
of national and international knowledge in the particular field:
(a)  Basic research:  there would be little if any research into
fundamental biological and physical processes, but units
specialized according to scientific discipline would be maintained
and strengthened to form elements of multidisciplinary teams to
carry out other types of research;
(b)  Applied research:  the majority of the investigations would be of
this type, the objectives of research being to resolve problems
faced by farmers;
(c)  Adaptive research:  this would include checking locally the
performance of farm practices and genetic material developed in
other countries and in other parts of Colombia. This type of
research would often be carried out on private farms, but under the
full control of ICA staff; and
(d)  Verification and demonstration:  in this type of research on
private farms, responsibility would be shared between the farmer
and staff of ICA. The PLANTRA study would examine how to improve
the quality of the design and management of this type of research.
5.02      With the greater local autonomy to be given to research station
directors (para 4.06), it will be possible to involve local farmers more
effectively in defining local problems to be studied, consistent with the
overall national priorities (para 3.07 and 4.04 (a)), and periodically to



- 33 -
review the results of research. ICA has a well established system of peer
reviews of both research plans and papers for publication. Through the
project, the system would be strengthened by providing adequate funding for
the research itself and to resume meetings of local and international
scientists to review regularly research strategy, directions and results
(para 4.04 (b)).
5.03      The following paragraphs summarize the broad lines of research to
be followed by each major program or discipline. These have been well thought
out and would be supported through the proposed project. However, the number
of research activities or experiments shown by years for each work unit in
Table 16 should be regarded as only indicative of the rates of change
expected for each line of research during the implementation of the proposed
project. These paragraphs provide some indicators against which the proposed
project could be evaluated after it has been completed.
B. Agronomy
Food and Feed Grains
5.04      Maize varieties would be developed with support from CIMMYT (a) for
integration into multiple-cropping systems on small-scale farms on steep
hillsides; (b) for planting at low altitudes in hot climates; and (c) for
use in larger scale, mechanized production systems. Sorghum studies would
aim to (a) improving the grain: leaf ratios; (b) reducing the vegetative
cycle; (c) increasing resistance to diseases of the grain and panicle; and
(d) developing varieties suitable for the lowlands of the north coast. Rice
research under irrigated conditions with support from CIAT would seek (a)
high yielding varieties with resistance to diseases of the leaf and panicle;
and (b) more efficient use of water and fertilizers. More attention would be
given to upland rice varieties adapted to acid soils, such as found in the
eastern lowlands. Wheat research would continue at a modest level and with
support from CIMMYT to (a) provide disease resistant varieties with
acceptable grain quality and yield; (b) improve the efficiency of weed
control and fertilizer use; and (c) introduce improved systems and equipment
for land preparation and harvesting on steep hillsides. Research objectives
for barley as a feed grain and for triticale from CIMMYT would be similar to
those for wheat.
Grain Legumes and Seasonal Oil Crops
5.05      Bean research would continue the recently successful efforts, in
association with CIAT, to combine disease resistance, good agronomic features
and high yields, with satisfactory cooking characteristics. More attention
would be given to selecting varieties to be grown in association with other
crops on small-scale farms on steep hillsides. Soybean research would work
toward developing production systems for the northern coastal lowlands to
reduce the dependency of that region on cotton. Studies would include seed
treatment, plant populations and the use of herbicides. Sesame production
has been limited by Fusarium wilt; therefore, research would continue to
focus on combining resistance to wilt with high yields and minimizing losses
during harvesting. Cotton research would continue despite the current
adverse world and local market demand for cotton fiber, because of the
long-term importance of this crop as a source of material for the national



- 34 -
textile industry, high quality edible oil, and employment in areas of high
unemployment. Investigations would be directed to (a) developing systems of
integrated pest management; (b) breeding for resistance to pests and
diseases; (c) improving water management and fertilizer use, particularly in
the northern coastal region; and (d) quality of fiber.
Associated and Multiple Cropping
5.06      ICA research workers have been leaders in the field of studies of
associated and multiple cropping and this work would continue to have high
priority to integrate the work of other agronomy programs and to determine
the farming systems most appropriate to raising the standard of living of
small-scale farmers.
Perennial Oil Crops
5.07      Oil palm research would continue to check on the performance of
imported material and adapt introduced management systems to local
conditions, with particular attention to limiting losses from pests and
diseases and raising the yield of oil. Work on coconuts would be limited to
identifying varieties suitable for the Pacific coast.
Root and Tuber Crops
5.08      Potato research would continue, in close collaboration with CIP, to
focus on producing varieties which combine resistance to blight and bacterial
wilt with high yields of tubers that have the appearance and cooking
characteristics favored by consumers. In addition, frost-resistant lines
would be sought for use at high altitudes. Cassava research, in association
with CIAT, seeks to reduce the vegetative cycle while producing high yields
of tubers with good cooking characteristics. Agronomic practices would be
studied in conjunction with the program for associated and multiple
cropping. If demand develops from the stock-feed industry and for industrial
starch, it may then be justifiable to develop industrial-scale production
methods for this crop.
Other Crops
5.09      Plantain research would be increased to include studies of (a)
plant population; (b) response to fertilizer; and (c) the optimum time of
harvesting. Sugarcane investigations would be designed to assist small scale
farmers on steep hillsides by (a) reducing the period between harvests from
20 months to 16 months and raise the yield at each cut by 20%; and (b)
developing varieties resistant to leaf rust and smut, in conjunction with
CENICANA. Tobacco research would aim at selecting varieties (a) suitable for
the dry parts of the north coast; (b) resistant to diseases and pests,
including nematodes; and (c) responsive to fertilizer applications while
maintaining good leaf quality. Cocoa research would be carried out in
collaboration with FEDECACAO with the main emphasis on developing (a)
varieties resistant to witches'broom and monilia diseases; and (b) practical
methods for the control of these diseases on at least 30% of existing
plantations.



- 35 -
Horticulture
5.10      Vegetable research is to be expanded considerably, particularly
forpeas, tomatoes, onions, carrots and members of the cucurbit family. In
addition to studies of plant protection and agronomic practices, local seed
production would be investigated. Fruit research would be limited to
developing (a) citrus material resistant to tristeza; (b) papaya material
resistant to the lethal complex of viruses prevalent in Colombia; and (c)
harvesting and marketing systems to reduce losses.
Agronomy Disciplines                       1
5.11      The five scientific disciplines would be principally involved in
the implementation of the various crop research programs. In addition,
however, they have general objectives which are summarized in the following
paragraphs:
(a) Plant Pathology. To quantify the physical and economic losses
atributable directly or indirectly to pathogens (fungi, bacteria,
nematodes, viruses) of the main crops;
(b) Plant Entomology. To reduce the cost of control of insect pests of
the main crops from the current level of between 20% and 40% of
input costs to 15% to 35% of input costs, principally through the
development and testing of integrated pest management systems,
which, it is hoped, will be used by 40% of large-scale farmers and
20% of small-scale farmers;
(c) Plant Physiology. To develop a better understanding of plant
physiology, particularly of fruit formation, in order to improve
plant breeding. To develop an economic control of Cyperus spp.
suitable for use in rice and cotton production;
(d) Soil Science. To study (i) the interactions between crop plants
and saline and alkaline soils; (ii) the availability and
management of minor elements; (iii) the standardization and
calibration of methods for the analysis of soils and plant
material; and (iv) strategies of soil management to reduce soil
erosion in collaboration with the Agricultural Engineering
Division; and
(e)  Plant Breeding.   To construct and equip facilities for a germplasm
collection that would be regenerated periodically; to collect
genotypes of all crops of importance to the country; to classify
and evaluate plant material of national and foreign sources; and
systematize and process the documentation and data on plant
improvement with the assistance of a minicomputer.
C. Animal Sciences
5.12      The results of past research have had a notable impact on livestock
production in Colombia, particularly through cattle breeding that has
combined the local "criollo" and introduced zebu cattle. The proposed



- 36 -
project would enable this good work to continue and, in particular,
would support the following programs of research, all of which would be
subject to economic as well as technical analysis:
(a) Beef Cattle: to improve management systems to raise reproduction
and growth rates; conserve, multiply and improve criollo breads to
be used in cross-breeding programs with zebu cattle;
(b) Dairy Cattle: to improve dry season management of pastures and
forages; improve reproductive performance; evaluate and improve
breeds for subtropical (intermediate altitude) regions; and milk
processing;
(c) Dual-purpose Cattle: to develop criollo x zebu crosses with
improved milk production characteristics and better systems for
pasture and forage management and calf-rearing; and
(d) Poultry: to develop management systems based on locally grown
feedstuffs.
Animal Science Disciplines
5.13      The following scientific disciplines would support the commodity
programs and also conduct research in the topics listed below:
(a) Animal Physiology: (i) studying cattle semen and ova production
and physiology; (ii) monitoring commercial production, freezing
and transplanting of cattle embryos; and (iii) studying the effect
of nutrition on the reproductive performance of cattle;
(b) Animal Genetics: (i) conserving the most valuable criollo breeds
of cattle; and (ii) developing crossing programs that maximize
hybrid vigor of cattle and can be used by farmers;
(c) Animal Production Systems: (i) adapting international livestock
production simulation models to Colombian conditions; and (ii)
evaluate the relation between pasture stocking rate, pasture
consumption and livestock production;
(d) Animal Nutrition: determining the nutritive value of (i) pastures
and forages; (ii) by-products for ruminants; and (iii)
non-traditional feeds for non-ruminants; and investigating mineral
deficiencies and forage toxicities; and
(e) Pastures and Forages: (i) identifying species tolerant to low soil
fertility; (ii) studying pasture management for dryseason
grazing; (iii) determining incidence and resistance to pests and
diseases; and (iv) conserving forages for specialized dairy
operations.



- 37 -
Veterinary Sciences
5.14      The proposed project would strengthen the staffing and facilities
of four disciplines of veterinary medicine to provide a sound basis for the
existing 30 diagnostic centers that have direct contact with livestock
producers. In the light of the findings of the PLANTRA study, the network
of diagnostic centers may be modified through the second phase of the
proposed project.
(a) Infectious Diseases and Epidemiology: (i) classifying and
characterizing all main infectious and contagious diseases; and
(ii) preparing control programs to cover 50% of livestock producers
by 1990;
(b) Parasitology and Entomology: (i) classifying endo- and
ectoparasites according to their economic importance and ecosystem;
(ii) reducing annual preventive treatments for cattle ticks from
16 to six for half the herds that are treated; and (iii)
increasing the level of control of endoparasites from 25% to 50% of
young cattle.
(c) Pathology and Toxicology: (i) classifying and evaluating the
incidence of cattle diseases and the occurrence of toxic effects of
plants and agrochemicals; and (ii) raising from 30% to 50% the
number of livestock producers with satisfactory programs of disease
control; and
(d) Vesicular Diseases: characterizing and controlling foot and mouth
disease and vesicular stomatitis of cattle at about 70% of the
known foci of infection;
E. Agricultural Engineering
5.15      A substantial increase is planned for research to be carried out by
the following work units, which would pay special attention to the needs of
small-scale farmers on steep hillsides and the general requirements for
conserving soil, water and energy.
(a) Land and Water Resources: (i) determining irrigation timing,
frequency and amounts; (ii) identifying underground and surface
water sources; and (iii) developing application systems to
economize water and energy; and to minimize soil erosion;
(b) Agricultural Processes: (i) reducing post-harvest losses; (ii)
small-scale on-farm crop storage units; and (iii) crop drying and
processing, using non-traditional sources of energy; and
(c) Agricultural Machinery: in collaboration with local universities
and manufacturers of farm machinery (i) testing and adapting
agricultural machinery and equipment, particularly for use by
small-scale farmers; (ii) seeking energy-efficient machinery
suited to local conditions; and (iii) improving the technical and
economic efficiency of cultivation on small, steep farms.



- 38 -
F. Technical Supporting Services
Statistics and Biometry
5.16       Staff of this headquarters division would be encouraged to visit
research centers and stations regularly (a) to gain first hand understanding
of conditions in the field; (b) to advise on the design and analysis of
experiments; (c) to train research staff in elementary biometry and the uof
microcomputers; and (d) to ensure that cost:benefit criteria are included
within research considerations.
Socio-economic Studies
5.17       High priority would be given to increasing the understanding of
research workers concerning the socio-economic conditions in the agricultural
sector and farm management issues and agricultural economic considerations
applicable to farms of different scales. This would be done by (a) reviewing
farming conditions and problems through PLANTRA and other studies; (b)
taking part in the design and analysis of research projects; and (c)
assisting in the transformation of the results of research into practical
recommendations.
Library and Communications
5.18       Reference facilities would be provided at the national and regional
levels to give research workers access to national, regional and
international scientific and technical publications. This would include use
of the AGRIMTER and AGRIS document abstracting services. The Communications
Division, in conjunction with the Socio-economics Division, would (a) develop
improved methods of communication between the farming community to research
workers; and (b) test alternative methods for communicating technical
recommendations and transferring improved animal and plant material to farms
of different scales of operation.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS
6.01       Benefits from public investment in agricultural research have been
estimated ex-post for investigations of six crops for varying periods between
1934 and 1974 (Annex 3). As may be seen below, the economic rates of return
for research in Colombia were generally highly satisfactory, but only
marginal for wheat and zero for cotton research. For wheat and cotton most
of the benefits were from foreign research, while local research efforts were
not sufficiently focussed to produce useful results.
Product        Period of Research                Economic Rate of Return %
Best Estimate         Range
Cotton                   1934-74                       0
Oil Palm                 1960-73                      31
Potatoes                 1949-75                      63              44 to 78
Rice                     1957-72                                      60 to 82
Soybeans                 1960-72                                      79 to 96
Wheat                    1953-73                                      11 to 12



- 39 -
On the basis of this evidence and experience in many other parts of the
world, investment in agricultural research usually yields a high rate of
return, but regular technical and economic reviews are essential to avoid
wasting resources on unrewarding lines of investigation.
6.02      The average national yields of most crops in Colombia increased
steadily and, in some cases, substantially, between 1970-82. Annual average
yields for IR crops during this period are given in Table 14. In general it
appears that in this period yield increases at the national level were less
impressive than during the periods referred to in paragraph 6.01. The
increases were the result of (a) improved planting material and farming
practices; (b) shifts in areas of production to more favorable areas; and
(c) changes in the characteristics of the crop, for example, from mainly
rainfed and upland rice to mainly paddy-rice production. ICA played a key
role in each of these types of change, but it is not possible to quantify
this in financial or economic terms.
6.03      Despite the undoubted technical improvements made possible for many
crops through successful research, the production of some of these crops
(maize, beans and sesame) in terms of the domestic resource cost was not
attractive in 1981 at the average levels of yield obtained on farms (1.4 m
ton/ha). However, there is a wide range between the average yields on
research stations and commercial yields because of inefficiencies in the
national systems for the transference of technology and improved genetic
material.
6.04      The benefits from livestock research by ICA have also been
considerable, but there has been no attempt to estimate these in economic
terms. The principal achievements have been the incorporation of "criollo"
germ plasm into zebu cattle stocks; the introduction and propagation of
improved grasses and legumes; and the development of stock-feed rations
based on locally available constituents. The veterinary research work of ICA
has achieved some success in containing the spread of foot and mouth disease
of cattle and in estimating the occurrence and distribution of the main
diseases of livestock. According to recent estimates of the economic losses
in 1981 from all diseases of livestock, these totalled 1JS$917 million.
6.05      The proposed project should have a direct effect on the main
technical problems of the agricultural sector through:
(a) providing the policy framework, institutional system and well
trained staff with adequate facilities and operating funds to carry
out well designed and conducted research (para 3.03);
(b) establishing the infrastructure and coordination system to
implement research contracted and financed by the private sector
(paras 2.21 and 2.23);
(c) attention to food crops, rainfed agriculture and the socio-economic
analysis of research results and farming systems (paras 3.04 and
5.17);
(d) reinforcing and using all available channels of communication
between farmers and research workers (para 4.04');



- 40 -
(e) preparing a strategy and a plan of action for the reorganization
and strengthening of public and private farm advisory and
communication systems to make full use of the results of research
and to influence the directions of future studies (para 3.14);
(f) eliminating the environmental hazard represented by the existing
veterinary medical research laboratory (LIMV) in Bogota (para
3.08);
(g) reducing losses from livestock diseases (para 5.14);
(h) making full use of the existing research staff and infrastructure
(para 3.17); and
(i) recalling former research workers who left ICA because of lack of
support and insufficient remuneration (para 3.16).
6.06      The main risks that would be faced by the proposed project are the
following:
(a) it might not be possible to rehire experienced former ICA research
staff as fast as planned unless the scientific premium is approved
promptly. In addition, existing research staff may leave ICA if
there is much delay in improving the gross salary for senior
research staff; any delay might seriously postpone benefits from
the project;
(b) although the present national administration is strongly committed
to supporting and financing agricultural research, a future
administration might be reluctant to continue to provide the
necessary support; and
(c) the rehabilitation of the national network of extension services
might not be undertaken, despite the preparation of PLANTRA, in
which case the benefits from the rehabilitation of the national
research service would not be effectively exploited.
6.07      The legal and political feasibility of providing a scientific
premium for research staff were determined during negotiations. The
assurance of future funding for research would depend on the effectiveness
with which the proposed project responds successfully to the needs of
farmers. The careful attention to their problems, which is an essential
feature of the institutional reformation of ICA, should ensure that research
is well focussed. With the competent staff already in ICA and the additional
staff facilities and funds to be provided by the project, there are excellent
prospects for generating significant research results which would themselves
provide the main justification for future administrations and the private
sector to support strongly the agricultural research and extension services
of Colombia, and this would ensure continuity in the support for the research
program.



- 41 -
VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS OBTAINED AT
NFGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that the
following conditions would be fulfilled:
(a)   the study referred to in paragraph 3.14 would be carried out and
reviewed by the Bank as outlined in that paragraph;
(b)   the project would be financed as specified in paragraphs 3.19,and
3.20 and 3.31;
(c)   procurement procedures would be in accordance with paragraphs 3.10
and 3.21 to 3.25;
(d)   the reorganization of ICA would be carried out according to the
program in paragraph 4.03;
(e)   by no later than December 31, 1983, ICA would present to the Bank
for approval detailed proposals for the constitution and operations
of research consultative committees (para 4.04 (a));
(f)   annual research review procedures would be in operation at all
research stations of ICA no later than December 31, 1984 (para
4.04 (b));
(g)   the lines of control and transmission of funds would be consistent
with the proposals in paragraph 4.06;
(h)   accounting and auditing procedures would be as specified in
paragraphs 4.14 and 4.15; and
(i)   monitoring and reporting would be in accordance with the procedures
in paragraphs 4.16 to 4.18.
7.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness that a special account for
the working fund had been established by ICA (para 3.28).
7.03      It would be conditions of disbursement under the respectives
categories, that ICA had submitted a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank,
for (a) local and foreign training; and (b) ICA had prepared a comprehensive
justification for the establishment of the new research station (para 3.12
and 3.06 respectively); and the Government had ordered the release of its
initial contribution to the special account (para 3.28).
7.04      With these  assurances obtained at negotiations, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for a loan to ICA, with the
guarantee of the Government, for the equivalent of USS63.4 million. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at a variable
interest rate linked to the borrowing costs of the Bank.
May 12, 1983.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Terms of Reference for Consultant Services and Studies
A. Consultant Services
General Observations
All consultants would require appropriate qualifications, usually
at the Ph.D or equivalent level, with about ten years of practical experience
in their fields of specialization; preferably this experience should include
work in developing countries. Fluency in Spanish is essential and a
reasonable command of English would be useful. Consultants would work under
the overall supervision of the Project Coordinator of ICA, but be assigned to
the relevant division for their specific tasks. During the assignment the
consultants may be required to work in any part of Colombia. Prior to the
arrival of the consultant the receiving division will prepare a briefing
folder containing all material relevant to the consultancy. Within one week
of arrival each consultant would submit a detailed proposed work program. At
the mid-point of each contract the consultant would submit a progress report
to the Project Coordinator, and at the end of the contract term, each
consultant would submit a final report on the consultancy. A critical
element of all consultancies would be to train staff of ICA and some
consultants may be required to assist the graduate training program at the
National University.



- 43 -
Consultants Required
Division: Agronomy
Position Title: Vegetables; Production Expert
Duration: 12 months
Qualifications: PhD or equivalent in a discipline related to horticulture,
with specialization in seed physiology and production. Extensive field
experience in the production and quality control of horticultural seeds.
Position Description: Advise on the strategy for the development of a local
seed production operation for selected horticultural crops.
Advise on the design and staffing of a horticultural
seeds quality control laboratory.
Division: Veterinary Sciences
Position Title: Laboratory Design Expert
Duration: 3 months
Qualifications: Experience in the design and mangement of microbiological
laboratories, biological safety, air handling and effluent disposal
systems.
Position Description: Advise on (a) design criteria and detailed
specifications for studies of vesicular and infectious diseases and
epidemiology at LIMV (Bogota); and (b) modifications to the facilities at
LIVET (Turipana, Monteria) to provide cell culture supply, media
production and virology work areas and improve distilled water supply and
glass sterilization facilities.
Division: Veterinary Sciences
Position Title: Infectious Diseases; Epidemiology Fxpert
Duration: 15 months
Qualifications: PhD or equivalent in veterinary medicine with
specialization in the economic evaluation of preventive measures to reduce
the incidence of livestock diseases.
Position Description: Advise on criteria and data management systems for
epidemiological and economic evaluations of livestock diseases.
Assist in the organization and delivery of graduate
courses on preventive medicine practices for livestock.



- 44 -
Division: Veterinary Sciences
Position Title: Tick Epidemiology Expert
Duration: 3 months in 1984/85
Qualifications: PhD or equivalent in veterinary medicine or entomology with
specialization in ectoparisites of cattle.
Position Description: Advise on the design of studies for the control of
ticks, with particular reference to the relation between knowledge of life
cycles and the use of acaricides. Train local veterinary staff in recent
advances in the control of ticks of cattle.
* *** **
Division: Agricultural Engineering
Position Title: Land and Water Expert
Duration: 24 months total
Qualifications: PhD or MS in soil and water sciences with specialization
and extensive practical experience in (a) irrigation engineering,
particularly localized and sprinkler applications; (b) drainage and
levelling tropical soils; and (c) groundwater hydrology and well
development.
Position Description: The expert would evaluate ongoing research programs
and advise on future investigations with particular reference to
evaluating the financially and economically most efficient use of water
resources in the following subjects:
(a) Irrigation: research and development of the use of localized (drip)
and sprinkler application techniques;
(b) Drainage: research and development of methods for surface
drainage under tropical high intensity rainfall; distribution of
rainfall and irrigation water over cultivated land; and
(c) Groundwater Hydrology: well testing and development, with
particular attention to practical training of local staff.



- 45 -
Division: Agricultural Engineering
Position Title: Agricultural Processing Expert
Duration: 24 months
Qualifications: MS in mechanical or chemical engineering with
specialization in heat transfer systems.
Position Description: Advise on research leading to more efficient
evaporation of sugarcane juice to produce non-centrifuged sugar (panela)
using agricultural wastes as the energy source.
Division: Project Coordinating Unit
Position Title: Advisor (1)
Duration: 30 months
Qualifications: PhD, MS or equivalent qualifications in relevant
disciplines with appropriate practical experience.
Position Description
Monitoring and Evaluation; (6 months). Advise on systems (i) to monitor
the physical and financial development of the project; (ii) to prepare
periodic progress reports; and (iii) to evaluate the results and
consequences of research programs.
Division: Statistics and Biometry
Position Title: Computer Expert
Duration: 9 months
Qualifications: Professional qualifications relevant to the design and
installation of a computer center for biological research and management
information.
Position Description: Advise on (a) the formation of a computer center to
process scientific and administrative data from regional and national
agricultural research stations; and (b) the procurement of the necessary
hardware, software and associated facilities.



- 46 -
Division: Socio-economic Studies
Position Title: Agricultural Economist (1)
Duration: 15 months total
Qualifications: PhD or equivalent in relevant fields with specialization
in:
(a) economic analysis of hilogical research (12 months); and
(b) production economics (3 months).
Position Description: Both consultants would (a) evaluate ongoing work of
the division; (b) advise on improved work planning and execution; (c)
train staff through seminars and short courses; and (d) assist the
interpretation of the results of the PLANTRA study.
Division: Communications
Position Title: Library Management Expert
Duration: 3 months
Qualifications: Professional qualification relevant to the management of
information systems, with extensive experience in the organization and
management of specialized libraries.
Position Description: Advise on (a) the design of a system for the
processing of library information, including inventory control and
linkages with relevant international and national information systems on
technical documents; (b) preparations for the implementation of the
system; and (c) the implementation of the system.
Division: Planning
Position Title: PLANTRA Study Advisors (3)
Duration: 24 months total
Qualifications: PhD, MS or equivalent relevant qualifications, with
experience in the design, organization, financing and management of farm
advisory services.
Position Description:
(a) General Advisor: (12 months). Assist in (i) the design and
analysis of a national survey of existing farm advisory systems;
(ii) the preparation of a report on the existing systems; and (iii)
the design of a framework for an improved organization for farm
advisory services;



- 47 -
(b) Agricultural Extension Expert: (3 months). Assist in (i) the
design of the most appropriate methodology for the communication of
information to and collection of experience from each main category
of farmer; and (ii) the design of a national extension system
involving many private as well as public entities; and
(c) Agricultural Economist: (6 months). Assist in (i) the design and
analysis of surveys to define dominant farming systems and
categories of farmer requiring technical assistance; and (ii) the
economic and financial analysis of alternative combinations of farm
advisory services to be recommended.
Division: Administration
Position Title: Accountancy Expert
Duration: 12 months
Qualifications: Internationally recognized accountancy qualifications, with
experience in accounting of public sector entities.
Position Description: Review existing system of accounting; design a system
to improve the presentation and flow of information to management; prepare
instructions for the improved system; and supervise the implementation of
the new system. A sample invitation to selected international accounting
consultants follows.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment A
Sample Invitation to Selected International
Accounting Consultants
1.        The Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA), with headquarters in
Bogota, has decided to approach a limited number of international accounting
firms known for their expertise in the field of the design and implementation
of administrative and accounting systems focused towards provision of
management and cost control oriented financial and cost accounting
information, capable of functioning within the framework of statutory
recording and reporting procedures and statutory audit requirements as they
now exist.
2.        It is ICA's understanding that your firm has the required
expertise. If this is so and if your firm is interested in submitting an
initial proposal, you are requested to do so not later than March, 1984.
Your proposal should he addressed as shown in the top right hand corner and
should include information indicated in the fifth paragraph of this
invitation. If your firm does not intend to respond to this invitation,
please advise ICA to that effect at your earliest convenience.
3.        ICA has applied to the World Bank for a loan to assist it with the
strengthening of its work on agricultural research and extension and the
consultancy mentioned in this Invitation would be financed with part of the
proceeds of that loan.
4.        The abbreviated Terms of Reference are:
(a) examine the existing administrative arrangements and related
accounting system in all its aspects with particular reference to
its present status of decentralization. Prepare a brief report of
findings, followed by recommendations for further work, indicating
a time frame for its execution;
(b) Prepare a preliminary design of such systems as would enhance
provision of regular financial and cost information to management
at national, regional and other selected levels, indicating the
related reporting system bases thereon;
(c) Carry out the detailed work, prepare the necessary manual(s) and
supporting stationary design, describing the books, records and
typical statements in support of the system;
(d) Supervise the implementation of the system;
(e) Completion of each of the preceding four stages will be regarded as
individual phases of the consultancy and ICA's Board approval will
be required prior to commencement of the next succeeding phase.



- 49 -
(f) Two ICA staff members with appropriate educational background and
practical experience will work with the consultants on a full time
basis;
(g) For the consultancy to succeed in its objectives the following
requirements are essential:
(i) the consultant must be fluent in Spanish;
(ii) have academic qualifications and experience appropriate to
intensive interaction with highly qualified staff of ICA; and
(iii) have a personality conducive to an atmosphere of close
cooperation with others and ability to impart knowledge to his
counterparts.
5.        Your proposal should initially assume an overall time requirement
of twelve man-months, with a break between some or all of the four phases.
It should briefly outline your firm's specific experience with assignments of
this nature, giving details as deemed appropriate and giving academic and
experience details of staff available for this assignment.
6.        While your proposed charges will have a bearing on the final
selection process, the cost factor will account for about 30% of the
weighting of the bid evaluation with the balance made up as follows:
10% previous achievements in similar assignments;
30% suitability of proposed individual(s);
10% commitment to supply the individual nominated;
20% general quality of proposal.
B. Studies
Preparation for a National Plan for the Transference
of Technology for Agriculture (PLANTRA)
The objective of the study would be to prepare the bases for a plan
to improve and coordinate all forms of technical assistance for the
agricultural sector of Colombia. The study would set out to:
(a) identify dominant systems of crop and animal production in the
principal farming regions of the country;
(b) define the dominant categories of producer and the ecological and
financial circumstances of each such category;
(c) determine, with the assistance of farmers, the principal technical
problems that are amenable to research;



- 50 -
(d) identify and describe the dominant traditional and non-traditional
means of communication among all sectors of the farming communitv;
(e) provide additional views on research needs and technical assistance
requirements for areas of the country not studied under the PLANIA
or the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP). Also,
determine if it is advisable to modify any of the strategies
developed for agricultural research in the preparation of PLANIA;
(f) propose alternative methodologies to provide technical assistance
to all dominant farming systems in Colombia, through public or
private agencies including on-farm adaptive research and
verification trials as well as field demonstrations;
(g) provide a working plan for the improvement of technical assistance
and suggest an organization and its location within the Colombian
public sector to oversee the improvement of technical assistance to
the agricultural sector;
(h) advise on training programs to familiarize research workers with
farm conditions and extension agents with methods and disciplines
of agricultural investigations.
(i) recommend a system for improving coordination between extension
activities and other complementary services and inputs including
credit, farm supplies, veterinary diagnostic and soils conservation
services.
May 12, 1983.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Audit Requirements
1.        Separate project accounts would be kept by ICA, which would ensure
that they were submitted in due time to the external auditor.
2.        ICA would submit the following information on the project accounts
to the external auditor each year:
(a) as a minimum, a statement of sources and application of funds,
with comments on the most significant changes with respect to
the previous year;
(b) a report on the system of internal control;
(c) a report on the corrective actions taken in response to the
opinions and recommendations made by the external auditor in
the report of the previous period;
(d) a report by ICA with comments regarding the time intervals
between the date of the expenditures, approval of the
disbursements by the Bank, disbursements and receipt of funds
by ICA;
(e) a report showing and analyzing budget execution during the
year, compared with initial appropriations and budget
execution during the previous years; and
(f) all documentation supporting the statements of expenditures.
3.        ICA would present such financial and complementary information to
the external auditor no later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year.
Immediately upon receipt of the external auditor's report, the agencies would
forward a copy to ICA.
Content of the External Audit Reports
4.        The auditor's report should give the project account amounts and
express an opinion on the fairness with which they are presented. The
auditor would also report on:
(a) compliance by the Government with its obligations under the
Guarantee Agreement;
(b) compliance by ICA with its obligations under the Loan
Agreement;



- 52 -
(c) the system of internal control and the reliability of any
statements of expenditure;
(d) corrective measures taken by ICA in response to observations
and recommendations made in the previous report;
(e) the adequacy of the reserve or provision for doubtful debts
and changes in the provision or reserve;
(f) the accounting system used; and
(g) compliance with procurement regulations.
5.        Not later than six months after the close of its fiscal year, ICA
would present to the Bank the result of an audit of the statements of
expenditures carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
This audit report would convey the auditors' opinion and comments on the
methodology employed in the compilation of the statements of expenditure,
their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for
financing and the standard of record keeping and internal control.
May 12, 1983



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Project Performance Audit Reports
Report No.        Board                       Title
Document No.
1841           SecM78-15       Atlantico Irrigation (Loan 502-CO)
2124          SecM78-556       Caqueta Land Colonization (Loan 739-CO)
1804           SecM77-828      First Agricultural Credit (Loan 624-CO)
1344          SecM76-745       Second Livestock Development (Loan 651-CO)
3959           SecM82          Atlantico Irrigation (Loan 502-CO): Impact
Evaluation Report.
-                 -           Strengthening Agricultural Research and
Extension - The World Bank Experience.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Preparatory Colombian Studies and Reports (in order of publication).
ARNDT, T. M., DALRYMPLE, D.G. and RUTTAN, V.W., 1977. Resource
Allocation and Productivity in National and International Research,
University of Minnesota Press, p. 86-123.
HERTFORD, R., ARDILA, J., ROCHA and TRUJILLO, C., Productivity of
Agricultural Research in Colombia.
ARAGON, T.J. and FORERO, L.F., 1976, Estudio Socio-economico de las
Inversiones Realizadas en Investigacion y Fomento de la Palma Africana
de Aceite en Colombia. Revista ICA XI (3), 243-256.
PENA, M., 1976, Evaluacion socio-economica de las Inversiones Estatales
en la Investigacion sobre el Cultivo de la Papa. ICA, Boletin de
Investigacion No. 45.
SCOBIE, G. and POSADA, R., 1977, The Impact of High Yielding Rice
Varieties in Latin America with Special Emphasis on Colombia, CIAT, p.
p. 78.
IICA, 1978. Asignacion de prioridades y recursos a la investigacion
agropecuaria en Colombia. Seminario organizado por la Unidad de
Estudios Agrarios del Departamento Nacional de Planeacion con la
colaboracion del Proyecto Cooperativo de Investigacion sobre Tecnologia
Agropecuaria en America Latina (PROTAAL). CIAT, Palmira (Serie:
Informe de Conferencia, Cursos y Reuniones No. 153).



- 54 -
DNP, 1979. Propuesta para la estructuracion del sistema de
investigacion y transferencia de tecnologia agropecuaria y de recursos
naturales renovables de Colombia, Bogota.
ICA, 1980. Sector Agropecuario Colombiano: Diagnostico Tecnologico.
Tomos 1 y 2.
DNP
Integracion Nacional 1979-82.
ICA, 1980. Plan Nacional de Investigacion Agropecuaria del ICA.
PLANIA. Tomos I, II a, b, c, y III.
ARDILA, J. 1981. Diagnostico sobre la situacion de la Investigacion
Agropecuaria en Colombia y Propuesta de Reorganizacion Institucional.
IICA-OPSA. Vols. I, II y III.
DNP, 1981. Bases para el Plan Nacional de Investigaciones del Sector
Agropecuario, Forestal y Pesquero. Documento DNP-1828-UEA.
MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA, 1981. Recomendaciones de la Subcomision de
Investigacion y Transferencia de Tecnologia. Comision Intersectorial de
Concentracion del Sector Agropecuario.
NAVAS, J., et. al, 1982. La organizacion institucional de la
investigacion agricola en Colombia y el Plan Nacional de Investigacion
Agropecuaria, Cali. Primer Seminario sobre Investigacion y Desarrollo
Tecnologico en el Sector Agropecuario Colombiano.
SAMPER, A., 1982. La funcion del Sector Privado en la organizacion y
financiamiento de la Investigacion agropecuaria en Colombia. Cali.
Primer Seminario sobre Investigacion y Desarrollo Tecnologico en el
Sector Agropecuario Colombiano.
CIAT, 1982. Seminario sobre Investigacion y Desarrollo Tecnologico en
el Sector Agropecuario Colombiano I. Conclusiones y Recomendaciones y
Plan de Accion.
ARDILA, J. Antecedentes para la creacion del sistema de investigacion
agropecuaria y la reestructuracion del ICA. Ministerio de Agricultura.
Comision de Trabajo. Resolucion 385 del 6 de septimbre de 1982.
ICA, 1982. Proyecto de Investigacion Agropecuaria de Colombia para
consideracion del Banco Mundial.
PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION, 1983. Comision sobre Politicas y Prioridades
para la Investigacion Agropecuaria y sobre la Reestructuracion del ICA.



- 55 -
C. Bank Preparatory Studies and Reports
a) Sector Missions
NESTEL, B. and WORMER, T.M., 1978. Agricultural Sub-sector Report:
Research and Extension.
Colombian Agriculture: Selected Issues and Some Directions for
Strategy. Report No. 4275-co, January 31, 1983.
b) Project Preparatory Mission Reports, August, 1982.
Working Papers
1. Potatoes
2. Vegetables
3. Fruits
4. Beans
5. Rice
6. Cassava
7. Sugarcane (panela only)
8. Cocoa
9. Plantains
10.  Soybeans
11.  Sesame
12.  Maize
13.  Sorghum
14.  Dairy Cattle
15.  Beef Cattle
16.  Cotton
17.  Poultry
18.  Wheat.
19.  Lists and quotations for civil works, equipment and vehicles
per center and per program.
c) Project Appraisal Mission
Project Working Papers
1.   The Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA):   Institutional
Framework;
2.   The Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA):  An assessment of
the Institution;
3.   Agricultural Extension;
4.   Research Design, Appraisal and Review;
5.   Training and Consultant Services;



- 56 -
6.   Crop Research, Agricultural Engineering and Seeds;
7.   Research Facilities and Support Services;
8.   Animal Production, Range and Pasture Research;
9.   Veterinary Research;
10.   Detailed Project Costs.
May 12, 1983



COLOMBIA
AC,RICTLTURAT, RESFAARCH AND FXTFENSION PROJFCT
Number of Staff in the Research Department of ICA by Levels
Year           Year 1                   Year 2                   Year 3                    Year 4                    Year 5
Levels         0       Additional   Total    Additional   Total    Additional   Total              Additional   Total    Additional   Total               Total
Incremental
Staff
PhD            31           4           35           5          40            11            51           35          R6          31           117            86
MS           162           16          178           1         179            74           253           31          284         23           307           145
BA            198         100          298         120         418           -36           384          -46          338        -4R           240            9      
Subtotal    391           120          511        126          f37            51           689           20         709           6           715           321             1
Technical
Assistants  599           245          844        138          982            42         1,074           37       1,111            5        1,116            517
Secretaries 172           101          273          29         302            14           316           17          333           0          333            161
Other      1,037          226        1,263         154       1,422            98         1,520           45       1,565           11        1,576            539
Total   2,199           692       2,891         452        3,343           255        3,598           119       3,718          22         3,740         1,540(
Source: Mission
May 12, 1983.



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Total Expenditures by the Ministry of Agriculture and ICA - 1970-81
Ministry of Agriculture                      All ICA                            ICA Research Department           Cost of   Ex-
Col$ million   Col$ million   Col$ million       Col$ million      % of   Col$ million  Col$ million   Z of All  Living  change
current        constant        current           constant      Ministry   current         constant        ICA       Index   rate
1970                    1,224.5         9,419.2           284.6          2,189.2         23.2        104.9          806.9         36.9      13.0    19.1
1971                    1,261.3         8,465.1           366.9           2,462.4        29.1        120.8          810.7         32.9      14.9    20.9
1972                    1,446.9        8,511.1            412.8          2,428.2         28.5        123.7          727.6         30.0      17.0    22.8
1973                    1,390.9         6,560.8           502.1           2,368.4        36.1        136.2          642.5         27.1      21.2    24.8
Average 1970-73        -           8,239.1            -              2,362.1                      -             746.9
1974                    2,896.8        10,768.8           575.6          2,139.8         19.9        147.4          548.0         25.6      26.9    28.6            1
1975                    1,398.2         4,410.7           711.5          2,244.5         50.9        211.6          667.5         29.7      31.7    33.0
1976                    1,376.7         3,450.4          843.5           2,114.0         61.3        240.5          602.8         28.5      39.9    36.3           c
1977                    2,762.3         5,342.9         1,018.1          1,969.2         36.9        307.1          594.0         30.2      51.7    38.0
Average 1974-77        -            5,993.2           -              2,116.9                      -             603.1
1978                    2,964.2         4,867.3        1,283.5           2,107.6         43.3        431.9          709.2         33.7      60.9    41.0
1979                    4,149.7         5,246.1         1,648.1           2,083.6        39.7        555.5          702.3         33.7      79.1    44.0
1980                    6,287.7         6,287.7        2,141.7           2,141.7         34.1        670.3          670.3         31.3    100.0    50.9
1981                    7,300.1         5,761.7         2,803.7           2,212.9         38.4       928.5          732.8         33.1    126.7    59.0
Average 1978-81        -            5,540.7           -              2,136.5                      -             703.7
1982                                                    3,452.6           2,179.7                  1,056.2          666.8         30.6    158.4    69.6
1983 (budget)                                                                                      1,401.3
Source: Mission.
May 12, 1983



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Income and Expenditure of ICA - 1978-82
1978                  1979                 1980                 1981            1982 (provisional)
Col$ million    x   Col$ million   %   Col$ million    %  Col$ million   %              Col$ million  -
Income
a.  Public Sector
Direct allocation to ICA           667.2                 807.6              1,414.4               1,474.3                 2,226.6
Transfers from others               25.3                 178.8                 20.0                126.2
IRDP and PAN                       157.3      ___9        91.6                351.5                 347.5                   707.1
Subtotal             849.8      69.4    1,078.0    67.7    1,785.9    71.7    1,948.0    74.6               2,933.7       71.0
b.  Income from ICA sales and
services                         157.7      12.9       260.5    16.4        292.2    11.7        339.5    13.0            766.0       18.5
c.  Private Sector
Cotton and tobacco cesses           10.9                  28.3                  65.1                 24.5                    40.0
Others                               4.2                   0.4                  24.8                  1.9                    47.0
FFAP                               158.2                 190.7                271.1                 257.6                   275.0
Subtotal             173.3      14.1       219.3    13.8        361.0    14.5        284.0    10.9            362.0        8.8
d.  External Funds                       44.1       3.6        34.2      2.1        51.5      2.1        41.4      1.5            71.0        1.7
Total Income       1,224.9    100.0    1,592.0   100.0    2,490.6   100.0    2,612.9   100.0                4,132.7      100.00          I
'0
Expenditure
a.  Personal Expenditures
Salaries                           499.6                 612.9                771.5              1,020.4
Other emoluments                   288.8                 379.9                480.9                 648.7
Transfers                          120.8       _         182.1       _        198.9                 279.4
Subtotal                909.2      70.8    1,174.9    71.3    1,451.3    67.8         1,948.5    69.5
b.  Operating Expenses and
Marketing                        301.6      23.5       370.0    22.5        497.6    23.2         646.7    23.1
c. Financial Changes and
Depreciation                      72.7       5.7       103.2    6.2         192.8      9.0       208.5      7.4
Total Expenditure   1,238.5    100.0    1,648.1   100.0    2,141.7   100.0    2,803.7   100.0
of which
Research Department       431.9       33.7       555.5    33.7        670.3    31.3        928.5    33.1
Expenditure Ratios
a.  Operating x of salaries                        60.4                 60.4                 64.5                 63.4
b.  Operating % of salaries
plus emoluments                             38.3                 37.3                 39.7                  38.7
c. Operating % of all personnel
expenditures                                33.2                 31.5                 34.3                  33.2
Source:  Mission.
May 12, 1983



OX~TA
ACRICJLIURA. RRAR"  AND) EXTSI03 PROJFCT I
Training ard   o,sultaot Service Reqs.ronents by Work Undts
PhD or Equiva- t level                                                     5 r       Aivent level                                 Short Coorses           Coosiiltwts
IC& D1EP0ARTCEP=  DOUInSON                        WC  UIT             FPisting             ie.         Total at the         To he traited            Painting          Total at the      Tn rolomhia            Overseas
erd of Project          (overseas)                             erd of P-olet
lnwlemenoation                                                 Tmple,eotation                                               Staff
______________________________________                                 16..             Ph.              No._           6No.  rn-nth                 ND.         _      No.          No.    rnnn-Vth    N6.  nwr-ronth           14).    tronth          No. wr-snonth
RESEARCHI
Maite and irghm                 1                4              5                 2      72                   0                 12            6         144         0         0           2           4            0       0
Rice                            l                2              3                 1      36                   2                  5            1          24         5       120           6          12            0       0
Mtnor Cereals                   1                2               3                2      72                   4                  5            2          48         0         0           0           0            0       0
Orait Legmes                    0                2              2                 2      72                   3                  7            9         216         0         0           0           0            0       0
Cotton                          0                1               1                1      36                   2                  6            4          96         0         0           0           0            0       0
PerenSal Otl Crops              0                2              2                 1       36                  3                  7            4          96         1        24           2           4            0       0
Pnot amd 3ber crop.             I                l               2                l      36                   4                  7            4          16        3        72           4           R            0       n
Plantainsaanm laanas            0                1               1                1      36                   3                  7            2          49         2        48           4           8            0       0
S.arcane (panela)               0                1              1                 1      36                   2                  3            2          48         0         0           3           6            0       0
Tobbcco                         0                1               1                1       36                  0                  3            2          48         0         0           4           8            0       0
Cocoa                           0                2              2                 1      36                   5                  7            l          24         2        48           3           6            0       0
Vegetables                      I                l               4                0       0                   4                  4            2          48                   0           4           R            1      12
PAtts                           0                3              3                 1      34                   l                 to            2          48         S       120          15          30            1      24
AssocIAted and lietiple
Cropping                      1                2              3                 0       0                   '                  o            2          48         3        72           4           8            n       0
Plm2t Pathology                 2                1               3                1      36                   6                  6            1          24         2        48           5          IO            0       0
Plbt Fnttsolok7                 3                2               5                1      36                   6                 10            2          48         2        48           5          10            0)      O
Plant Physiology                2                1               3                1      36                   5                  6            0           0         4        96          13          26            0       0
Sotl ctence                    2                2              4                 2      72                   7                 12            2          48         1        24           0           0            0       0                0
Plant Breedieg                  2                1              3                 1      36                   2                  4            0           0         3        72           4           8            0       0
S,btotals:                     17               34             37                21     756                  73                174            48      1,152        33       792          78         156            2      3h
Animl Sciences
heef Cattle                     0                2              2                 2      72                   3                  4              3        72         1        24           6          12            0       0
WbiryCattle                     0                2              2                 2      72                   7                  6              3        72         1        24           A          16            0       0
16AI PsrPR     .Attie           0                                A                1      36                   O                  4              5       120         0         0           6          12            0       0
Poultry                         0                1              l                 l      36                   3                  4              3        72         1        24           3           6            0       0
Anlal Phystolog                 1                5              6                 5     160                   5                  3             0          0         3        72           4           6            0       0
Genetics                        1                1              2                 1       76                  0                  2              0         0         2        4R           0           0            0       0
fnlil Preldctton                1                2              3                 1      36                   0                  5             4         96         1        24           0           0            0       0
Aniel %trition                  I                3              4                 2      72                   2                                           0         0         0           6          16            0       0
Pastur    ard Forages           1                3              4                 3     IC           _        5                     __    23             72         1        24           0           0            0       0
S.btomls:                       5               20             23               I      646                  25                 35            21        504        10       240          35          70            0       0
Veterinary Sciem es
Infectious DAsaesea             2                5              7                 4     144                                    12             7        16         1        24           6          12            1      IS
Plrasitology                    1                1               2                1       36                  3                  6              l        72         1        24           4           a             1      1
Pathology                       1                3              4                 3     1M                    7                  q             3         72         1        24          10          203           1       I
Vesicular 3tseaes               0                3              3                 2      72                   6                  7              1        24         I        24           6          12            0       O
Subtotdls:                      4               I2             16 ii             !n     360                                     1          ?  14 116                                 4Z



AMnaiLTEAL  MAmRa  AMI E!2IIN FW1JEM I
Traning and Caceultent Serd. rFt B rmwty b 14hk Dlt
19h or  Meat Inal                                                  M  or Equiyalent Level                           Short  Te             CItanta
ICM  FA&Rn    DIVISNt                        Mm   NIT             dstieg           Mm                           lbt   t te  l be trainBd  wStte"      lotal at the    T. Colba             Overseas
nd of Poject         (overea)                           end of PTohet
T71wcatiee                                              pl_entatioe                                            Staff
ND.             ND.          NO.      I      b. man-foth              No.       I      h.         NO.   mi-mth    No.  r-th              No.          th        No. -,O
(Qior.)
AgricutuSm Enierg
ls  nd  Wter                0              2            2               2      72                 5              11           0          0       8      192         10         20           1    24
4aiolturn. 1Poca.es         0              1             1              1      36                 2               4           0          0        3      72          8         16           1    24
rra1tuwlral Mthwy            Q              1            1               1      36                 0               5           0          0        5     120         13         26           0     0
AiAd  7renoit at
0tes adStatito            0               0            0               0       0                 0              10           0          0       7      168          0          0          0      0
Subttals:                   0               4            4               4    144                  7              30           0          0      23      552         31         62           2    48
hdLstratics                 0              1             1              0       0                 0               2           1         24        1      24          2          4           0      0
Pam Pasoureas              0               0            0               0       0                 0               0           0          0        0       0          0          0           0      0
!mitoradg ad Evl
tion                      0              2             2              2      72                 0               2           1         24        1      24          3          6           1      6
PLAn                                                       0               0            0               0      0                  0               4           2         48       2       48          9         18          0      0
2              2            4               2      72                 6               6           2         48        1      24          2          4           1    24
sutotal:                      2               5            7               4    144                  6              14           6        144        5     120         16         32           2    30
Statistics and B1Dmtqy
Statiatical Methdd           2              2            4               2      72                 1               3          0           0        3      72          5         10           0      0
nDta Pcan ig                 0              1            1               1      36                 0                2         0           0        2       48        15         30           1      9               1
s&btotals:                   2              3             5              3    IC8                  1                5         0           0        5      120        20         40           1      9
Soatc Stutt
Agr-eowmm. AStudies            0               3            3               1      36                 4               9           3         72        3      72          7         14           1      3
Pro&ati  Sytem                 0               2            2               2     72                  5              11           4        96        4       96          2         14           1    12
Sj,totals:                   0              5             5              3    1(8                  9               20          7        168        7      168         9         i8           2    15
Mbdi PrO&Wtien                  1              0            1               0       0                 5               9           2         48        2       48         0          0           0      0
0amcatIe       TeTla oly       0               1            1               1      36                 4               8           0          0        3      72          5         10           0      0
UbLry                          a               I            I               1      36                 1               4           0          0        3       72         0          0           1      3
Sulhtals:                       1              2            3               2      72                10              21           2         48        8      192         5         10           1      3
AUNIhSnAItN
Deprtent Diractor              0               1             1              1      36                 1               0           0          0        0       0          0          0           0      0
Lgal                           0               0            0               0       0                 0                1          0          0        1       24         2          4           0      0
OPqetiat                       0               0            0               0      0                  1               4           4         96        0       0          2          4           0      0
Se         (A rqmt-c)          0               0            0               0      0                  2                5          0          0        3       72         4          8           1    12
Geetal Servef                  0               0            0               0       0                 1                1          0          0        0       0          7         14           0      0
Perstaml                       0               0            0               0       0                 0               2           1         24        1       24        11         22           0      0
cetwtio.                       0               0            0               0       0                 1                2          1         24        0       0          1          2           0      0
Vehicld                        0               0            0               0       0                 0               0           0          0        0        0          3         6           0      0
SuItotals                    0              1             1              1      36                 6               15          A        144        s      120         30        60           1    12
OlRAI TOTALS                31             86           117             66   2,376               162              307         104     2,496      100   2,4C0         250        500         14   174              '
Smaxe:  Anion.
May 12, 1983



- 62 -
COLOMBIA                               Table 5
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Summary of Training and Consultant Services
PhD                      MS               Short-courses
Before       At         Before       At                               Consultant
Project  Conclusion   Project  Conclusion                               Services
No.         No.          No.        No.                 No.        No. man-month
RESEARCH
Agronomy                        14          34           76         140                              3    36
Animal Sciences                   5         20           24          40                              1    12
Veterinary Sciences              4          14           24          30                              1    12
Agricultural Engineering         0           4             6          30                             3    36
Statistics and Biometry          2           5            1           5                              1    12
Subtotal:                25          77          131         245                             9   108
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Socioeconomic Studies            0           1            9          20                              1    24
Communications                   1           1           10          20                              1    12
.Subtotal:                1           2           19          40                              2    36
PLANNING                             2           6            6          10                             2    18
ADMINISTRATION                       3           1            6          12                             1    12
TOTALS:                  31          86          162         307                250         14   174
TRAINING/CONSULTANCY
a) Local
man-year                                                208                                          2
US$'000/man-year                                            8.4                                       37.0
Subtotal US$'000                                        1,747                                         74.0
b) Foreign
man-year                      198                       200                                         12.5
US$'000/man-year                 21.6                       17.1                                      74.0
Subtotal US$'000              4,277                     3,420                                        925.0
Total persons                  66                       204                 250               14    -
man-years                 198                       408                  40.6                   14.5
US$'000              4,277                      5,167                390.0                  999.0
Source-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .          .
Source: Mission
May 12, 1983



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Annual Cost of Scientific Premia
40% of Average Basic Salary
Year 1            Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5        Total
Level               No.  Col$'000   No.    Col'000   No.   Col$'000  No.  Col$'000   No.   Col$'000 Col$' 000
PhD     No.        35               40                51               87              117
Col$'000             17,150             19,600           24,990          42,630            57,330  162,000
MS      No.       178              179               253              284              307
Col$'000             67,462             67,841           95,887         107,636           116,353  455,179
Totals: No.       213              219               304              371              426
Col$'000            84,612              87,441          120,887         150,266           174,663  617,179            E
Source:  Mission.
May 12, 1983
c-
a'



- 64 -
COLOMBIA                            Table 7
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Annual Personnel Costs and General Costs
Year                                 1              2             3                 4               5           Total
No. Col$'000  No. Col$'000 No. Col$'OO0  No.   Col$'O00  No.  Col$'OOO   Col$'000
Personnel Costs
Research Department
PhD          No.               4             9             20             55              86
Col$'000                 6,000         13,500         30,000          82,500          250,670     382,670
MS            No.             16            17             91            122             145
Col$'000                18,560         19,720        105,560         141,520          168,200     453,560
BA           No.             100           220            186            140              92
Col$'000                66,000        145,200        122,760          92,400           60,720     487,080
Technical Assistants
No.            245           383            475            512             517
Col$'000                91,875        143,625        178,125         192,000         193,875      799,500
Secretarial       No.            101           130            144            161             161
Col$.000                30,906         39,780         44,064           49,266          49,266     213,282
Other           No.            226           385            483            528             539
Col$'000                43.166        73,535         92,253           100,848         102,949     412,751
Subtotal:    No.            692         1,144          1,399          1,518            1,540
Col$'000               256,507        435,360        572,762         658,534         825,680   2,748,843
Planning and Administration
a) Project Coordinating
Unit
Professional  No.               6             6              6              6               6
Col$'000                 6,000          6,000          6,000            6,000           6,000      30,000
Auxiliary     No.               6             6              6              6               6
Col$'000                 2,400          2,400           2,400           2,400           2,400       12,000
b) Administration
Professional  No.              30            66             67             67              67
Col$'000                30,000         66,000         67,000          67,000           67,000     297,000
Auxiliary     No.              73          118             151            151             151
Col$'000                29,200         47,200         60,400          60,400           60,400     257,600
Subtotal:    No.             115          196            230             230             230
Col$'000                67,600        121,600        135,800         135,800          135,800     596,600
Total Incremental
Personnel Costs: No.             807         1,340          1,629          1,748           1,770
Col$'000               324,107        556,960        708,562         794,334         961,480   3,345,443
General Costs (Col$ million)
20% of Year 0  Research               168.1          168.0          168.1           168.1            168.1       840.4
Department Gross Personnel Costs
40% of All Incremental                130.0          223.0          283.4           318.0            384.59    1,338.2
Personnel Costs
Total General Costs             298.1          391.0          451.5           486.1           553.0      2,179.0
Source: Mission.
May 12, 1983



- 65 -                             Table 8
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Annual Training and Consultant Service Costs
(US$'000)
Project Year                      1        2        3       4        5        6     Total
Training
PhD - Foreign               340       835   1,250   1,131       505    214    4,277
MS  - Foreign               543    1,160      890      537      290            3,420
MS  - In Colombia           190       387     390      390      390            1,747
Short Course - In Colombia 82         110     110       55       33              390
Total:             1,155    2,495   2,640   2,113   1,218    214    9,834
Of which Foreign: 1,311    2,676   2,598   2,076         990    181    9,832
In Colombia:
US$'000:      272       497     500      445      423     -      2,137
Col$'000;  18,931   34.591  34,800  30,972  29,441              148,735
Consultant Services
Local:
US$'000               40       40                                 80
Col$'000            2,784   2,784                               5,568
Foreign:
US$'000    309       255      265      110     101      -      1,040
Total:  Col$'000  21,506   17,748  18,444   7,656   7,030          0    72,384
US$'000      309      255      265      110     101      0      1,040
Source: Mission.
May 12, 1983



- 66 -                              Table 9
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Annual Project Investment Cost by Category
(Col$ '000)
Project Year          1           2         3        4        5        TOTAL
Civil Works        177,469    183,718   29,162   11,249   2,302    403,900
Equipment and
Furniture
Farm             149,400    173,273   85,585   36,745   3,215    448,218
Office            51,386     23,002    9,538    1,565   1,690        87,181
Laboratory       177,271    251,685  110,680   30,203   4,863    574,702
Other             85,678     63,257   11,235   12,049   4,423    176,642
Subtotal      460,735    509,217  216,038   80,562  14,191  1,294,500
Vehicles         297,919    223,558   93,421   25,039   7,374    577,700
Livestock          5,635       8,050   15,703    4,450   3,800       48,700
Station
Development    16,763    105,303  103,989   70,237  20,580    403,700
Total       961,341  1,033,735  461,203  193,608  48,247  3,132,000
Source: Mission
May 12, 1983



- 67 -                              Table 10
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Procurement Method
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method             Total
ICB    LCB    Other        Not         Cost
Project Element                                            Applicable   (Incl.
contin-
gencies)
Civil Works                                  8.4       1.0                   9.4
(8.4)    (1.0)                 (9.4)
Equipment and Furniture              14.1   14.0                            28.1
(8.4)  (8.3)                          (16.7)
Vehicles                             12.0                                   12.0
(7.3)                                  (7.3)
Livestock                                               1.0                   1.0
(0.0)                (0.0)
Research Farm and Laboratory Dev.           15.8                            15.8
(7.5)                          (7.5)
Consultants Services                                   1.0                   1.0
(1.0)                (1.0)
Training                                              14.6                  14.6
(9.2)                (9.2)
Studies                                                           1.4        1.4
(0.4)     (0.4)
Incremental Operating Costs                                     122.3      122.3
(5.7)     (5.7)
Working Fund                                                      1.0         1.0
(0.5)      (0.5)
TOTAL:                     26.1   38.2      17.6      124.7      206.6
(15.7) (24.2)   (11.2)    (12.1)    (63.2)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Loan.
Source: Mission
May 12, 1983



- 68 -                          Table 11
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Year from date of              Standard Disbursement        Appraisal Estimate
Board Approval                      Profile
(LAC:  Agriculture)
(half-year interval)                      X                    %        US$'000
1 a  December 31, 1983                   0.4                   1.1           700
b  June 30, 1984                       2.6                  4.6         2,900
2 a  December 31, 1984                   6.3                 15.4         9,800
b  June 30, 1985                      11.4                 31.9        20,200
3 a  December 31, 1985                  17.8                 49.6        31,400
b  June 30, 1986                     25.3                  64.4        40,800
4 a  December 31, 1986                  33.7                 76.2        48,300
b  June 30, 1987                      42.5                 84.2        53,400
5 a  December 31, 1987                  51.4                 89.9        57,000
b  June 30, 1988                      60.1                 94.2        59,700
6 a  December 31, 1988                  68.3                 97.4        61,800
b  June 30, 1989                      75.7                 99.5        63,100
7 a  December 31, 1989                  82.3                 99.8        63,300
b  June 30, 1990                     88.0                 100.0        63,400
8 a                                     92.9
b                                    96.8
9 a                                    100.0
Source: Mission
May 12, 1983



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Project Cash Flow
(Col$ million)
Project Year                        1           2           3           4           5          6           7           Total
Mid year Exchange Rate Col$/US$            82.8       96.5       111.0       126.5       144.2      164.4       187.4
Project Baseline Cost         1,946.9    2,396.6    2,365.1    1,800.5    1,337.9          15.3                   9,862.3
Contingencies
Physical                      35.0        44.1       43.4        33.2        24.9        1.1                     181.7
Price                        335.7      931.9    1,422.2    1,891.5    2,529.1           6.9                   T,117.3
Subtotal Contingencies:         370.7       976.0    1,465.6    1,924.7    2,554.0          8.0                   7,299.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST            2,317.6    3,372.6    3,830.7    3,725.2    3,891.9           23.3                 17,161.3
a'
Project Disbursement
(US$ million)a/
From Loan                       2.9        17.3       20.6        12.6         6.3        3.4         0.3           63.4
Interest Payments on
Bank Loan (10%)                 0.7         2.34        4.25        5.42        5.51       5.85        5.36          -
Commitment Charge (3/4% on
Unwithdrawn Amount)             0.4         0.3         0.2         0.08        0.03       -           -
Repayment of Principal          -           -           -          -       4,880.0   4,880.0    4,880.0
Subtotal (US$000)                 1.2         2.7         4.4         5.5        10.4       10.7        10.2
(Col$000)             115.1       256.7       490.0       695.7    1,502.6   1,764.0    1,919.0
Net Disbursement
(US$000)                1.7        14.6        16.2         7.1        (4.1)      (7.3)      (10.0)
(Col$000)             124.2    1,408.9    1,798.2         898.1      (591.2) (1,200.1)  (1,874.0)
Difference to be provided
with national funds
(Col$000)           2,193.4    1,963.7    2,032.5    2,827.1    4,483.1   1,223.4    1,874.0
(US$000)               26.5        20.3        18.3        22.3        31.1        7.4        10.0
a/ Mission Assumption: 10% average interest rate and disbursements according to Table 11.
1/ Source: Mission - only illustrative
May 12, 1983



_ 70 -                                              Table 13
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
Annual Numbers of Research Projects by Programs and Disciplines
Project Year                  0             1                 2                 3                 4              5
AGRONOMY PROGRAM
Maize and Sorghum           57           113               148                185              213           231
Rice                       21             57                67                 69              70             71
Minor Cereals               19            35                44                 50               55            59
Grain Legumes              70             93               124                145             178            189
Cotton                     37             75               100                102             102            102
Perennial Oil Crops        17             42                54                 55               55            55
Root and Tuber Crops       28             39                63                 81              96            101
Plantains
Sugarcane (panela)           3             4                 6                  6                7             7
Tobacco                    17             41                42                 49               49            51
Cocoa
Vegetables                 24             45                66                 79              90            10O
Fruit                      23             54                67                 80              83             84
Associated and
Multiple Cropping        33             49                55                 55              55             55
AGRONOMY DISCIPLINE
Plant Pathology            11             47                73                 88              96            10O
Plant Entomology           24             25                30                 32              35             35
Plant Physiology           20             40                48                 51              57             57
Soil Science               23             25                33                40               54             54
Plant Breeding              9             11                15                 15               17            17
ANIMAL SCIENCES
Beef Cattle                10             10                10                 10              10             10
Dairy Cattle                9             13                16                 16              16             16
Dual Purpose Cattle          6             7                11                 11               14            14
Poultry                      5            15                31                 48              68             83
ANIMAL DISCIPLINES
Animal Physiology           3              4                 5                  9              11             11
Animal Genetics              1             1                 1                  1                1             1
Animal Production
Systems                   3              4                10                 16              16             16
Animal Nutrition            0              3                 6                  9              13             17
Pastures and Forages        42            63                88                109             123            123
VETERINARY SCIENCES
Infectious Diseases
and Epidemiology          7              8                 8                  8               8              8
Parasitology and
Entomology               .6              6                 6                  6               6              6
Pathology and Toxicology  5                6                 6                  6                6             6
Vesicular Diseases           5             5                 5                  5                5             5
AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING
Development of Land and
Water Resources          11             18                32                 44              51             51
Agricultural Processes    3               12                22                 31              37             39
Agriculural Machinery       7             17                35                 51              56             56
STATISTICS AND BIOMETRY
Statistical Methods        16             22                25                 25              25             25
Data Processing            12             13                18                 20              27             30
SOCIOECONOMIC STUDIES
Agroeconomy                19             46                75               105              133            164
Production Systems         23             54                78                106             137            169
LIBRARY AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Comrinication Techniques 3                 9               14                 22               31             42
TOTAL:              660         1,185             1,618              1,957           2,258          2,427
Source: Mission.
May 12, 1983



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
National Average Crop Yields, 1970-82
and Average Yields on Reserch Stations
(m ton/ha)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        1982      Average Yield
(Est.)     on Res. Stat
Food and Feedgrains
1.  Maize               1.3    1.2      1.3     1.3     1.4      1.3     1.4     1.3      1.3     1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4            7.5
2.  Sorghum             2.2    2.6      2.5     2.1      2.2     2.5     2.5     2.1      2.3     2.3     2.1      2.3      2.4            5.0
3.  Rice (paddy)        2.7    3.5      3.9     4.0     4.3      4.3     4.3     4.0      4.2     4.4     4.3      4.3      4.4            7.0
4.  Wheat               1.2    1.1      1.1     1.3      1.3     1.3     1.4     1.2      1.3     1.4      1.2     1.4      1.4            3.8
5.  Barley              1.7    1.9      1.5     1.6      1.6     1.6     1.1     1.7      1.7     1.8     1.7      1.5      1.7            3.0
Grain Legumes and
Seasonal Oil Crops
6.  Beans (common)      0.58   0.59    0.62    0.61    0.64    0.7       0.7     0.6      0.6     0.7      0.7     0.8      0.8            4.5
7.  Soybeans            2.0    1.8      1.9     1.8      2.0     1.9     1.0     1.8      1.9     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0            2.8
8.  Sesame              0.7    0.7      0.7     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.6     0.5      0.6     0.6      0.5     0.6      0.6            1.0
9.  Cotton               1.4    1.5     1.7     1.3      1.6     1.4     1.4      1.3     1.0     1.5      1.6     1.7      1.7            8.5
Perennial Oil Crops
10.  Oil Palm a/         2.1    2.6      2.8     2.7      2.8     2.5     2.4     2.5      2.5     2.6      2.8     2.9      3.0             -
Root and Tuber Crops
11.  Potatoes           10.9    9.8      9.2    10.5    11.0    12.0    12.1    12.4    14.1    13.3    12.2    12.6        12.6           45.0
12.  Cassava             8.0    8.0      8.0     8.0     8.5      7.9     8.3     9.0      9.4     8.6    10.4    10.4       9.7             -
Other Crops
13.  Bananas a/         19.0   25.1    18.0    22.6    31.5    39.4    32.0    30.4    34.6    35.6    45.0    47.9         49.0             -
14.  Plantain a,'        4.3    4.7      4.8     5.1      5.1     5.3     5.4     4.8      5.5     5.4      5.4     5.5      4.5             -
15.  Sugar a/            9.7   11.6    11.3    10.3    11.9    12.8    11.3    11.2    11.9    12.0    12.8    12.2         13.7             -
16.  Panela a/ b/        2.5    2.5      2.7     2.7      2.8     4.6     4.9     4.7      4.9     4.9      5.0     5.0      5.2             -
17.  Tobacco             1.9    1.7      1.4     1.5      1.6     1.7     1.3     1.3      1.6     1.9      1.6     1.6      1.6            3.5
18.  Cocoa a/            0.40   0.39    0.38    0.40    0.40    0.35    0.54    0.47    0.51    0.5         0.5     0.6      0.6             -
a/  Yield per planted area including immature area not yet in production.
b/ Non-centrifugal sugar.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and ICA.
May 12, 1983



- 72 -
COLOMBIA
ACRItC1DDT. DRA  EISERADCH An NR   DSION PROJECT I
CO-LRNBIAN AGRICULTUStAL INSTITUTE (ICA)
ORGANIZATION CIRART
ROARD OP            --DI     --    --    --       --CT--ORS          11
f-t  .i-in         Arch.v  andAdin--                                                                                       osaT-hitr-l 
~~?a~4tsstos.J    Correspondence                                   tronlon       L Resources       Evaluation      h,
Linesnoolt         Osral                                   Odeints~~~~~~~~~~~~- B   -
ProociosPrdacto                                                          DoelpmnFLroio
=-d- i.]~~~~~~ReatnesDpaten                                                                                               eormn
[A.T   -I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~IATII                                        rgomigLgl                                                                         rota
Projeot       asd                                                     Deprtme.t.ti.rtso
Evoloatten                                                                   Contrd
Voteivay  disa  Crp  Pant         Livstok                  Csnrt              PD l                 So  o-           COeertal             Staf -hi-.
--d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~rdoto                             ReDD             Pooto                      n              Tcscl                Iooi                routo                ltOv
io.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pnres                                                        S nssoAssoteAtFo
CSop             inpcin            LrA.hLnstot                                 Ifa                   go                                        eea
pdc-tlon               anH.ootonFe                                              Inotrettoy                                    ac                 Orle
N.t -1    I'      Agrcultral           echia                   elk             Trorl                DeeiaysrtDroo
A~groo      R    t...         ro            oosoc                 apags             Aosane               ndon               Dvlpet-the                                  ogt                 rvrsu
A~~~~di..  Tibi-.  Ob-.-  S.-b.t.       ~~                          ~egsraio                       Cnrtoton              PrdutonIvOnore
C-ibb.-  T-ip...  Mtil..i.        L.   rtillrncto                             oin                 em                                         issDeer
T.1 ... P.  ~            coiv               Fodct
Gsta        Covisio                SodPo                 ed   sdRot                                                                        Oott--Cst
LIcooo   T      iCnes               dclead              Priter                                     apin                                       inPronlto
ovEotosl C.og                                                                                                                     ehn   e
Ra- oral                     Elioo   Hoiona  Snen..    s          Apiti..otadSt.                                                                                                               esg   n
irgioo  g.e eeorch    . siseatcd       Stnos                o   gOPon                                                                        ret                  esee                  aerc
Castes  Casern                                                                Dseas                                                     sod   ontro                tio
lvdnn Dioitta ihost    Proat



7e                                                                                        i2-
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND EXTENSION PROJECT I
i                                       u Notionol Research C,ante,S rtd  0Munni
P d          ,roa n    Ae  Regional Research Centers tv0mniaHUHA                                                                                            r
o l     Experimeet Stations                                                                                                     f
P-cved Trunk Roards                                                                    0 -              brim   -     / =nann:
Poved R..ds                                                                IA-rAIT.R 0                                                      1 : 
-Urpon-d Rondo
Roilroad  scoctinved
o    Infernatiosal airports
7P Paced Airports
* Unpaved Ainparts                                                  rea          nr       ea.a
Seaports
RPoe, Parts                                               iiunuga   ,                   \5dt,=
r-0                      Depatreat Snoadorils                                    i'                                                                                                                     l ;o
-  . riter-ralonir Savedor en                             ,.ui   <
aRelief mIeters                 an          roart a                               r=
t                             g    ~~~~~~~~Ab-ve 2,000        @               dHat'                               ocnb               i 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~O  55L 1 00                                        si'0 )0 a       naa4Ia  CRiang            S r r 9u,    aa\                       i    0r0y      
aXf            LAt$;S  lvr/X   ?p Ia 1iGS                              a         . it ,0 /0              a
~~RA N  M A 
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ K                        N;                                                             Sn at0  ;         ::u        r       g oaaen au n   aRej  y /f i Ww00              t     _ 
0   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.T. N  .-'--
in                               ,a                     t,                                                 \ K   o,de S<                     t i     ,       ?           Ynean.  .arainn
j E  U A 9 CtR ;Xt 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sn                                                                              Olra                      Vtinn0denkrwntnua 0E  ;]y:00RffA n l Lrn
-                                                                                    i
V    va-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~aetanao                                                             a Aa.n aa
G^;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~nS    lgn ;ta  -:    -                                         vu    $          i:   inegu    If      =r^o0;iv 5a GKt-et
I       f   r;aLOMerEg                                      S ' 00  ==-G ;  C   Soar
F~raBnon                      4           u     d                                    reu,r         an.Crna
'T. ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ nna                        ;iar?r7lrr                                ,    CiO           ~          _~ 
ECVA                                                                                                        EC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n-irn i~d
cAivun  I  rd   A4.         con    vnart    / ~        4'          \4.an                      orsnoera-
N  tIC  040~~~i.-a., y5m~~~mnrOinrnn  X~~~  Our   -   /     0    *0~o
DIva~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
iniranna7~~~    r  >5~~a  5  .pa.u               frp~~~~,        rotor Oninonan~o



