LOAN NUMBER 2303 CO
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project 1)
betveen
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO AGROPECUARIO
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2303 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      7       , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO AGROPECUARIO
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force. and effect as if they were fully set.forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account ref erred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement;
(b) "Pesos" means the currency*of the Guarantor; and
(c)  "Scientific Premia" means any salary bonus paid by the
Borrower to its professional staff under Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six'
three million four hundred thousand dollars ($63,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿-2 -
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedu'e'2 to "this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower- shall, 'for purposes of Parts
A, B, C and E of the Project, open a'Special Account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank in a bank acceptable to the
Bank. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively to pay the reasonable v costs in pesos for works and
services required to carry, out Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project.
(b) , After .the .Effective Date and upon receipt by the Bank
of: (A) evidence satisfactory to the Bank .that the Special.
Account has been established; z(B) a certified copy.of an Acuerdo-
de Gastos ordering payment. to, .or for the account of the Borrower
of an amount equivalent to not less than $500,000 (determined as
of the date of the Acuerdo) on account of the Project; and (C) an
appropriate' withdrawal -plication, the Bank 'shall' arrange for
deposit from the 'Loan Acco6unt 'into the Special Account of the
equivalent -in terms of pes6s of the pioceeds -of the Loan then
allocated to Category '(8) of t'he' allocation set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this'Agreement.
(c)   Any withdrawal'"of procP'   of the Loan'on account of
any expenditure under Category k.       or on account of local
expenditures under Categories (1)', (2), (3), (5) and (6), of said
allocation shall be made thereafter at the request of 'the Bor-
rower by a similar deposit from the Loan Account into the Special
Account, provided, however, that no such withdrawal or depbsit
shall be made unles' the Bank shall 'have 'received: (A) evidence"
satisfactory to the Bank that the amounts payable on account of
the Project under any previously issued Acuerdo de Gastos have
been paid into the Special Account; and (B) a certified copy of
an Acuerdo de Gastos ordering payment to or for the account of
the Borrower of the portion of such expenditure that shall not be
represented by' said withdrawal 'and deposit. .
(d)   Without limitation of " its- obligations' under Section
3.01 (a) of '"this Agreemeti, and subject to the' Guarantor's'
obligation to provide the appropriate funds pursuant to Section
2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) not later than 30 days after the depisit by the
Bank referred to' in paragraph (b) above, deposit


﻿in the Special Account the initial amount referred
to in that paragraph; and
(ii)  thereafter, not later than 60 days after each
. ..    deposit made by the Bank in the Special Account
.   :pursuant to paragraph (c) above, pay into such
Account the amount payable under the Acuerdo de
Gastos referred to under (B) of that paragraph in
.       respect of such deposit.
(e)   The Borrower shall request the Guarantor in a timely
manner the issuance of Acuerdos de Gastos to ensure that the
Special Account has at all times funds sufficient to allow an
efficient and diligent execution of Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project.
(f)   The-Borrower shall, by June 1 and December 1 of each
year, agree with the Guarantor and the Bank on the funding
requirements for a timely and efficient execution of Parts A, B,
C and E of the Project for the next following six-month period.
(g)  Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Bank into. the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out
of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as the
Bank shall reasonably request, showing that the payment was made
on account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required
for. Parts A,..B, C and E of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(h)  If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Special Account or (ii) was not supported by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless otherwise
determined by the Bank, prior to any further deposit in the
Special Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special Account an
amount equal to the amount of such payment not so eligible or
justified.
(i)  Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined that all further


﻿withdrawals from the Loan Account can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Loan Account under paragraph (a) of this
Section, or when the total amount remaining unwithdrawn under
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement less the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse
made by the Bank and of any special commitment entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions under
such Categories, shall have reached the equivalent of $1,000,000
whichever shall be sooner.    Withdrawal from the Loan Account of
the remaining amount of the Loan assigned under said Categories
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) shall follow such procedures as
shall be made only to the extent that the Bank shall be satisfied
by the evidence submitted in support of the applications for such
withdrawal that all payments by the Jorrower out of the Special
Account were made on account of the reasonable costs of goods or
services required for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(j)   The furnishings by the Borrower to the Bank of a
certified copy of any Acuerdo de Gastos pursuant to paragraph (b)
or (c) above, shall be deemed to be a representation by the
Borrower to the Bank that the full amount that should be covered
by such Acuerdo pursuant to paragraph (b) (B) or (c) (B) above is
included in the amount or amounts provided to the Borrower under
such Acuerdo.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred fifty-eight thousand one hundred and
five dollars ($158,105).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing-on each date specified in Section 2.09
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost"9 of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
.  per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means   (A)  outstanding
* borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.09. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-6-
Section 2.10. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and livestock research
and technology transfer practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ training and agricul-
tural research consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with prin-.
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Bc)rrower shall:
(a)  by June 30, 1984, prepare in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment, the study referred to in Part E of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;                                        0
(b) on the basis of such study and taking into considera-
tion the Bank's comments, prepare not later than December 31,
1984, a plan of action for the improvement of the Borrower's
technology transfer and extension activities, the preparation of
such plan to include the review of the Borrower's agricultural
research priorities and strategies.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1983,
establish   and   thereafter  maintain   research   consultative
committees for the Borrower's research centers and stations, in
numbers and with an organization and functions satisfactory to
the Bank.


﻿-7-
Secticn 3.05. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1984,
establish and thereafter maintain procedures, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the carrying out of periodic reviews of the Borrower's
overall agricultural research strategy and commodity research
programs.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)  jointly with the Guarantor, prepare and furnish to the
Bank, by December 31, 1983, a plan of action for the reorganiza-
tion of the Borrower with the purpose of divesting the Borrower
from any regulatory and enforcement activities;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such plan; and
(c) not later than December 31, 1984 carry out such plan.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)        The Borrower shall .cause all goods and services.
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and prc.'azement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)l shall


﻿enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any of the Borrower's
records and documents which are relevant to the Project.
(e)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank. of their
respective  obligations   under  the  Loan   Agreement  and  the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural and livestock research and technology
transfer practices and shall employ and maintain qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.


﻿-9-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with round engineering,
financial and agricultural and livestock research and technology
transfer practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
separate  accounts   adequate  to   reflect  in   accordance  w.lth
consistently maintained   appropriate accounting    practices  its
operations and financial condition and the operations and
financial condition of the Special Account, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting (i) all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of, expenditure, and
(ii) all deposits out of the proceeds of the Loan into the
Special Account.
(b)   The Borrower shall retaIn, until one, year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested, from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records..
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)   have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as


﻿-10-
so audited; (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided;
(c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements,-records,and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request; and
(d) without limitation to the. provisions of paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) above, in respect of the Special Account,
(i) for each semester starting January 1 and July 1 in
each year respectively, have such Account audited
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently   applied,  by  independent   auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than three months after the end
of each auditing period, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, including
without limitation to the foregoing a separate
opinion  by   said  auditors  as  to  whether   the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Special
Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures. were used to make payments for goods
received, or works or services were eligible for
financing under this Agreement and were used in
the carrying out of Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project; and
(iii) furnish   to the Bank (A) each month, certified
statements of the Special Account, and (B) such
other information concerning such Account and the
said certificates of expenditures and the audit
thereof as   the  Bank  shall from   time to   time,
reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (1) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
0     shall grant, aL no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other chrges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property or as security for the payment of debt incurred
for the purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1984, review
its current accounting system with a view to design a new system
to improve the presentation and flow of accounting information to
the Borrower's management.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all the necessary
actions to ensure that: (a) the funds allocated in its budget for
research programs, maintenance and operations of each of the
Borrower's research centers or stations and technology transfer
divisions are iirectly and timely made available to the corre-
sponding research center or station, or research program or
technology transfer division; and (b) a working fund in adequate
amounts shall be established and maintained for each of the
Borrower's research centers and stations to cover day-to-day
expenses.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿-12 -
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that Decrees No. 2420
and 133, dated September 19, 1968 and January 26, 1976, respec-
tively, of the Guarantor shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the Bank's opinion,
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event
specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination                             0
Section  7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within  the  meaning   of  Section  12.01  (c) of   the   General
Conditions, namely that the Special Account has been established.
Section 7.02. The date                          , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section-11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 I Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
Apartado A'reo 7984
Bogota
Colombia
Cable address:
ICA
Bogota
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
O        representatives  thereunto duly   authorized, have caused    this*
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
0
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO AGROPECUARIO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-14-,
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works               6,200,000          100%
(2) Equipment,               24,600,000          100% of foreign
materials,                                  expenditures and
agrochemicals,                              60% of local
spare parts and                             expenditures
furniture
(3) Vehicles                  6,600,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(4) Incremental               5,550,000          60% of local
operating                                   expenditures
expenses
(5) Consultants'
services:
(a) under Part A
of the Project        400,000          100%
(b) under Part B
of the Project        400,000          100%
(c) under Part E
of the Project         50,000          100%


﻿-15-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent        to be Financed
(6) Training                  8,800,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
and 60% cif local
expenditures
(.7) Scientific Premia        4,700,000           50% of local
expenditures
(8) Initial Deposit             500,000           Amount due under
in Special Account                           Section 2.03 of
this Agreement
(9) Fee                         158,105           Amount due under
Section 2.06 of
this Agreement
(10) Unallocated              5,441,895
TOTAL         63,400,000
2. .- For the purposes of this Schedule:
*   (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)  the   term   "Incremental  Operating   Expenses"   means
operating expenses incurred by the Borrower in connection with
the carrying out of the Project, excluding salaries, benefits and
related contributions.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan


﻿-16
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to- be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2), (4), (5) (a) and (5) (c), on account of payments made
for sunch expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1983;
(b) expenditures on account of Categories (6) unless the
Bank is furnished with a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
carrying out of Part C of the Project;
(c) any expenditure on account of Category (4) or .(7)
unless: (i) the. Bank is furnished with evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank, that such expenditure was made in -accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the sum of the aggre-
gate amount already disbursed under Category (4) or (7), as the
case may be, during a calendar year plus the amount to be dis-
bursed in respect to such expenditure in the same calendar year
does not exceed, during such year, the yearly. limit- for expendi-
tures to be disbursed on account of the respective Category, each
such limit to be annually determined by the Bank on a declining
basis; and
(d) any expenditure under Part A (b) of the Project, unless
the Bank is furnished with a detailed plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the carrying out of such Part of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that


﻿- 17 -
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the'estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures  set forth or    referred  to  in  this  Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,' represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
O


﻿-18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main purposes of the Project are the rehabilitation and
the improvement of the Borrower's agricultural and livestock.
research and technology transfer activities. The Project consists
of the following Parts:.
Part A:    (a) Rehabilitation and development of about 15 of
the Borrower's existing agricultural and livestock research
centers and stations 'and about two of the Borrower's existing
veterinary laboratories, including the employment of about 300
new researchers and about L,00Q. new technical support staff, for
the carrying out of. commodity    research programs and related
support, programs...
(b) .Establishment .of one new agricultural and livestoc.
research station.'                   .
Part B:   Improvement of the Borrower's management and accounting
systems and monitoring and evaluation of its agricultural and
livestock research and technology transfer activities.
Part C:   Training of about 270 of the Borrower's agricultural
and livestock research and technology transfer staff members at
the post graduate level, and prdvision of short-term courses to
about 250 of the Borrower's research and support staff members.
Part D:    Improvement of the Borrower's agricultural and live-
stock research and -transfer of technology activities through the
provision of Scientific Premia to attract and retain highly
qualified professional staff.
Part E:   A study to provide a basis for a national plan of
action aimed at improving and coordinating all forms of technical
assistance to the Colombian agricultural sector with special
emphasis on the improvement of the Borrower's technology transfer
and extension activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Anjrtization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expiessed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1988
through   March 1, 2000                    2,440,000
On September 1, 2000                            2,400,000
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿-20-
Premlums.,on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment 't-advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:.
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on. the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                          0.88
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                             1.00
before maturity


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and equipment
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Gnidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalific,tion documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the -imported goods, *or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 22
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goodp .in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate .any preference which, will' 'be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and .the, following methods and stages that will be.
followed in the evaluation and cqpparson..of bds.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A:.,.bids offering goods manufactured. in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established .to'
the. satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods' includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20% .of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other .domestic bids.
(3) Group C:.. bids offering any other goods.,
3.     In order,, to - determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection,with.,the importation, and
sales and ,similar taxes levied in connection with the sale. or
delivery, pursuant, to, the. ..bids,. of the goods. $uch lowest
evaluated,bids shall ..then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group.B is, the
lowest,,it shall be selected..for the award..    . .
4.   If, -as a result of. the, comparison under paragraph 3. above,
the lowest bid is a.bid.from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group-A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for-the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay


﻿- 23 -
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more, and contracts for goods estimated to cost, after grouping
in accordance with appropriate procurement standards, the equiva-
lent of less than $100,000 up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $3,000,000, shall be procured through .local competitive bid-
ding procedures acceptable to the Bank, with foreign bidders
having the opportunity to participate.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $150,000 or more and to all contracts for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $700,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
Oand the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents -shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the


﻿-24-
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of -such contract.
2.   With respect to each coatract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of-the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement without Contracting
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 may be carried out through the use of force account.


﻿01INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
0                       cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  N       day of 64m     198
FOR SECRETARY


