Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3288-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE
MALACCA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 29, 1982
I This document has t restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of i
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit =  Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00       = M$2.30
M$1.00        =  US$0.435
M$ 1 million  =  US$435,000
d                                   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 mile
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m)  =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)   =  35.31 cubic feet
=  1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)        =  2.2 pounds
1 ton                  =  1,000 kgs
=  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BPM    - Bank Pertanian Malaysia - Agricultural Bank of Malaysia
DID    - Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA    - Department of Agriculture
DOF    - Department of Fisheries
DLM    - Department of Lands and Mines
DVS    - Department of Veterinary Services
dusun  - backyard fruit orchard
ERR  . - Economic Rate of Return
FAMA   - Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
FELCRA - Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA  - Federal Land Development Authority
FOA    - Farmers Organization Authority
LCB    - Local Competitive Bidding
LPN    - Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara - National Padi and Rice Authority
MARDI  - Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA    - Ministry of Agriculture
O&M    - Operation and Maintenance
RISDA  - Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
RRIM   - Rubber Research Institute of Malays-ia
SEAS   - Statistics and Economic Analysis Section of the Planning and
Development Division, MOA
.4
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
MALACCA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Government of Malaysia
Beneficiary:        State of Malacca
Amount:             $25.4 million equivalent [including the capitalized front-end feel
Terms:              15 years with 3 years grace at 11.6 per annum.
Project             The project would provide for replanting of old rubber
Description:      areas totalling about 9,000 ha and maintenance up to
tapping of about 5,300 ha of rubber replanted in 1976-81;
construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation and
drainage schemes for about 4,400 ha; distribution of
about 2,500 crossbred heifers to smallholders and the
construction of a milk collection center; development of
about 260 ha of fishponds; construction of about 140 km
of farm and access roads; and improvement of agricultural
support services. The project would also provide for
equipment and vehicles for operation and maintenance,
staff and farmer training, and consulting services for
studies, design and construction supervision.
The project would directly increase the incomes of about
8,300 low-income rubber smallholders and padi farmers,
two of the major identifiable groups of rural poor in
Malaysia.  At full development, the project would enable
these beneficiaries to more than double their average
incomes to US$570 per capita from US$270 per capita at
present.
There are no unusual risks associated with the project.
However, coordination among the implementing agencies
would be crucial to project execution. To reduce this
risk, a Project Director has already been appointed and
participated in project negotiations; and adequate funds
for consulting services have been provided to assist the
implementing agencies in carrying out the project related
components. In respect of the dairy component, the risks
involved are connected with the adoption of suitable
levels of technology by smallholders. To reduce this
risk, veterinary extension services and farmers training
would be strengthened under the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local Foreign Total
--- (US$ million) ---
Estimated Cost:/a  Rubber development                       19.5      8.4    27.9
Irrigation, drainage & river
improvement                           1.9       1.5     3.4
Farm & access roads                     1.1       0.7      1.8
Dairy development                       1.0       1.6     2.6
Padi seed multiplication                0.1       -       0.1
Cash crop development                   0.6       0.4     1.0
Dusun rehabilitation                    0.2       0.2     0.4
Fishpond construction                   1.1       0.7     1.8
Pilot schemes                           0.2       0.2     0.4
Buildings                               2.3       0.8     3.1
Equipment & vehicles                    0.2       1.4      1.6
Training                                0.2       0.4     0.6
Consultant services & studies           0.7       0.3     1.0
Land acquisition                        1.0       -        1.0
Engineering & supervision               2.1       0.2     2.3
Incremental administration and
operation costs                       4.1       0.4     4.5
Base Cost                        36.3      17.2    53.5
Physical contingencies                  3.1       2.4     5.5
Expected price increases               12.0       5.4    17.4
Total Project Cost               51.4      25.0    76.4
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan              -         0.4     0.4
Total Financing Required          51.4     25.4    76.8
Financing Plan:    Government                               51.4      -       51.4
Bank                                    -        25.4    25.4
Total                            51.4      25.4    76.8
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY    1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Annual       0.7   1.3   3.1   4.4   4.3   5.0   5.2   1.4
Cumulative  0.7   2.0   5.1   9.5  13.8  18.8  24.0  25.4
Rate of Return:    15%
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3814-MA, dated April 26, 1982.
IBRD Map: No. 16173
/a Exempt from all known taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR MALACCA AGRICULTURAL DENTELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$25.4 nillion, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Malacca Agricultural
Development Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
three years of grace, with interest at 11.6 per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA) is dated October 14, 1977. In July 1980,
a book, written at the request of the government and entitled "Malaysia:
Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society" was published. This section
contains information gathered in recent updating missions; a new economic
report is under preparation.
3.        By most econonic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance has
been outstanding. The per capita income of USS1,670 in 1980 (World Bank
Atlas) is among the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita
GDP growth has averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per
capita growth achieved in the sixties. This sustained good performance is a
reflection of several factors including the country's wealth in natural
resources especially ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; good economic and financial management; and, not least,
stable social and political institutions. Three specific elements have been
important: first, substantial attention and priority has been given to
agriculture resulting in high productivity gains in the sector, which have
cushioned against occassional steep price declines; second, manufacturing
growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a. in the last two decades, following
first an import substituting pattern, but later increasingly oriented towards
exports; third, in a very open econony with exports and imports averaging 49%
of GDP (1970-80), exports have diversified from an initial large dependence
on rubber and tin to include palm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Mtalays, 35%' Chinese and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income
between ethnic communities and has also been struggling with a serious
poverty problem. In 1q70, about half the households in the country had
insufficient incomes to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter,
clothing and other basic needs. This poverty has been concentrated among
agricultural families, which are predominantly Mlalay.  In 1971, the govern-
ment declared a New Economic Policy (NEP) and accorded the highest priority to
eradicating poverty and redticing the racial imbalance in income, employment
and the owmership of assets. More specifically it was targetted that by
1990 the incidence of poverty will he reduced to 16.7% of households, and
that the share of Buniputeras /1 in the ownership of the corporate sector
/1 "Bumiputera" literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to
refer to M1alays and other indigenous groups.



- 2 -
will increase from about 4% in 1970 to at least 30%. These intentions serve
as the fundamental policy objectives of government. In the mid term of this
program, substantial progress has been made. By 1980, the incidence of
poverty had declined to 29% of all households and there were 125,000 fewer
poor households than in 1970. The Bumiputera share of corporate assets
increased from 4.3% in 1971 to an estimated 12.4% in 1980, whilst the
Chinese community achieved their target 40% share in 1980, some ten years
ahead of schedule. Over the same period, there were significant changes in
the distribution of employment in line with the restructuring objective that
employment in all sectors and at all levels reflects the racial composition
of the country.
5.        The government s overall strategy of pursuing high growth, along
with a series of direct interventions have been instrumental in this fast
pace of achievement of the NEP objectives.  In particular over the last
decade, the rapid opening of income and employment opportunities in the
modern sector, where productivity and wages are much higher than in agri-
culture, successfully channelled the flows of labor market entrants into
positions where they did not become, or remain poor. Simultaneously, this
reduced the pressure of population on the agricultural base. Thus, only 14%
of the net addition to the labor force between 1970 and 1980 was accounted
for by new agricultural employment, in contrast to previous decade where 35%
of all new jobs were found in agriculture. At the same time, high labor
demand facilitated the penetration by Malays into occupations and sectors in
which they were previously under-represented, as well as fostered Malay
amobility into the more senior levels of occupations. In addition,
restructuring corporate asset ownership was made easier by the rapid
economy-wide growth, where redistribution could occur from the increments to
national wealth rather than from existing stocks. Direct interventions by
the government, however, also proved important in the progress toward
achieving the NEP objectives. These were particularly extensive in
agriculture, including new land development and farmer resettlement, major
irrigation schemes, technical and financial support for rubber replanting,
extension and marketing assistance, and selective subsidy programs. The
success of many of these programs is attested by the fact that smallholder
productivity over a range of products increased significantly during the
decade, with positive impact on farm income and reduction of poverty.
The government also directly intervened to achieve the asset redistribution
target. Because the volume of Malay savings is relatively small, as may be
expected with lower average Malay incomes, substantial amounts of corporate
equities were purchased by the government to be held "in trust" for the
Bumiputera community.  Recently a scheme has been developed to divest these
government holdings to individual Malays.
6.        Against this broad background of progress, the economy has been
undergoing some important structural changes. Industry has replaced
agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and manufactured exports have
replaced import substitution as the cutting edge of industrial growth. As
noted, the composition of exports has changed from a rather narrow to a much



more diversified set of commodities.  This diversification has proved
important as two of Malaysia's major foreign exchange earners - timber and tin
show signs of flagging vitality. In the case of timber, exploitation of the
resource has led to detrimental environmental consequences and the government
has now established a Forest Conservation policy which will limit, in effect,
the quantum of exports.  In the case of tin, increasing costs of extraction
and the exhaustion of many mines have resulted in declining export volumes.
But perhaps the most important ongoing change in the economy's structure is
the diminishing retention of labor in the rural areas, such that it is
expected that the agricultural labor force may soon peak before declining in
absolute numbers.  Whilst plentiful evidence points to selective processes at
work fostering this outcome, the precise turning point is not easy to predict
as much depends on the rate of growth of and the pace at which labor can be
absorbed in the modern sector. Nonetheless, some of the symptoms of this
change including accelerating migration of the young and educated from the
farms to the towns, more visible "shortages" of semi-skilled agricultural
laborers and an increasing incidence of idle and abandoned land suggest that
future problems of agriculture and poverty in Malaysia may differ in important
respects from those of the past. The poverty problem is likely to be
increasingly characterized as one of aging, elderly farmers, unable to adjust
fully to loss of family labor, with consequent reduction in their farm output.
The great importance of agriculture to the Malaysian economy both in terms of
its contribution to GDP as well as its role as a major earner of foreign
exchange - makes it important to devise policies which maintain the agricul-
tural resource base, improve land/man ratios, augment agricultural labor
productivity and incomes, and improve, through social interventions, the
standard of living in the rural areas. Mindful of these challenges the
government is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of agricultural
strategy and policies, with the intention of announcing a National
Agricultural Policy later this year.
7.        Whilst, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occassional difficulty.
This is true of the very recent past where Malaysia has been particularly
affected by downturns in the prices of major export commodities. Between 1977
and 1980 prices for palm oil, rubber, timber and petroleum increased rapidly
and export receipts nearly doubled. The terms of trade improved by 15% in the
same period and real national income increased by more than 10% p.a.  Since
1980, however, prices for rubber and tin have fallen rapidly, palm oil
and timber prices have not recovered to the high levels experienced in 1979
and, in part, due to the recession in the OECD countries, petroleum and
manufacturing export volumes have declined. Somewhat expansionary, contra-
cyclical, fiscal and monetary policies have been applied to cushion the impact
of terms of trade imposed losses in real income and to maintain the momentum
of growth. In combination, these elements have led to sharp deterioration in
the current account of the balance of payments from an average surplus of
about 2% of GNP in 1977-80 to a deficit of about 10% in 1981 and an expected
similar outcome in 1982. Gross external reserves declined from about 5 months



- 4 -
import coverage in 1980 to 4 months at the end of 1981. Inflation, as
measured by the Consumer Price Index, increased from an average of 4% in
1976-79 to about 10% in 1981.
8.        In the short run, Malaysia should not find it difficult to weather
external deficits of this magnitude. The country has rarely run large
balance of payments deficits with the result that its external indebtedness is
relatively low, and in recent years, the debt service ratio has averaged
about 5%. The country's creditworthiness ratings are, therefore, excellent.
Over the medium term, however, very large deficits will not prove sustain-
able.  Some relief on the export side may, however, be expected.  Recovery
from the international recession should improve major commodity prices and
restore some of the dynamism of Malaysia's manufacturing export growth;
additional foreign exchange will be earned as the country begins to export
LNG, starting in 1983. At the same time, a more appropriate balance between
national expenditures and national income will need to be restored. The
"boom" years of 1977-80 substantially raised the investment ratio to GDP as
well as facilitated very high import growth. Close surveillance over the
level and growth of public expenditures, of the efficiency of public
investment, and of the size and sources of financing for the public deficit
will need to be exercised. In the longer term, the economy will no longer
be able rely so heavily on the rapid growth of primary commodities. Whilst
Malaysia is rich in natural resources, which will provide a reliable base
for the expansion of the economy, the growth rates of the production of such
commodities as rubber, palm oil, petroleum and forest products are all
likely to be lower than in the past. With growth decelerating in the
resource sector, continued rapid industrial growth will increasingly become
essential to successful economic performance. This imperative arises not
only from the viewpoint of production, and the creation of real incomes but
also from the viewpoint of achieving the NEP targets. As the most obvious
areas of import substitution have been exhausted, sustained rapid growth in
manufacturing will have to rely increasingly on export expansion. Policies
will, therefore, have to ensure a favorable export environment. The
Government is presently undertaking a series of studies to serve as the
basis for the reformulation of industrial and export incentives.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery over the
medium term, continued expenditure restraint by the government, and an
improved incentive structure for exports, the current account deficit should,
relative to GNP, decline from 1983 onwards and achieve approximate balance
later in the decade. Under this scenario, Malaysia will continue to enjoy a
7-8% GDP growth over the next few years. The debt service ratio will
increase from its average 5% of exports in 1977-80 to 12% of exports in 1990.
At end-1980 about 16% of external debt outstanding and disbursed is from the
World Bank. These percentanges are expected to remain unchanged by 1990.
The Bank share of debt service is currently about 8% and, again, is expected
to remain unchanged by 1990.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
10.       The Bank has made 52 loans to Malaysia, totalling $1,281.47 million
for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
As of March 31, 1982, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the Bank
amounted to $1,097.82 million. Twenty-three loans have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of projects under implementation.
11.       In view of Malaysia's proven capability to prepare and implement
traditional infrastructure projects independently, the Bank's present lend-
ing strategy in the country is to support the Government's programs to
combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in
the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide
financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to develop an
institutional and policy framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to
design and implement antipoverty programs independently. With this in mind,
the Bank has proposed to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such
as the Agricultural Credit Bank (BPM), the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA), and area and state development agencies in
the poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their experience in the
designing of projects and serve as a basis for building managerial and
technical skills within these institutions. Technical assistance of this
nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be the most effective
way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian development at present.
12.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. Ten
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of
tree crops, national extension and research. At least 11 additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
next few years.
13.       The Government's capability to develop such projects, however,
remains weak, largely because of a shortage of trained manpower. With the
help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State and Rural Development
Project, which provided technical assistance to selected federal and state
agencies, the Bank has helped the Government to develop further its programs
and projects for reducing poverty.



14.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more
heavily on technical and skill training. It is also seeking new initiatives
in providing support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in
promoting the growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the
Government to realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives.
Assistance to infrastructure in the future will be selective, concentrating
on providing access to rural areas and rural electrification.
15.       Overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in Malaysia has
been satisfactory. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of cumulative
disbursements to cumulative commitments from FY75 to FY81 displays a pattern
of continuous improvement over the six-year period, although the ratio of
commitments to disbursements has remained unchanged. Overall disbursement
performance of $94.3 million in FY81 represented a 38% improvement over the
FY80 figure of $68.1 million. Based on actual disbursements for first half of
FY82, the outcome for FY82 will probably be some $35 million above the FY81
level. Actual disbursement by March 31, 1982, is $84.3 million against the
revised FY82 estimate for the year of $164.1 million. Despite these
improvements, disbursements lag behind the revised estimates for the first
half of FY82 by about $22 million. The major problems causing disbursement
delays are: delays in project startup due to manpower shortages and
time-consuming land acquisition procedures; limited capacity of the Public
Works Department and the local contracting industry. To improve the
situation, the Bank carried out its first project implementation review in
collaboration with the implementing agencies in November last year. Further
reviews will be undertaken periodically with a view to improving the overall
implementation of projects, which should have a positive impact on
disbursements. It is also proposed to reinforce the implementation reviews
with occasional seminars on disbursements for the benefit of the implementing
agencies.
16.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of March 31, 1982 amounted to $1.14 mil-
lion (Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
17.       The agricultural sector plays an important role in the economy of
Malaysia, though its relative importance is declining as the country proceeds



- 7 -
toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 24% of GDP, 40% of
export earnings, and 41% of employment. Real GDP in agriculture grew at an
average of 4.3% p.a. in the 1970s. Based on past investments in tree crops
and new land development, and continuing public sector investments, growth is
likely to be sustained at 3.5% p.a. for the next decade. Agricultural
production has always been heavily export-oriented; however, the composition
of primary exports has changed significantly in the last decade due to the
Government's diversification policy. Rubber continues to be the single
largest export earner, but its share has dropped from 33% in 1970 to 17% in
1980 as earnings from palm oil, and wood products have increased. Malaysia is
the world's largest producer and exporter of both rubber and palm oil,
supplying about 45% of the world's natural rubber and well over 50% of palm
oil in 1980. The agricultural sector's share of total employment has
gradually declined from 50% in 1970 to 41% in 1980. The Government expects
industry and services sectors to absorb an increasingly larger proportion of
the total labor force in the next decade.
18.       Malaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in tree
crops which accounts for the dominance of rubber, oil palm and coconut in the
pattern of land use, output and exports. Peninsular Malaysia has about
3.3 million hectares (ha), 25% of its area, under cultivation, of which about
2.5 million ha are in rubber and oil palm. The other major crops are padi,
about 340,000 ha, of which some 60% is double-cropped, and coconut, with about
250,000 ha. The entire padi area and about two-thirds of the treecrop area
are in small holdings.
19.       During the period 1970-80, rubber production increased by 26% and
palm oil by 500%; output of rice increased by 33%, primarily due to improved
and expanded irrigation facilities. Domestic production supplies about 85% of
Malaysia's rice requirements.
20.       Notwithstanding the impressive performance of the Malaysian economy,
in 1980 some 29% of the population had incomes below the official absolute
poverty line. Two thirds of these were in agricultural households, where the
incidence of absolute poverty was about 46%. The largest poverty group in
Malaysia is rubber smallholders. Despite significant yield increases over the
past two decades, their incomes in real terms have hardly improved. In 1980,
about 41% of the 426,000 rubber smallholders were in poverty; similarly,
some 55% of the 151,000 padi smallholders were in poverty.
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development
21.       Having otticially adopted in 1970 the objective of poverty eradi-
cation, the Government has employed two basic agricultural strategies. The



- 8 -
first is development of new land to transfer labor from low productivity
rural occupations to higher productivity managed agricultural employment.
The second has been in situ development, including projects and programs
aimed directly at increasing smallholder productivity. Implementation of
these strategies, aided by strong performance in the secondary and tertiary
sectors, has contributed to a significant decline in the incidence of
poverty in agriculture: from 68% in 1970 to 46% in 1980. Strong industrial
growth during this period provided enough employment outside agriculture to
absorb two thirds of the increase in the rural labor force. Large scale
irrigation projects, such as Muda and Kemubu, came into production in the
early 1970s and provided increases in rice productivity that significantly
changed the income position of 73,000 smallholders. These projects allowed
the country to reduce its imports from 22% of consumption requirements in
1970, to about 11% in 1980. Government agencies, such as the Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA), carried out land development projects opening
up over 1.1 million ha of new lands, mostly for treecrops, and resettled
about 250,000 rural families.
22.       In the Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-85, agricultural development
will be guided by the principal objectives of increasing food production,
accelerating export earnings; increasing the productivity and incomes of the
agricultural labor force; and assigning priorities for agricultural crops.
The major treecrops, rubber and oil palm, will continue to be given priority
as they contribute significantly to increasing smallholders incomes.
Emphasis will continue to be given to cocoa, tobacco, vegetables and fruits,
as mixed crops, and the expansion of livestock and fisheries. In addition,
greater attention will be given to improved marketing and institution
building.  In the Third Malaysia Plan, 1976-80, about US$2.1 billion, or 19%
of the total development expenditures were channeled to agriculture.  This
would be increased to about US$3.6 billion, or 20% of the development budget,
under the Fourth Malaysia Plan.  The Government has also introduced a small-
holder interest-free credit program for poverty alleviation projects.  Other
production and poverty oriented measures include reduction in the rubber
export tax, increase in padi price support, and provision of free
fertilizers to rice smallholders, and subsidies on various crops, livestock
and fishponds. Ongoing Bank sector work is reviewing the efficiency of the
various agricultural subsidies in a sector-wide context.
Rubber Development
23.       The main agencies involved in the smallholder rubber industry are:
the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA); the Federal
Land Development Authority (FELDA); the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA); the Malaysian Rubber Development
Corporation (MARDEC); the various state land development agencies; and the
Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM). In 1953, the Rubber Industry
Replanting Board was organized to administer the replanting funds for estates
and smallholdings generated by a cess on rubber exports first levied in



- 9 -
1951. RISDA, established in 1973, took over the functions of the Replanting
Board, which helped rejuvenate the rubber industry, and the Smallholders
Advisory Service of the RRIM.
24.       Smallholdings accounted for about 1.2 million ha or 70% of the total
1.7 million ha of land planted to rubber in Peninsular Malaysia. About
0.9 million ha were owned by 375,000 individual smallholders, with an average
of 2.4 ha. Some 0.3 million ha are owned by smallholders whose plots are part
of government-sponsored land development schemes organized within the past 25
years. Bank assistance for smallholder rubber development began with a
program of six FELDA projects involving more than 25,000 settler families on
about 117,000 ha of land devoted to oil palm, rubber and cocoa. The first
three projects provided for the development and settlement of about 40,000 ha,
of which 16,000 were in rubber, in the Jengka Triangle. Project Performance
Audit Reports for Jengka I and II (Reports No. 2122 and 3021) noted the
success of the projects in terms of improved incomes and living conditions of
the settlers and the build-up of FELDA's technical capability. The third and
last stage of the Jengka Triangle project was completed in 1981. Two more
projects, with a primary focus on oil palm, the Johore Land Settlement
(Loan 967-MA) and Keratong Land Settlement (Loan 1044-MA) are expected to be
completed by end-1982. The FELDA VI Project (Loan 1590-MA), involving
development of 21,000 ha of rubber, 8,000 ha of oil palm and 800 ha of cocoa,
is under implementation. Implementation of the above projects is satisfactory
and FELDA has now developed into a competent land development agency.
Irrigation Development
25.       Irrigation development in Malaysia is devoted almost entirely to
rice production. The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), established in
1932, is responsible for land improvement and water resources development,
particularly for rice.   Until 1960, irrigation schemes were designed for
single crop rice production during the wet season, providing water to
supplement rainfall during short periods of drought. In the early 1960s,
irrigation was expanded as part of the massive rural development program after
independence, and DID began emphasizing double cropped padi cultivation by
building storage dams and pumping stations and upgrading distribution systems.
DID has provided irrigation to practically all major rice producing areas, and
70% of the country's 420,000 ha of padi land now has some form of irrigation
and about 50% is capable of double cropping. In addition, DID has constructed
drainage schemes on some 425,000 ha of land devoted to treecrops and it has
also developed new land for padi production.
26.       The Bank has participated in irrigation development in Malaysia
since 1965 when it financed the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
followed in 1967 by the Kemubu Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA). Together,
the project areas amount to nearly 120,000 ha, or about 25% of the padi land



- 10 -
in Peninsular Malaysia, and accommodate some 73,000 farm families. According
to the Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 1295), they were
successful projects which helped to reduce rice imports from 42% of national
requirements in 1967 to 17% in 1974, and resulted in increases of 75-100% in
the incomes of project beneficiaries. In these projects, the design of field
distribution and drainage systems, based on standards prevailing in East Asia
in the 1960s, involved widely spaced secondary canals and field-to-field
irrigation and drainage.  At that time, there was neither the experience in
design and construction of more intensive modes of on-farm development, nor
widespread use of the modern varieties which depend on precise water control
at the field level.  Higher standards of on-farm development are now being
initiated in the Muda II Project (Loan 1717-MA), on 25,000 ha.
27.        In early 1981, the Bank approved two land development cum-settlement
projects:  the Rompin-Endau Area Development Project (Loan 1957-MA) would
involve land clearing and construction of a new irrigation and drainage system
for about 11,400 ha; the Trans-Perak Area Development Project (Loan 1960-MA)
would provide for improvement of about 3,700 ha of padi land, development of
about 6,400 ha of new padi land and about 8,400 ha of treecrops. Five other
Bank-financed projects, which will improve, expand and intensify irrigation
over 116,000 ha of padi land and drainage over 212,000 ha of tree crops, are
under implementation. These projects include, in addition to irrigation and
drainage infrastructure, improved agricultural support services such as
credit, extension, processing and marketing.
PART IV - THF PROJECT
Background
28.       Under the Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-85, the Government has proposed
a series of multi-component agricultural development projects to alleviate
rural poverty. About US$390 million, comprising slightly over 10% of the
agricultural development budget, has been allocated for these projects in the
Plan. Under the multi-component concept, emphasis will be given to land use
intensification, crop diversification and improvements to agricultural. support
services. A project identification brief, prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture, was received by the Bank in late 1979. The Government-s
objective in formulating the project was to bring all agriculture and related
agencies together and thus better serve the needs of mixed cropping farmers.
This is particularly relevant in the densely populated state of Malacca where,
in addition to the major components aimed at stimulating smallholder rubber
and padi production, activities such as smallholder dairy, fishpond and
backyard fruit orchard (dusun) cultivation may contribute substantially to
improving farm incomes.
29.       Project component proposals were prepared by individual departments/
agencies in consultation with multi-disciplinary groups coordinated by a
Steering Committee of Federal and State representatives. In Malacca, local



- 11 -
management consultants (KPM Khidmat Sdn. Bhd.) were engaged in April 1980 to
compile a project implementation plan based on preparation reports from the
agency working groups and a final report was published in January 1981.
30.       The project was appraised in September/October 1981.  Negotiations
were held from April 8-9, 1982. The Malaysian Government delegation was
led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Details of
the project are provided in the Staff Appraisal Report entitled, "Malacca
Agricultural Development Project" (No. 3814-MA, dated April 26, 1982), which
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary
project data are given in Annex III.
Project Description and Objectives
31.       The project would provide for development of rubber areas, construc-
tion and improvement of irrigation and drainage works, smallholder dairy
development, fishpond development, farm roads, and improvement of agricultural
support services. About 8,300 smallholder families would benefit. The
project focuses on two of the major identifiable groups of rural poor, the
rubber smallholders and padi farmers. At full development, the project would
enable the beneficiaries to increase their present incomes of about US$270 per
capita to about US$570 per capita.
32.       The main features of the project are:
(a) Smallholder Rubber Development, including replanting with
improved clonal materials of about 9,000 ha of old, low-yielding
rubber; maintenance until commencement of tapping of some 5,300 ha
of rubber replanted in the years 1976-81; planting of new rubber
totalling about 320 ha; development of a new 48 ha new rubber
nursery; and construction of 72 group rubber processing
centers, 3 smokehouses and central storage facilities;
(b) Infrastructure Development, including construction of a new
irrigation scheme for about 66 ha of padi and improvements to
five existing irrigation schemes serving about 1,850 ha;
improvement of nine drainage works and river channels servil.g
about 2,500 ha of padi and other crops; and construction of farm
and access roads totalling about 140 km;
(c) Crop Development Programs, including establishment of a padi
seed multiplication program; planting of about 380 ha per annum
of various cash crops; and rehabilitation of smallholder orchards
and backyard fruit lots totalling about 810 ha;
(d) Dairy and Fishery Development, including distribution of
2,500 crossbred dairy heifers to 1,000 new and 500 existing dairy
farmers; establishment of some 250 ha of on-farm fodder grass



- 12 -
production; construction and equipping of a milk collection center
handling up to 1,350 liters of milk per day; and construction and
stocking of about 260 ha of fresh-water fish ponds; and
(e) Implementation of Pilot Schemes for perennial crops on 160 ha of
fragmented, idle agricultural land.
33.       In addition, the project would provide for buildings, vehicles
and equipment for training, agricultural support services and operation and
maintenance, and consultant services for studies, detailed design and
construction supervision of project works.
Project Implementation
34.       The project would be implemented over six years (mid-1982 to
mid-1988). All works are expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.
Preparation of detailed designs and tender documents for the project works to
be carried out during the first year would be ready by mid-1982. By end-1984
all topographic surveys, planning, design, evaluation of schemes and land
acquisition would be completed. Construction activities would gradually
increase and peak in 1985. Equipment and vehicle procurement would be phased
with field requirements, but grouped as much as possible for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) purposes. The various project agencies would
recruit all needed staff and construct facilities over the first three years
of the project. Consultants would be engaged to assist DID in design and
construction supervision.
Project Cost and Financing
35.       Total project costs for the six-year period 1982-88, in mid-1982
prices, are estimated at US$76.4 million, with a foreign exchange component of
US$25 million, or 33%. The cost estimates exclude all known taxes and duties.
For civil works and land development, cost estimates are based on quantitites
and unit prices prepared by the implementing agencies. Consultant expendi-
tures for DID preparatory works totalling about US$0.3 million prior to
mid-1982 have been included in the cost calculations. Unit prices are in line
with recent bid prices in Malaysia. Physical contingencies of 15% were
applied for the main activities such as irrigation and rubber replanting, 5%
for buildings, equipment and vehicles, and 20% for imported heifers and pilot
schemes development. Expected price increases over the project implementation
period amount to 29% of base costs plus physical contingencies, assuming price
escalation for both foreign and local expenditures of 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in
1983-85 and 6.0% in 1986-88.
36.       The proposed Bank loan of US$25.4 million, including a front-end
fee of US$0.4 million, would finance the full foreign exchange requirements
of the project. The loan would include about US$0.3 million of retroactive
financing for project start-up activities included in project costs
(para. 35). The Government's contribution of US$51.4 million would be
financed through annual budgetary allocations.



- 13 -
Pilot Schemes and Studies
37.       Consultants would undertake a study to prepare two schemes for the
conversion of about 160 ha of largely idle agricultural lands to perennial
crops, probably oil palm. The study would include a detailed soil survey, a
revised land utilization plan, infrastructure plans and a report on land
tenure aspects using data from a recently completed socio-economic survey of
landowners and tenants. The study would also include an implementation plan
for land aggregation, and agricultural development. Agency responsibilities
in the management of the scheme and the nature of farmer organization and
participation would also be covered. A comprehensive study on the utilization
of about 4,000 ha of idle agricultural lands in Malacca State would also be
undertaken to identify the constraints against and opportunities for more
intensive production. An assurance has been obtained that the Government
would submit, by June 30, 1982, the terms of reference of consultants to be
employed for carrying out the studies on the usage of idle agricultural lands
for the Bank's review and comment (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Consultant Services
38.       The total cost of the 366 man-months of consultants, of which 336
man-months local and 30 man-months foreign, would be about US$1.0 million, to
be employed by DID and MOA. The average cost of local consultants (including
salary, overhead, profits, local travel and allowances) is estimated to be
about US$2,200 per man-month and the average cost of expatriate consultants,
about US$8,700 per man-month. DID has extensive experience in the design,
execution, and operation of irrigation and drainage works, and is fully
qualified to design the project works. However, DID is currently designing
and supervising construction of projects to the limits of its current capa-
city. For this reason, DID would require 286 man-months of consultants for
design and construction supervision under the project, of which about 120
man-months would be utilized before implementation begins. The Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) would employ consultants for 50 man-months for the pilot
schemes and studies described in para. 37 above. MOA would also engage
consultants (30 manmonths) to advise the Project Director and MOA's Planning
and Development Division in planning, programming, coordination and monitoring
and evaluation of multi-component projects. Consultants would be selected in
accordance with the principles and procedures described by the Bank
Guidelines.  An assurance has been obtained that the consultants engaged under
the project would be employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
39.       Works.  All project works are small and widely scattered and
implementation would entail interaction with a large number of farmers,
operating staff, and with government land acquisition teams. Such works,
consisting of small irrigation and drainage schemes, farm and access roads,
and buildings, totalling about US$12 million including contingencies, have



- 14 -
estimated contract sizes less than US$2.5 million and are unlikely to interest
foreign bidders. Of the 22 contracts to be awarded under this arrangement the
largest would be about US$2.2 million for drainage and irrigation and the rest
would be for less than US$1.3 million each. The average contract size would
be about US$500,000. These works would be procured by local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, with foreign
bidders having the opportunity to participate.
40.       Rubber replanting for mini-estates /1 covering some 2,250 ha and
valued at about US$4 million would be let through LCB. The balance, totalling
about US$24 million involving scattered smallholdings, would be carried out by
individual or groups of farmers under close RISDA supervision. Fishpond
development, dusun rehabilitation and cash crop development would also be
carried out by individual or groups of farmers under close supervision by
relevant agencies.
41.       Goods.  Equipment, totalling about US$1.3 million including
contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages above
US$200,000 and procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever
is lower.  Vehicles in various packages estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$200,000 each and the equivalent of US$600,000 in the
aggregate required by the implementing agencies would be procured under LCB
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items of
equipment in packages costing less than the equialent of US$25,000 each and
not more than the equivalent of US$100,000 in the aggregate may be procured
in accordance with the normal Government procurement procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
42.       Procurement of dairy heifers to be imported under the project
would be made through prudent international shopping. The successful bidder
would be required to arrange for the breeding and raising of crossbred
heifer calves, and shipment of animals as weaners or yearlings. The con-
tract should provide for the staff of the Department of Veterinary Services
to make the selection of animals for shipment to Malaysia, and further
health inspection on arrival in Malaysia. The estimated cost of heifers
would be about US$3.5 million, including physical and price contingencies.
Disbursements
43.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made at the rate of 100%
against the foreign exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment,
/1 Mini-estates are contiguous areas of about 40 ha or more of small-
holders rubber in which individual owners have leased their land
titles to RISDA for the benefits of larger scale and higher standards
of replanting and field maintenance for the immature period and
early production years.



- 15 -
or the ex-factory price net of taxes for items manufactured locally, and at
the rate of 80% of the total costs of imported items procured locally.
Disbursement for works executed by contract would be 56% of total costs. For
rubber replanting and maintenance, disbursement would be at the rate of 56% of
the replanting grant, based on certified quarterly statements of expenditures
(para. 48). Related documents would be retained by RISDA and made available
to Bank missions for inspection (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
For crossbred dairy heifers, disbursement would be made at the rate of 100%
against the foreign exchange cost. For consulting services and overseas
training, disbursements would equal 100% of total expenditures. No disburse-
ment would be made against cash crop subsidies, dusun rehabilitation, fishpond
development and family income maintenance loans.  Disbursements from the Bank
loan would not exceed the foreign exchange component of the project and are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
44.       The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
government controls and audit procedures. It has been agreed that all
agencies involved in project implementation would maintain separate project
accounts which would be collated by the Project Director; these accounts would
be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and forwarded to
the Bank within nine months of the close of each financial year (Section 4.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Organization and Management
45.       The six participating agencies in the project are:  the Rubber
Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), under the Ministry of
Land and Regional Development; the Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID);
the Department of Agriculture (DOA); the Farmer's Organization Authority
(FOA); the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS); and the Department of
Fisheries (DOF), all under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA). Other supporting agencies include: the Federal Agricultural
Marketing Authority (FAMA); the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment Institute (MARDI); the Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM); the National Padi
and Rice Authority (LPN); and the Department of Lands and Mines (DLM).
Their respective responsibilities are detailed in paras. 48-51.
46.       A Project Director appointed by MOA would be responsible for overall
project direction. He would be guided on policy matters by a Steering
Committee composed of representatives from all government agencies with
project responsibilities, co-chaired by the Secretary General of MOA and the
State Secretary of Malacca. A suitably qualified Project Director has already
been appointed and the appointment of two of his key staff, an accounting
officer and an economist, is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01
of the draft Loan Agreement). Involvement of the State Secretary (the
highest ranking civil servant in Malacca) in the Steering Committee, who has
broad executive authority, would ensure participation of both State and
district level agencies and officers as well as coordination of project
activities.



- 16 -
This management structure has satisfactorily worked in previous Bank-financed
multicomponent agricultural development projects (Loans 973-MA, 1294-MA,
1444-MA, 1522-MA, and 1632-MA) and a similar structure was adopted for the two
recently approved projects (Loans 1957-MA and 1960-MA). The proposed
management structure is in line with the federal and state responsibilities
and jurisdictions under the Malaysian constitution.
47.       The Project Director will be responsible for:  (a) monitoring
the plans, programs and schedules of implementing agencies and synchronizing
their activities with the overall project schedule; (b) preparing annual
project budgets, including staff and training requirements and procurement
of vehicles and equipment; (c) coordinating multi-agency agricultural
support programs; (d) representing project management in meetings with
government agencies, such as the Treasury and Public Service Department,
for fund approvals and releases and for staffing requirements; and
(e) reporting progress at regular intervals to the Government and the Bank.
Assurances have been obtained that the Project Director would (i) furnish,
by December 31, 1982, proposals for coordinating and integrating the various
agencies' agricultural extension programs serving all groups of farmers for
Bank's review and comment; and (ii) prepare, by June 30, 1984, a manual
detailing the operational roles of the various agricultural agencies as a
guide for field staff (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.      RISDA would be responsible for replanting, extension, provision
of group processing centers (GPCs) and other assistance to rubber
smallholders, including marketing. Over 95% of smallholder production is
processed and marketed by private traders and MARDEC. Each GPC,
constructed and equipped by RISDA on farmers' land, would be operated by
about 25 smallholders. RISDA's most important activity is the
administration of the rubber replanting grant to which smallholders with
title to rubber lands are eligible. It is financed from a cess on rubber
exports (para. 23) and a Federal government contribution, and is designed to
cover all development and upkeep costs including land preparation, planting
materials, fertilizers and chemicals up to the start of tapping. DID would
be responsible for the construction and rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage works, buildings, river improvements and farm and access roads,
excluding the farm roads within RISDA's mini-estates. To ensure that design
concepts of irrigation and drainage schemes are fully understood by
district-level staff who will maintain and operate the completed systems, an
assurance has been obtained that DID would prepare, on completion of final
design, a designers' operations manual covering major project works (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). DID would formulate a detailed
construction program in cooperation with the concerned agencies. The
designs and layout would be agreed with these agencies who would assist DID
in site selection and land acquisition. DOA would be responsible for the
agricultural support services, particularly farmer training and extension;
supply of seeds, planting materials and other inputs for crop
intensification and diversification. FOA would be responsible for
management and staffing of the farmers' cooperatives, mechanized



- 17 -
agricultural services, fertilizers and agrochemicals, and training for staff
and members of the farmers' cooperatives.
49.       DVS is responsible for animal health and livestock production
projects for smallholders. DVS, in consultation with Village Committees,
would select participating farmers, and arrange for training in dairy hus-
bandry at a Federal DVS training center. It has been agreed that selected
farmers would be suitably trained in dairy husbandry before receiving dairy
animals (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The importation of
suitable dairy crossbred heifers and the breeding and rearing of animals prior
to distribution as in-calf heifers to farmers would be the responsibility of
DVS. The in-calf heifers would be partially financed by a loan (about 50%)
from BPM and the balance would be subsidized by the Government. Under the
Government's poverty alleviation strategy, BPM would lend, from its own
resources, to smallholders on an interest-free basis. As facilities for
handling imported stock are not available in Malacca, an assurance was
obtained that the Government, prior to importation, would make arrangements
for rearing facilities for dairy animals in one or more of its DVS stations
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). DOF is responsible for the
development of freshwater fish ponds on farmers'land under a government
subsidy which meets up to 100% of construction costs and material inputs for
the first year of operation. In operating these subsidies, the DOF advises on
pond design, inspects completed ponds and provides extension services.
Smallholders owning less than 4 ha are eligible subject to water availability.
50.       FAMA would be responsible for marketing agricultural produce such as
fruits and vegetables, cocoa and coconut. FAMA would expand its marketing
activities under the project. MARDI would provide research services including
freshwater fish research, annual crops production and soil technology. BPM
would provide credit from its own resources to smallholders and would also
provide rural banking services. LPN, in cooperation with the private sector,
is responsible for providing and maintaining padi drying, storage and rice
milling facilities and marketing services. The private sector is expected to
expand in line with increased padi production to provide handling and
marketing facilities.
51.       The implementing agencies would require additional staff under the
project phased over the six-year project implementation period.  It has been
agreed that the Government shall ensure that adequate staff positions required
for the proper carrying out, and operation and maintenance of the project
thereafter, are duly established as and when needed and that qualified staff
are appointed in a timely manner to fill said positions (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
52.       The Malacca State DID would operate and maintain the irrigation and
drainage facilities and works to the tertiary level. The estimated annual O&M



- 18 -
cost for DID facilities is M$45 per ha. The farmers, under the guidance of
DID irrigation overseers, would be responsible for operations below the
tertiary offtakes. As improved water control and management are key elements
in achieving yield targets and cropping intensities, irrigation overseers
would instruct farmers on planned water distribution and management. DID
would maintain the farm roads within the padi schemes; and the District
Office access roads other than those leading to RISDA's mini-estates.
RISDA would maintain the access roads to mini-estates and agricultural roads
and drains within them; the smallholders would have responsibility for
maintenance of these within their individual holdings. The DVS would be
responsible for the management and operation of the milk collection center.
Maintenance of fishponds will be carried out by smallholders. The other
implementing agencies would be responsible for the maintenance of other
buildings and facilities which they administer.
Cost Recovery
53.       The Government imposes export taxes of about M,57/kg on rubber,
about 22% of projected 1982 prices, a replanting cess of MQ9.9/kg and a
research cess of M2.2/kg. At full development in 1995, project output would
generate export tax revenues of about US$8 million and cess collections of
US$1 million. Water charges to support O&M would be treated along the lines
of the previous seven Bank-financed agriculture and irrigation projects. In
Malaysia, operation and maintenance costs are funded from general state and
federal revenues. Nominal water and drainage rates are collected by state
governments and form part of the general revenue. In addition, almost all
project beneficiaries would be subject to zakat, a religious tithe, which is
10% of gross annual padi production. On project farms, zakat would average
about US$50 per farm p.a. at full development, about five times the
irrigation system O&M cost per farm. Thus, zakat payments would make a
substantial contribution to capital cost recovery. Also, smallholders would
repay, without interest (under the Government's poverty alleviation strategy),
about half of the capital cost of dairy cattle over three years, and the
income maintenance loan over 15 years. Based on present values of project
rent, zakat and other charges, export taxes, cess collections and subsidies
and loan repayment, the rent recovery indices for the beneficiaries would
range from 31% to 54%, or 39% for the total project. The cost recovery index
of the project is 43%.  This level of cost recovery is high in the context of
the relatively low income of the beneficiaries. Moreover, the Government has
levied cesses on rubber exports since 1951 and consequently the present value
of these payments, although not quantified, would more than offset the
replanting grant provided by the Government.
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       Monitoring of overall project implementation would be carried out by
the Project Director's Office. Physical and financial progress reports
from the implementing agencies would be collated by the Project Director's
Office and submitted to the Government and the Bank on a regular basis.
Overall monitoring of project benefits would. be undertaken by the MOA through



- 19 -
its Statistics and Economic Analysis Section (SEAS) of the Planning and
Development Division and would include benchmark surveys and subsequent
periodic surveys and evaluation. SEAS is responsible for monitoring and
evaluation of all multi-component agricultural development projects under MOA.
It will work closely with the key staff of the Project Coordinator and the
implementing agencies in respect of the design and operational aspects of
monitoring. RISDA, DOA, DVS and DOF would monitor the benefits of their
respective components. An assurance has been obtained that the Government
would, by December 31, 1983, furnish proposals for monitoring and evaluation
of the project for Bank's review and comment (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Environmental Effects
55.       Land development would be carried out within the guidelines of the
Malaysian Conservation Act which provides adequate safeguards against erosion,
siltation and excessive flooding. The scattered nature of development would
limit the impact of increased run-off and of dissolved plant nutrients.
Improvements to drainage and river channels would prevent occurrence of
standing water and flooding and thereby mitigate crop damage.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
56.       The project would contribute to the Government's goals of poverty
alleviation, increased exports, and reduced dependence on rice imports.
The average capital cost in financial prices, including physical
contingencies, is about US$2,600 per ha and about US$7,000 per family. The
incremental annual production of about 16,000 tons of rubber at full
development by about 1995 would result in net foreign exchange earnings of
about US$22 million while the incremental output of rice (5,500 tons) would
result in net foreign exchange savings of about US$3 million (all in 1982
prices). The project would also provide buildings and equipment for project
operations and maintenance, training, and a wide range of agricultural support
services. All of the direct project benefits would accrue to 8,300
smallholder families, about 50,000 people. The smallholders, 80% in the
target group, have average incomes of about US$270 per capita. With the
project, average incomes are expected to range from US$480 to US$940 per
capita. While these incomes would take the project beneficiaries aboNe the
absolute poverty level, it is expected that their incomes would still remain
below the projected critical consumption level.
57.       On the basis of the foregoing assumptions and discounting costs and
benefits over a 30-year period, the overall project economic rate of return
(ERR) is about 15%. The rubber replanting component has an ERR of 14%; the
rubber maintenance component, 15%; the dairy component, 10%; and the fishpond
component, 16%. For the irrigation and drainage component, four representa-
tive schemes (out of 15) were analyzed:/l a new irrigation scheme has an ERR
/1 Prior to start of construction, DID would prepare and submit to the Bank
an evaluation report following procedures established under the National
Small-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA). Each scheme should have
a minimum ERR of 10%.



- 20 -
ot 19X; an irrigation improvement scheme, 24%; a river improvement scheme,
14%; and a drainage improvement scheme, 11%. The dusun rehabilitation com-
ponent has an ERR of 14%. Sensitivity of the rates of return was tested to
cost overruns, reduction of benefits, and implementation delay. A cost
overrun of 15% in real terms, a benefit reduction of 15%, and a two-year
implementation delay applied to individual project components would not
signiticantly affect their economic viability except for the dairy component.
Its ERR of 10% makes it extremely sensitive to all variables tested. However,
given its significant contribution to farm incomes and the fact that the
project beneficiaries would have only 20% of the average national per capita
income at full development in 1995, the income distribution impact of this
component is likely to be significant.
58.       Risks.  There are no unusual risks associated with the project and
those normally associated with project benefits, costs, development period and
implementation delays have been evaluated in the sensitivity analyses.
However, coordination among the implementing agencies would be crucial to
project execution. To reduce this risk, the Project Director has already been
appointed and participated in the loan negotiations; and adequate funds for
consulting services have been provided to assist the project-related agencies.
In respect of the dairy component, the risks involved are connected with the
adoption of suitable levels of technology by smallholders. To reduce this
risk, veterinary extension services and farmers' training would be
strengthened under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
60.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
ot Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 29, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                                    ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'-
TUIAL            329.8                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTUBAL      65.1              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE L         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (UMS)                 250.0       470.0   1370.0                 1136.1                  1616.2
LNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILUGRAMS oE COAL EQUIVALENT)     252.8       518.0     767.2               1150.6                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS
PUPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 8028.0      10729.0   13137.0
URbAN POPULATIoN (PERCENT OF ToTAL) 25.2        27.0      29.1                 40.8                     64.2
PUPULATIUN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      19.9
STAIONARY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                        30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       24.3        32.5      39.8                373.1                     34.3
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    150.6       183.7     197.4               2382.8                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.2        45.4      41.5                 39.8                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         51.2        51.5      55.1                 56.7                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         3.1       3.4                  3.5                     4.0
PUPULATIoN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
ToTAL                              2.5         2.9       2.2                  2.3                      2.4
URBAN                              4.6         3.6       3.1                  3.8                     3.7
CRUoE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     39.1        32.6      28.3                 29.7                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.1         6.8       5.7                  7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..          ..       1.8                  1.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        56.0      80.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   .:          7.0      36.0                 44.1
POUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          85.0        99.0     118.0                123.7                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  105.0       113.0     117.0                112.6                   107.6
PROIEINS (GlRAS PER DAY)          48.0        51.0      57.0                 62.5                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       16.0        18.0      22.0                 19.7                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.3         7.8       2.0                  4.8                      7.6
HEAALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.3        59.5      68.2                 64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *-        40.8      31.8                 50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        29.0      62.0                 45.9                    65.7
URBAN                               ,.       100.0      93.0                 68.0                    79.7
RURAL                               ..         2.7      49.0                 34.4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
e                              TOTAL                                ..        59.0      60.0                 53.4                    59.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.0                 71.0                    75.7
RURAL                               ..        43.0      43.0                 42.4                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7467.9Ld    4527.0/d  8733.7/e            4428.7                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1776.0jc    1467.1/d  1288.81ALe           2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            265.0Ld     320.8/d   306.0                588.5                   471.2
URBAN                               ..       147.1/d      ..                579.6                   558.0
RURAL                               ..      2463.8/d      ..               1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BEN           ..         17.9     17.2                 36.7
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.9         5./d       .
URBAN                              5.9         5.9/d
RURAL                               ..         5.5        . 
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.0         2.66Ld
URBAN                              2.3         2.31       .
RURAL                               ..         2.8/4d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        43.4/d
URBAN                             82.9        84.7/d
RURAL                               ..        30.1/d



-22-                                                      ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0         91.0      94.0                    99.8                    101.7
MALE                 108.0        95.0       95.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE               83.0         87.0       92.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 19.0         35.0      48.0                   53.5                      35.3
MALE                  25.0        40.0       52.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE                13.0        29.0       44.0                   48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T OF SECONDARY)   5.0           3.2       2.0                    21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.0         32.0      31.0                   34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                          38.0         26.0      27.0                   31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        53.0         55.0         ..                   86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         22.2      39.1                    12.7                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TPOUSAND
POPULATION                         37.7         40.1     119.4                  174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.2         12.1      53.0                   50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  61.0         73.0     149.3                  106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0           9.4       2.7                    4.3                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2745.3       3622.2    4573.7
FEt4ALE (PERCENT)                  27.0         31.4      31.3                   37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.1         56.0      50.6                   50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.7         14.0      15.8                   21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                34.2         33.8      34.8                   40.2                      31.8
MALE                                 48.8         45.7      47.3                    49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                               18.9         21.5      22.0                   31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4       1.3                     1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         27.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         10.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     279.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     252.0                  193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     313.0                     *-                    513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     283.0                  234.3                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      16.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      46.0                   32.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Peninsular Malaysia;  /e Government personnel only.
May, 1981



-23-                                                                                      ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
DEFINIlTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Sot-.:  Although oh.e dataar  drf. irn-        ote  genraly..dge  th  toet authorltr- std reliable, it should al.b he ntedthat they  ay eo  he iInta-
nstfatllyooperahl  heotse of he isk of saod.oIced1-  deitntlote sod oco...pta ueed hy dtfferett  Iotnc   n  olotg thedata.  Th edta ct., none-
The re .ec  grou.. ar.      (I the m-a, cotty  roop lof the cut) act ....ttty ted (2) srI...ttry group nth .--oha  hIgher  -rtage  nc              that tha oountty gt-up
tfthe  bojc  conty(eoI         tfr.Cpia  turpluc S-    O E.fportata' gtooreh.re "Middle Ioooee Ntoth Africa and fliddle fEat'` Ieotose  heocuteof atto.gar
aoclc-ooltual afftniaae( .  In th  retetanocgroup datathertge  era  opulat--lot wegted arnoh..... .e.o. fot etch to doaotI          eonol   ha
eajottyof te cunoree  o a  tI o  hsdtfonat Indcto,Sic   he coeaeofoartieao-g  the InitOIaoe   depend. or the arilbihlty of d..a
sod      toncolfon, c Into   nua   heeneroleed  I...... erge  ofIone Indiotot- to anoher.  Th...--c vrg tae only ...fo  In copan   the vleo
taind-totr at e tice  angthe coutr  ad refrece  rope
thAM AREA )thoue..    qha(PoplaIo   oogopro  Od- noaloha   ntdtot-rootnn(ta
fTal - Tonl  urar  area   ioeing 1and er.en sd inland eaIa thIr  cd rta) dIvidedh  thlenreaec Ioe..he  c. ....r..t. bade
Agtlcolutei - anInaneof agrlolnuralarea uad  -eporerlly or petnananni                 avlblae       PInpblic ardpran gerl  itnpeole  horte  ad  a
y0, crops,pttte,P     tankr codklth.. getdea or to Iie  fallow: 1978 data.                               . bhlttccatr. (oplcl   r  cohthenaprn n    staIffe
hy at itact one phyalia.i    Pttatlafeent  prolli  rnoplly cuafo-
ft PpEt CAPITA (Vt)) - GNP potcote        a  ttct      current nekgtple.c                            nlcr   r  noni Iriddborlhelul,hcnr Include health
culatad hy .te..   oer.  n  nnhod cc AcridSn  Ata 17-79 had.); 1'96C,                             end eedItcl ceteo  notPere..tently ataffed hy a phytlilat (ban hya
1971, end 1979 dane.                                                                             nadicel ae Itno. ca te, nidfe, ent .   hch offer tn-panlenaoreno
declo  and prria    alo.ed rargt of teuca  tclltec    Persatc
onniy Ccnlftplot Pt chIth- Actual c--nolco   omotle nery(ca                                 ncipupet   ranhcytl  inctud    o   rrlnorieenlhatl,
coe  Int.pnoeu,ntrlfeed   hydro-,  -cone  uo   etena   lc d                                                         Itrhh'rol   oalo   oa  Araptal e.ndaelludetely
ttrioty) toklorn  o   cI    qIvalet Per otpit; 1960, 1970, end 1979                               cantata.  tyacilliced h.epilnal  Ire itcidad only  odrn tocuI
data.                                                                   Adetttbon~~~~~~~~~~~.-.. eoto Sctottif  tad - Intel  -ueht  of edmlej... to or dbacherge.
fron hoepIltle dlivIde by the .u.he on f hede.
POPMATION ANt Dc VI10a STATISTICS
TotelPrlalc   ndYa(can)-hA. of July 1: 196l, 1970, end 1979                                 HItfiult
data.                                                               Averent Once of cougeholdl (ceroof   oar  outobld) -. chc.ohnndtnl
Ocher  .poclanlon (rer..nt oIftotael) - ratio of other to Itonl populatIon:                       A Aocodcnlnao      ru   fIdllui                          hr   ,itll "uIte",
differart defiotiona of oche  a-te  napyffect  -cpe...boliny of data                           sod th!heIrnei  AeO           hoader or icdte- ty orecy nobetlddI
196c0ttit  Ot, 1970,..ad 199 date                                                     the h-oebnd  Iot etu-i-tt-  punponen.
~Ponluo     nfe  100 . Corr.ect popolettot-P-ojactl-v   eahed c-1980                            he   f  eeoepe   oo   t  l  urha, and yoI occurtd coneooe
octal1 populatio  by ago sod acInd I tt   onitnd    frhltyute                                doeloa   epeovt.Delinge   oldto-eeoettotteat
to   Ie     eteoy en bIrth ioceecetng anth coun.try'. per  epitta  nro.e                   oAIce. to Iltr-lcloy  (percent of doellli-)- toal  or ,n end rura.l-
leel  an  fenal  lIf  enen y  -nbili:,iog at 77.5 fe-re.  The pave-                          Coorloldelng    lhreottylvlvn    uresc
earer  for  ermI cy ctt, ale  have cArte    1  .er ...aueng decln  it                   of total, oyhe, und rotl I-eelil...cearen-vtly.
nch coonty Iaotcaelodoeo h,e,enclo  I-bi-neolor  of Inrtelltoy                           nICATION
so Ifrtillty tnndeIfor- projecIon poroe.Alte   ooleoltn
tnuclorrr roriatlon-o  a trt lney  poplentIr chero It .. troehntat.c                 _tcrvehci-f totu. tale ad fetal e-Oo                   t r1, ault end fetle
thehlrthrce  leequ  t to  bhodaethrere, aodaenvnegeth           coer-etolleatfaIlegeaIftrhey Itt                                    evl.pycree   f  ..nPec`i-
-alnt ..cenato.  Thie Ia ehtlevtd coly Iercfrltyrtedolet                                         rtr   cclaeppetoe  cornlfy  nlnclda  childre  eged A-li
the neplev.eneo  ln-r  of  nIt neI rProduction  rae   h n eac   ge irano                       yrar- hot  djutred for dffen-t lengtht of pteapeucn on  fto
of tner  uyl.tn   otel  nuertY.  lOThteuionry pcottl   .te  ou                            out oeco  onr            Itu  ndotorenLI.tt coY nt'd I00 pet-ro
eat=td on th     Ieu   f the rr,aJced obahc.e...       ce  f the poolortlc  tote pol'la ay  heo                            lolhoethe oPfficIl e"hoo.. age.
Ic the year dOll, a-d the cane of decl ine of (-milit -yne no yepliee-                       SecondI, arehto1 - roo1, tale end ftele - C-a-eponod         b-he;tt-odaty
fec...etlonert ooIro  In   -ethd - OTthe uOo yen               truy   optitt-                      roide  Aner   Iootri  ort rechecrralrtrg irent-ttione  for' pupk
n,.ice Se  h.eereuhed.                                                                            ...ally of 12 to 17 caere I c    .; a  ge ..orep-od-eoev ruetgnral
Pere. kt. - Mid-py-  pocolerir net t             kiy l--nne  (ifl h--tre) of                    fVcatione eI rileno  (ceret   ofcoodr) - Ootloal                  rou  lo
renal   et; ~19A0, 197  ard  7197  dune.                                                        Include  ehncl         Ioca, o  other,enrt  hnOvA  .pe..t  Indecard-
fes.aa clr  tlnovllnd -ICnrpund e. totv   fvogrcinrieod                                  eolcudprnttevfeec-tdurylon toe
only:, 1000, 1970 and 199  et.                                                                uvl-teach-rcatoc-rceo  enTeodey-orl etevt    tiled tn
PouatrhsSrcueIrot)- Child-a  (0-lu yeare) , occklog-de (15-                                         prtitat  Ard  crordey lerel  dtFed byohesfcehreIthe
A4 peer), and retired 765 Y-ar  cod ove) ac p-renougne of  ld-peer cp.o-                          correspoodlnglae
letr  IA,1970, and 1979 dote.                                                                  hdul  leareelrrtt1-Ltraeaoelhaccre   n   tlt
tevincc Orcoch haef  (cecoco   -...i cta  gct  r.te.I f torol end-                              a      Pce-e-ge  of coon  edut poPonI-oo aged 15 yeare crdoer
ye-   ouecr  for 1950-Al, 1960-7D, erd 1970-79.
pcvulorlco Oronch hae (vercav_tL- -rhec-honul growth r-tre or orben ~po-                     COtNSUMPtTION
latlcre for 1950-Al. 1900-70, end 1970-79.                                                   P.esee-a  Care (ceo Ihaun ..d rclcol-Peacege-  -er  conylse  ct
Crude Irtth tate (Par choovend) - Atual lore bihlrt  per  h..... d vf ted-year                     I.ree.etirg l... that elebo PereoI; cooude behle-ce  hteerace end
Pcpolarlco: 1960. 1070, cod 1979 data.                                                           liltery vehicle..
Crudeetetit.ott(per hcotad1  -..o.. Id-ohe per thc...e.dt vf end-peat                 tadi. Reeiver  (ret lbh....rd r-coleto)-Altpto   nec  f-t rcdl
Ppopoltco-  1960. 1970, end 1979 dana                                                            .. hodceIsngae           bl riI  per ohoad o     P-oc LnIc;  t    t   n
Iroec tatroocotco Oe A--vcge ..she o.   f daoghtteys  no oe.illl beer In. f.ice..eed r-elcer  In ocococed to peace oh-rcgloe Io    f rado
tIclboy  atee.; .e.. lipIe-ea  urgee codIng In 196, 1970, and 1979.                            ron    Ioete  abvI ehad  Ire. ne1t
Paully   , rlcrne-coorro  havea  (oh ....de) -onAl r.onh. er vf  .o.aptoy,I' R-celvee(e  ohoreed rrlto(-T   eecr  fo  .roedIIc  to
ofblh-otodeleooccep_cso  ntce  feIellp plann.ing prgye                                         genocal publIcproeenpafeco eId                   otr 1-ee               - 1ceelve
of ottid-herlon cge (1 -to -or) 'h.  c  bitch-co-tyn  dances no                Nteararer C-1lrco ittcr(ta  thoosned  rrltc)- Shnce the -rerge If0-
alltapldIn.c  tcotae   gop.                                                                     Ioalo     f i"dai  general.  ..r ..eree  . eP"p""'' defInd   IuaPr iodiou
pohliteti-r de-ocd polvarlp to cetodlor nnceoa1 Iece.  It te oc..eidoe-d
FOCI                                                                                                  Ib.If0159  cP  "debly" if icerpeuentletfortInsath
Iodeo of PordProductIon cr Cepote (190-Pi-IOC) -Indeo of Per -aplcuc...o.        Cinem  hA e1 Attendance vet CoIn  cur yer-etd In the cober of
prdocotro of ci  food -ottdilIen.  P-cd-tliceo-odeeeetd and Ottd cod                          n icken  told durIng rhe feor, iInlding odalent..e to drlr-i.It-oloc
It  r  alrdryertel.    owodootcotrpotacyeod   (cc   .ouneraendohlof
teccI     cije)   dc en         t cod.uoltvo cltachoo--y_lhbeedoIn                         LABfOR FPCE
ratlvnal average croroec orlceeelgbne: 16-5, lOP,7 nd197   oe                    TntL1 Lehc.     reb  noete    E-Ifcrcicel c1 roprer, toloio
per dopi.  Ave liatlecodn   lt  oroe  daiecoc-prhdrolo196npoct  itdnncerrhe   9(,17   rd17   ua
Iendgco  nti-clbovo  of toololr.anId         lome-0  ecet  ocateIten  eecr rny%wre  adgu cPprcron  o  cto -br oIc;OSO
pooebod.  Aeonll b196-S         -p7 od  97 dneco.                                            1970 urd..  1979ble d90e 190tda.7
Per ccnte  orplfof prtoor arautper dd  - Potet  cotort ofprcpfo                 Pr lato   ee(ecet     oe,  aele, co  fenale-Pto                          ndtclro
retcrlyofe rdoperday P           . Set -orl py.1forditol -defIne   en aoot It-               acIIyrteeecaeoda   oa,tl. d tatl  lbrfooa
horld ford  o-cr; 1 961-05, 1970,  cvd 1977 deou.                                            to,  ten toto  lety fc
Pe cr -acol torl  fcoa ucra   ndvoe -dPoco  eRpyoffo   ,-                                                                                                    I
rIced fva urlalt an  polee  In nynt yendep;IfI-A,  97  anb17  ane.                 _ISlfIn, trlptI                                                  O
_redOt  d Icoe thenylfnbrn  1960,t197  or  1575  nda.                                          ofS -.IfIIcoarIholde.           1    1
et-bi Fb; 1900, 170av 197965    SM- 1a9a.   7aod tehtoo-1h torrpoto  otOco-drcl cutr
of          i age perng..   ptI--    91-5   17 -hoo1977live   Irths.OhIEol pI ceRIBM ON                         co    nlI  hnIce   rolblco'c                         fe
httnet o Saltflarro(peroro of ppolattr)- toAl,-  cc-hc an  cpca  - 1.. lOon         cocccclydro                It        i   Lh anrdto inda o --fo   correo- t by ro
eonoectatrIo 4        c   hildecrin Ihiceb gee  ecten-     ndoniapnla  at                      cociIreberichesyvty2 oce  're   uOr-hd of-derg porI 4apt a
I",ret  yreerpe  ioer   c   oe  io20ect.frnc.c..tp.h                                             lve  clotg edjunete    Ic hIghe  coup of" Itln   IocerO n
coruldered ael he9ng cOtd 1979                                                                  - acceo  ta  hue.I  cc.    In eic d PooaI... 001ccd a 1hoot I idrc  Orcone LecelZ II eet      ce
Ir,eaane    Iten  coud       rp            ..a.r I b dote thf oc  icehet ofd. nba  c y...i    aIindtocl   Prot1.ec  vOt poriclc I-hdur   ua)  h1r cob
dofo  hevttohaptIrdbndlnprcpocrlcoatoI covtoeythrdayliofroob-1IIIlhogobeftn
fN-a..ly' ceeeoe--oeedt.-, prtir
lay Irenefllerlodra:.-~y    I .                                                                                                                 Mato EiitIl ...  b     n     -
Porlalo  cc  Pnccte  -Poolato  dvied  r  orer  f  retlongph-I
Pcruialon re  Sorone Ptcco - Ppolecoc dnrdedIb Inon- r o  prIo                                                           U,.IoIre--df..
ealecoteuaiercdoatroroet.pcaccccltote,n         henlsna yocorase.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980:                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in.constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln      %        1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979  1980
GNP at Market Prices            22,461    100.0          6.4      7.8      7.6   6.2   9.2   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment        6,690      29.8         6.7      9.6    20.8   7.5  11.1  18.2
Gross National Saving            6,443      28.7          .         .
Exports of Goods, NFS           13,996      62.3         6.0      8.0      4.5   7.4  14.0   3.7
Import:s of Goods, NFS          13,295      59.2         2.9      7.3    15.1  12.4  20.0  16.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 /a
Output              Employment        Output Per Worker
US$ Mln      %          Mln      %          US$          %
Agriculture              2,792      24.6         2.1    41.2        1,351       60.5
Industry                 3,657      32.2         1.2    23.5        3,035      136.0
Services                 4,920      43.2         1.8    35.3        2,701      121.0
Total/Average       11,369    100.0          5.1   100.0        2,232      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
MS Mln                       % of GDP
1980          1980        1971-75         1976-80
Current Receipts                  16,371         31.9           24.0            29.1
Current Expenditures              15,615         30.4           22.5            26.4
Public Authorities Surplus           291          0.6            0.8             1.0
Current Surplus                    1,047          2.0            2.3             3.7
Development Expenditures           9,596         18.7           10.8            14.2
Foreign Borrowing (net)            1,590          3.1            2.3             2.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES         1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976   1977    1978    1979    1980
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money           4,124  4,668  5,762  7,552  8,714  9,982  12,748  14,819  17,467  21,663  27,648
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                          957  1,174  1,357  1,652  1,999  2,600   3,321   4,006   3,765   4,585   5,646
Bank Credit to Private
Sec-tor                       2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278  6,077   7,511   9,008  11,844  15,311  20,823
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                    33.9   36.0   40.5   40.3   38.1   44.7    45.4    45.8    48.2    49.0    53.8
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                  101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8  144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3   180.1
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index              1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4    4.5        2.6     4.8      4.9      3.6     7.0
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                         -8.4   22.7   15.6   21.7   21.0   30.1    27.7    20.6    -6.0    21.8    23.1
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                         21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1   15.1    23.6    19.9    31.5    29.3    36.0
/a In 1970 prices.
not applicable
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 25 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1978   1979   1980    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-80)
(US$ million)                   (US$ Million)
Exports f.o.b.                  7,658 10,948  12,819   Rubber                      1,924    18.3
Imports f.o.b.                  6,035  7,902  10,699   Timber                      1,626    15.4
Nonfactor Services (net)         -784 -1,021  -1,397   Petroleum                   1,994    18.9
Resource Gap (deficit)            839  2,025      723   Tin                        1,037      9.8
Factor Services (net)            -730   -759    -911   Palm Oil                    1,052    10.0
Net Transfers                     -37    -54      -56   All Other Commodities    2,899    27.5
Balance on Current Account        144  1,212    -244
Total               10,532   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         490    668      910
Net MLT Borrowing Ja
Disbursements                 1,473  1,334   1,038   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Amortization                    858    587      398
Subtotal                        615    747      640                                    US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i                -502    469  -1,322   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   4,696
Increase in Reserves (-)         -459   -672    -472   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   4,696
International Reserves          3,243  3,915   4,387
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                     %
Imports                         665    942   1,504
Exports                       1,060  1,981   3,111   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          2.3
Of which:  Crude Petro-                             Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum          1,017  1,922   3,022   Total Outstanding & Disbursed         2.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31,)1982)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed            587.39
1971              3.05           0.33               Undisbursed                        510.43
1972              2.82           0.35               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,097.82
1973              2.44           0.41
1974              2.41           0.41
1975              2.40           0.42
1976              2.54           0.39
1977              2.46           0.41
1978              2.32           0.43
1979              2.19           0.46
1980              2.22           0.45
/a Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1982)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose                       Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-three loans fully disbursed                              454.97
880     1973   Malaysia          Population                     5.00       0.22
931     1973   Malaysia          Highway (II)                  19.50       2.78
973     1974   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    45.00        19.27
974     1974   Malaysia          Education (III)               19.00       6.49
1044     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement               36.00      10.44
1115     1975   Malaysia          Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50       4.33
1178     1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                   32.00       2.41
1213     1976   Malaysia          Sewerage                      21.50       8.55
1214     1976   Malaysia          Urban Transport (II)          26.00       7.28
1294     1976   Malaysia          Rural Development             21.00       7.54
1329     1976   Malaysia          Education (IV)                35.00      18.79
1376     1977   Malaysia          Highway (III)                 35.00      13.67
1443     1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                  22.00       4.65
1444     1977   Malaysia          Irrigation                    39.00      24.13
1493     1978   Malaysia          National Extension            19.00      14.36
1522     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.00        16.12
1580     1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                    13.00       4.15
1590     1978   Malaysia          Land Settlement               28.00      25.52
1608     1978   Malaysia          Population (II)               17.00      14.79
1618     1978   Malaysia          Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50        13.56
1632     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.50        17.73
1657     1979   Malaysia          Education (V)                 38.00      27.39
1717     1979   Malaysia          Irrigation                    31.00      23.72
1808     1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX                      50.00      41.61
1899     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Development       25.00      23.94
1900     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Credit            30.00      30.00
1957     1981   Malaysia          Rompin-Endau                  40.00      40.00
Area Development
1960     1981   Malaysia          Trans-Perak
Area Development              50.00      50.00
2013     1981   Malaysia          Felcra                        37.00      37.00
Total loans (less cancellations)                   1,281.47
of which has been repaid                           180.53
Total now outstanding                              1,100.94
Amohnt sold                                43.89
of which has been repaid                 40.77       3.12
Total loans now held by Bank                       1,097.82
Total undisbursed                                               510.43



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1982)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year                                         business        Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing         -     1.31       1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                      Cement          1.28      0.28      1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel           2.45      1.01      3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel              -     0.23       0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.          Textiles        1.25     0.25       1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing         -     0.63       0.63
Total gross commitment                                4.98      3.71       8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                    4.09      3.46      7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC                     0.89      0.25       1.14
Total undisbursed                                         -



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 967  Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 31, 1974; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1982
The project consists of clearance of about 33,600 ha of land and
planting of 26,200 ha of oil palm, construction of 5 palm oil mills, 8
villages, access roads; power and water facilities and settlement of about
7,000 families. The project is fully disbursed and the Project Completion
Report is being prepared. About 31,100 ha of oil palm have been planted
(118% of appraisal estimate) and 5,940 families have entered the schemes.
Major project works are nearing completion and project performance has been
generally satisfactory. Total project costs at $163 million exceed
appraisal estimates by 80%. However, the economic rate of return is
expected to be favorable because increase in commodity prices should more
than offset the increased costs.
Loan No. 1044  Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 25,500 ha of land and
planting and maintenance of about 22,300 ha of oil palm; construction of
three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families. The project is progressing satisfactorily. About 21,000 ha
of oil palm or 95% of appraisal target had been planted by December 1981 and
the third and last palm oil mill financed under the project is expected to
be completed in September 1982. However, there is considerable delay in
settler entry due to delays in provision of water supply by the Public Works
Department (JKR).  Disbursements are 70% of appraisal target.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen MARDI's research
programs and to establish an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of
Agriculture. The project was restructured in mid-1979 and the focus was
changed from commodity specific research to include all broad-based research
programs of the Research Institute. Subsequently, the loan was reduced from
US$28.5 million to US$20.5 million involving reductions in the use of consul-
tants, livestock, equipment and civil works components. The project is now
progressing satisfactorily, but recruitment of consultants has remained a
problem, as MARDI has decided against any long-term appointments. In order
to build a more effective link between research and extension and to improve
the transfer of new technology to farmers, MARDI and DOA have recently
agreed to work more closely. After a long delay, the construction of ELU's
office complex and installation of the ELU and DOA computers are underway.
Disbursements are in line with the reappraisal target but there has been
some reallocation of proceeds, in particular, the agreement with the Bank to
finance a metabolism unit and controlled environment facilities.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/
state relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the
main constraints are (a) the inability to fill operative level posts due to
the shortage of trained staff and the temporary status of posts; and (b) the
inability of the Public Works Department to prepare timely civil works
designs. Hiring of operative level staff will improve significantly in
Peninsular Malaysia in 1982 because of the increase of graduates specialized
in agriculture; however it will continue to be a major problem in Sabah and
Sarawak. Civil works construction is expected to show considerable
improvement in Peninsular Malaysia. Progress is satisfactory in Sarawak and
improving in Sabah.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Progress has been slow due mainly to delays in forest clearance
and land release in some areas of Pahang State. In January 1982, Bank
agreed to FELDA's request to replace the problem areas and change the crop
mix. The project now consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of
21,000 ha of rubber, 8,000 ha of oil palm and 800 ha of cocoa; settlement of
7,200 smallholders; and construction of necessary housing and infrastructure
facilities. FELDA plans to accelerate the project implementation rate to



- 30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
complete all plantings by late 1984 in line with appraisal estimates. About
13,800 ha have been planted to date against the appraisal target of 29,100
ha, but disbursements to December 1981 were only $2.5 million against the
appraisal target of $16 million.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date:  February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 16,400 ha of
traditional coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, and fruits; new
planting and replanting of about 6,900 ha with hybrid coconuts and
associated cash crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the
importation of about 6,600 crossbred dairy animals for the development of
about 3,350 integrated dairy and beef operations in coconut areas; and the
strengthening of support services for crop and dairy production. The crop
component is progressing with uneven performance; rehabilitation is ahead of
schedule while replanting is considerably behind schedule. At the end of
June 1981, 9,400 farmers had received assistance to rehabilitate 8,500 ha
(117% of appraisal estimates) and replant 1,900 ha (62% of appraisal
estimates). In the future progress is projected to slow down due to the low
prices of cocoa and coconut. The dairy/beef component is about 2 years
behind schedule because of the delay in establishing a cattle holding
center. Only when the center is established, import of heifers will
commence. The first shipment will consist of heifers purchased and raised
in New Zealand for about one year.
Loan No. 1899 Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of December 1, 1980; Effective Date: June 2, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project will provide assistance to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR
land settlement schemes to complete development of their holdings and to
replant or rehabilitate existing crops. About 1,800 families will be
settled to develop landholdings on the schemes. About 11,300 ha of
rubber will be planted, 5,700 ha rehabilitated and 2,800 ha replanted, and
1,200 ha of orchard rehabilitated. With the exception of settlers' housing,
implementation of the project is behind schedule. Progress of planting and
replanting have been delayed due to insufficient supply of planting material
and delays in construction of farm roads.  RISDA's extension unit has been
established but is not yet operating in the project area. TAKDIR still lacks
the necessary managerial and implementation capacity and requires considerable
strengthening.



- 31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1900 Rural Credit Project; US$30.0 Million Loan of December 1, 1980;
Effective Date: June 2, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project was designed to support the expansion of Bank Pertanian
Malaysia's (BPM) portfolio of agricultural production credits, and term loans
for rural development and agricultural production; and provide assistance to
expand BPM's branch network, to improve its financial management and planning
function and to develop its staff training program. The project includes a
large credit component for smallholder loans up to 15 years, depending on
crops, at interest 1.5% above prime rate.
Loan No. 2013 FELCRA I Project; US$37.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1981;
Effective Date: March 10, 1982; Clsing Date: December 31,
1986
The project would finance the fringe area and rehabilitation scheme
elements of FELCRA's tree crop program for the Fourth Plan Period (1981-85),
extending to a total 34,000 ha. It includes the development of about 50
proposed fringe schemes and rehabilitation of about 40 existing unassisted
land development schemes and provision of two palm oil mills. Although behind
schedule, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Land develop-
ment is underway in 14 schemes, and construction of palm oil mills and
procurement of equipment for both the mills are also underway.
Loan No. 973 Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in a tree crop
area of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an
integrated agricultural development program to introduce intercropping and
other changes in cropping patterns, construction of farmers' development
centers, and improvements in research and extension. All civil works have
either been completed or started and expect to be completed by end-1983,
except for the farm roads which would be completed by 1985. The pace of
agricultural development, initially slow, has now improved.  The Government
has formulated an action program to accelerate the agricultural development
component. Consultants will be engaged to assist the Government in the
preparation of the Phase II of the project.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km
of rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers' development centers; and estab-
lishment of agricultural extension services. Problems related to land
acquisition, staffing and limited construction capability which initially
delayed implementation of civil works have been largely overcome. Most
project components should be completed by end-1983, some three years behind
schedule. Agricultural support services have been established and are
working well.
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems
with a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout
Malaysia; technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equip-
ment and a completed feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation
project (Loan 1957-MA). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and
work should be completed Dy end-1983. Of the 195 proposed schemes to be
implemented under the project, 84 schemes have been either rejected or
deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 16 new schemes have been
added. The revised number of schemes proposed under the project is now 127,
covering about 42,000 ha, all of which have been approved by the Bank for
inclusion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and
Evaluation Team. Construction of 39 schemes had been completed and 73
schemes are under construction.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of an irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage works for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but now significant progress has been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. Draft agricultural
services operation and irrigation O&M manuals have been prepared. The
project is expected to be completed by mid-1985, about two and a half years
behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensified agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in



- 33 -             ~~~ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
the state of Perak. Due to initial staff shortages and continuing delays in
land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of 1985,
some two years behind the appraisal estimate, but those difficulties have
been largely overcome and progress is more satisfactory. Total cost of the
project is now estimated at US$115 million, up about 92% from the appraisal
level of US$60 million. The substantial cost increase was due to the high
inflation rate in the construction sector and some increase in work
quantities.
Loan No. 1717  Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, where the storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project (Loan
434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary irri-
gation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement
of operation and maintenance facilities, and drainage and coastal protection
works serving the entire 98,000 ha area. Project completion is now expected
by end-1985, as compared to end-1983 at appraisal. Implementation was
initially hampered by delays in land acquisition, the nationwide lack of
contractors due to the booming construction sector and the need for
retenders due to high bid prices, but these problems have been largely
overcome and implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Total project
costs have increased to US$100 million, about 45% higher than the appraisal
estimate of US$69 million.
Loan 1957 Rompin-Endau Area Development Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project is designed to provide for construction of irrigation
works and development of new land for double cropping for rice on about
11,400 ha in four subprojects along the Rompin, Pontian, and Anak Endau
rivers in southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia
and for housing and social facilities for about 4,750 settler families. The
Project Manager was appointed on December 21, 1981. Overall project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily but delay in appointing
consultants has delayed land clearing operations by up to 12 months.



- 34 -                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Loan 1960 Trans-Perak Area Development Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 23, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would provide for development of 13,600 ha of new land
for rice and treecrops, and rehabilitation of 4,900 ha of existing rice land
in Perak State.  It would also include roads, housing, community facilities,
palm oil and cocoa mills, and supporting services for agriculture and com-
munity development for about 6,900 settler families, presently landless or
cultivating uneconomic-sized holdings in Perak and other states.  The
Project Coordinator was appointed on November 16, 1981. Implementation of
the rice develpment and rehabilitation components is progressing
satisfactorily but some construction works are behind schedule due to DID
staffing constraints. Part of the treecrop development has also been
delayed by contractor and drainage problems.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project includes seven secondary schools, one junior college,
four teacher training colleges, one polytechnic institute, and educational
radio and television facilities. Project implementation is about two and half
years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design and
tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor. Construction of about 80% of project locations has
been completed, and the remaining works are expected to be completed by June
1982.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction
of approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project
total) is satisfactory. About 75% of the primary schools have been
completed; the remaining project items are under construction and are
expected to be completed in mid-1983. The delay is related to rural project
locations, land acquisition and shortages of building material. At
Government request, a one year extension of the closing date is planned.



-35 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
tional training. Implementation performance is good (of 76 planned secondary
schools 13% have been completed an about 43% are under construction), and
overall the project is being implemented on schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date:  March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project consists of extension of the Prai Thermal Power
Station, installation of 132 kV transmission line from Majadee switching
station to Kota Tinggi, and extension of 11 kv distribution system to two
rural areas. Extension of Prai Power Station is now completed except for
the remaining retention payments. Due to savings in project cost, the loan
amount was reduced to US$32.0 million.
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project consists of construction, supply and implementation
of oil-fired thermal power station at Pasir Gudang, and supply and installa-
tion of transmission facilities. The first unit at the Pasir Gudang Thermal
Power Station was synchronized in January 1982, which was 6 months behind
schedule. The commission date for the second unit is planned for September
1982. It is planned to extend the closing date by about one year.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project consists of construction of two dams and hydroelectric
power stations in upper reaches of Perak River, supply and installation of
associated transmission and substation facilities and, energy sector
development study. Most contracts have already been awarded. The project
is behind schedule by about two months due to delays in structural



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
steelwork, however, the completion date will not be affected. A saving of
about US$8.0 million is expected in the loan amount, due to lower cost of
awarded contracts.
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year masterplan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area.  It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing
satisfactorily. Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have
created serious problems, some of which still persist. Sewerage surcharges
on water bills were instituted after considerable delayv. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about three years behind the appraisal
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and
East Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region
of North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project is virtually complete except for a one mile bypass of
Batu Caves, a northern suburb of Kuala Lumpur, where construction has been
held up due to a squatter removal problem which is still unresolved. The
Government intends to complete this work later using its own funds. All
studies have been completed. After settlement of contractual claims, which
are being assessed, about US$0.5 million of the loan will remain undisbursed
and will be cancelled.



- 37 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and con-
sultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
Overall, the project is about 80% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in
September 1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is
completed. Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one is 90%
complete and the second is 33% complete. The work on both sections has
ceased since the beginning of 1982 due to severe financial difficulties
faced by the contractor. Consequently, project completion will be delayed
by over a year. Government is considering whether to call new bids to
complete the works.
Satisfactory progress has been made with Road Upgrading Program
and in establishing the road maintenance organization in Sabah and equipment
has been procured, but execution of Road Maintenance Program is limited by
inadequate funding and Government is considering supplementary budgeting.
Setting up road maintenance sections in three pilot states in Peninsular
Malaysia has been completed. The Pavement Strengthening Program in the
three pilot states will be completed in mid-1982 and is being extended to
other states. The urban study of Kota Kinabalu in Sabah and the
transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia have been completed. The
Closing Date is likely to require extension by about 18 months.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth; and
(c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports Authority (SPA) by providing
technical assistance and staff training. Civil works commenced in December
1979 and are about 80% completed. Traffic for 1981 was more than forecast
but SPA-s cash flow position is deteriorating because there have been no
tariff adjustments to rising costs of port operations and required port
expansion. Tariff increases have been proposed by SPA. Management
consultants completed work and submitted their draft final report in January
1982.



-38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Due to delays experienced during the early stages of design and
construction, the Project is now expected to be completed by December 1982,
14 months later than anticipated at the time of appraisal. Most of the
facilities, however, will be available for use by mid-1982. Construction
costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project execution,
combined with rapid inflation.
POPULATION
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for
the improvement of maternal and child health.
Implementation of this project has been slow, due partly to staff
turnovers in the implementing agencies, and to planning delays concerning
several of the larger construction facilities. As of September 30, 1981,
145 sites out of 200 facilities under the project had been acquired and 64
of these were either completed or are undei- construction. Progress in the
procurement, training, research, evaluation, the civil works component in
Sarawak, and women's development program activities under the Ministry of
Agriculture are all satisfactory. The National Family Planning Board, in
collaboration with other implementing agencies, has completed the opera-
tional manual. Recently, a base-line project evaluation has been completed;
the data are being analyzed.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primar-
ily concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approa-
ches to residential development for low-income families. The main components



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
are: (a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced
plots for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure
services for existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support
traffic management and transport planning, to prepare an urban development
project for Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs.
The major problems encountered during project implementation,
besides delays in construction, were reluctance of the Government to pursue
public transport policy measures and disagreements between the Bank and the
Government relating to policy issues on the Sites and Services component.
At the time of the earlier closing date of the loan - June 30, 1981
sufficient improvements had been made in the public transport capacity and
coordination among concerned agencies, the level of staffing in the Traffic
Management Department (TMD) and in the hiring of foreign traffic consultants
to assist in the training and advising of traffic engineering problems, to
warrant an extension of the loan closing date until December 31, 1982.
Civil works and traffic control equipment for the Traffic Management
Department - City Hall are nearly complete. The inner ring road has now
been opened to traffic. The Traffic Dispersal Scheme (Stage 1 with 2 lanes)
is expected to be completed by mid-1982. At the time of the earlier closing
date, the Bank and the Government agreed to cancel the Sites and Services
component of the project.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
MALACCA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to           16 months
prepare the project:
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   Ministry of Agriculture and
Malacca State Economic
Planning Unit
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        November 1979
Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                  May 1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                               September 12, 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations:            April 9, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         July 15, 1982
Section II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
The appointment of two key project staff, an accounting
officer and an economist, is a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 46).
Section III. Special Conditions
(a)  Government would submit, by June 30, 1982, the terms of
reference of consultants to be employed for carrying out the
studies on the usage of idle agricultural lands for the Bank's
review and comment (para. 37);
(b)  the implementing agencies would maintain separate project accounts
which would be collated by the Project Director; these accounts
would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
and forwarded to the Bank within nine months of the close of each
financial year (para. 44);



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) DID would prepare, on completion of final design, a designer's
operations manual covering major project works, (para. 48); and
the Project Director would (i) furnish the Bank, by December 31,
1982, proposals for coordinating and integrating the various
agencies' agricultural extension programs serving all groups of
farmers for review and comment, and (ii) prepare, by June 30,
1984, a manual detailing the operational roles of the various
agricultural agencies as a guide for field staff (para. 47);
(d) Government, prior to the importation, would make arrangements
for rearing facilities for dairy animals in one or more of its
DVS stations; and suitably train selected farmers in dairy
husbandry in one or more of its DVS training centers before
receiving these dairy animals (para. 49); and
(e) Government would furnish, by December 31, 1983, proposals for
monitoring and evaluation of the project for Bank's review and
comment (para. 54).



I



IBRD 18173
JIER,Lo      ,                                                                                                                      10215 E                                                                                                        102 30 E                         DECEMBER  E98
, -,THAILAND         .
Pe%ArNG     KtLANTENt>
ERAK
ELAr,s3R   -230 N                                                                                                 ,>               f                                                                                                                : 30), r,
SENELARANA-EARE
,_.L      o     P     MLK                                                        -  - .  -E-N--  -  A    E N R ES
E        '        23t;           6        B    1      I  I   3  1  1   IBIOM                                                                                                                                                        _
-2l5N  /0fXAtt//,,g.munI  t)JO HORE 21'
0      1    LA  3         '  CA  AG  Rl  CU  L                TURALES                                                              \f                                                               /                    C '            M  
12t0S E                                                                                                       125E~~~' 
t <: 1 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EV DR                                                                                                           ING ARE --/> {!T    A    N  rQ//_
MAAC    AGRICULTURAL MCAIAIt N   ltITBUDRE    w 'jS.. Rma'a JaKlIl_
NEWXTRRNSION SRlIGCHENTESROADS _ev.>4tm7 g|{ '
AGRILKCULTRLMECHNZTION   CEND                   E       DI_STRITE BOUNDARIES  t ;~ .....................t
0 1 23   4   S   6   7   3  9  10  11  12  13  14  IS  16 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                               ,_             >
' i                3     A      5     6            i            6910 1MALES a b dWO .St1 . '. t   "hv\Al/o;v/fwr
102- 00' E                                                                                                    12'115' E                                          .  - o UAtwee                                                10      E_



