OFFICIAL
LOAN NMBER 2147 MA
Loan Agreement
(Malacca Agricultural Development Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2147 NA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    7)   y          , 1982, between MALAYSIA
(hereinafter called the .Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions  Applicable   to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DID" means the Borrower's Drainage and Irrigation
Department; and
(b)  "DVS" means the Borrower's Department of Veterinary
Services.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million four hundred thousand dollars ($25,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeZs of the Loan shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptl) notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to three
hunred seventy-five thousand three hundred sixty-nine dollars
($375,369). The fee shall be payable in such currency, or curren-
cies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall
not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required for the full pay-
mert of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for the
purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan 'withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, administrative, financial and dairy
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as


﻿-3-
needed, the funds including funds for operations maintenance and
recurrent agricultural services, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04 (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications        thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Upon the aw&rd by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits aerived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by
December 31, 1983, proposal for the monitoring and evaluation of
the Project for the Bank's review and comment.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause: (a) DID to prepar.!,
on the completion of the final design, a designer's operations
manual covering the major works under the Project; and (b) the
Project Director: (i) to furnish the Bank, by December 31, 1982,
with proposals for coordinating and integrating the various
agencies' agricultural extension programs serving all groups of
farmers for Bank's review and comment; and (ii) to prepare, by
June 30, 1984, a manual detailing the operational roles of the
various agricultural agencies as a guide for field staff.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take ali necessary measures
satisfacatory to the Bank to: (i) provide :earing facilities
for dairy animals in one or more of its DVS srations; and (ii)
train selected farmers, before receiving these animals, in dairy
husbandry at one or more of its DVS training centers.


﻿-5-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by
June 30, 1982, terms of reference of consultants to be employed
for carrying out studies on the usage of idle agricultural lands
for the Bank's review and comment.
Section 3.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate staff
positions required for the proper carrying out and, thereafter,
operation and maintenance of the Project are duly established as
and when needed and that qualified staff are appointed in a
timely manner to fill said positions.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit -of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date-


﻿-6-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subsidivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing: (i) separate accounts for the Project; and
(ii) separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure;
(b) cause the Project Director to (i) collate the separate
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c) retain, or cause to be retained, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and to enable
tte Bank's representatives to examine such records;
(d) have the separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section and related financial statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(e) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of financial
statements for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate opinion by said auditors:
(A) on the separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section; and (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, as to whether the
proceeds of the Loan made available to it and withdrawn from the


﻿-7-
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(f) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank such
other information concerning said separate accounts, financial
statements, records and expenditures, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that an accounting officer and an economist are appointed
to assist the Project Director.
Section 5.02. The date         // //3, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Sectione12.04  f the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower or such person or persons as such
Minister or Deputy Minister shall authorize in writing is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Kuala Lumpur 01-01
Malaysia
Cable address:                     Telex:
TREASURY                          MA 30242
Kuala Lumpur


﻿For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MALAYSIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               6,000,000         56%
(2) Rubber replanting        13,000,000         56%
ard maintenance
(3) Equipment,                1,700,000         100% of foreign
vehicles and                               e penditures,
materials                                   100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory),
and 80% of local
expenditures
for imported
items procured
locally
(4) Livestock                 2,100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Consultancy               1,200,000         100%
services and
overseas
training
(6) Fee                         375,369         Amount due
(7) Unallocated               1,024,631
TOTAL              25,400,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been   calculated  in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000 may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of
payments made for such expenditures befoa_e that date but after
October 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 11 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   9mallholder   Rubber   Development:   replanting    with
improved clonal materials of about 9,000 ha of old, low
yielding rubber; maintenance through tapping maturity
of about 5,300 ha of rubber replanted in the years
1976-81; assistance in planting of new rubber totalling
about 320 ha; development of 48 ha bf a new rubber
nursery; and construction of 72 group rubber processing
centers, 3 smokehouses and central storage facilities.
Part B:   Infrastructure Development: construction of a new irri-
gation scheme for about 66 ha of padi and improvements
to five existing irrigation schemes serving about 1,850
ha; improvement of nine drainage works and river chan-
nels serving about 2,500 ha of padi; and construction
of farm and access roads totalling about 140 km.
Part C:   Crop Development Programs: establishment of a padi seed
multiplication program; planting of about 380 ha per
annum of various cash crops; rehabilitation of small-
holder orchards and backyard fruit lots totalling about
810 ha; and implementation of pilot schemes covering
160 ha of fragmented idle agricultural lands for
perennial crops.
Part D:   Dairy and Fisheries Development Programs: distribution
of 2,500 crossbred dairy heifers to 1,000 new and 500
existing dairy farmers; establishment of about 250 ha
of on-farm fodder grass production; construction and
equipping of a milk collection center handling up to
1,350 liters of milk per day; and construction and
stocking of about 260 ha of freshwater fish ponds.
Part E:   Consultancy Services and Overseas Training:
For   studies,   detailed   design   and   construction
supervision of the Project works and overseas staff
training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Fayment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March I and September 1
beginning September 1, 1985
through   September 1, 1996                 1,060,000
On March 1, 1997                                 1,020,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiuns on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                2,30%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                               4.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               8.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                               10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              11.60%


﻿- 15 -
SCUEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance wnth the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malaysia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Malaysia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Malaysia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 17 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost not more than
the equivalent of $2,500,000 each and vehicles bid packages
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 each and
the equivalent of $600,000 in the aggregate may be procured in
accordance with competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to
the Bank after local advertisement. To the extent practicable
such works shall be grouped in appropriate bid packages to
attract capable contractors.
2.   Off-the-shelf items estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $25,000 each and not more than the equivalent of
$100,000 in the aggregate may be procured in accordance with the
normal procuremeut procedures of the Borrower, satisfactory to
the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $2,500,000 or more; and contracts for
equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 18 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  7t    -day ofI       , 198 na.
FOR SECRETARY


