CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1524-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
RAJASTHAN DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 15, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 8, 1974)
US$1.00        =   Rs. 8.11
Rs. 1.00       =   US$0.123
Rs. 1 million = US$122,956
(The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed Pound
Sterling rate. As the Pound is now floating relative
to the US Dollar, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in the appraisal report
were made at US$1 to Rs. 8.00, which was the rate at
the time of the report's completion.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GO'ERNME    OF INDIA
FOR THE RAJASTHAN DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$27.7 million on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a project for providing dairy processing facili-
ties and developing an integrated dairying system in the State of Rajasthan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(402-IN, dated May 7, 1974) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1974. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size, diversity, and the extreme difficulty of its economic conditions.
India's economic policies and performance have their shortcomings, many of
which are attributable to the open political system, where the reconciliation
of conflicting political views tends to favor less than optimal economic
solutions; others are due to the sheer magnitude of the task facing the Govern-
ment. Governing a country divided into more than 20 states with a population
of some 580 million and over 60 languages is an extraordinary responsibility.
The country's poverty and poor natural resource endowment, supplemented by
a net transfer of external resources averaging in recent years well below
US$1 per head per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth.
Any judgment of India's economic performance must take these underlying cir-
cumstances into account. So, also, must account be taken of the uncertainties
imposed by the uncertain availability of water. A bad monsoon, which is in-
evitable from time to time, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy
and wipes out the results of years of effort.
4.        In the past 25 years, national income has grown at nearly 4% per
annum, which compares very favorably with the average annual growth rate of
less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. Population has also grown faster
in the past two decades than previously, but per capita income has neverthe-
less risen from. a more or less stagnant level in the first half of this
century to achieve an average growth of roughly 1% a year since independence.
5.        Progress has been impressive on many fronts but disappointing on
others and has all too often fallen short of India's massive needs. The
growth of the socia-economic infrastructure (transport, education, health
services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been achieved at high
cost and has yielded results of variable quality; many industrial and agri-
cultural investment schemes have been highly successful, but others have taken
excessively long to be completed and have operated well below full capacity;
in some regions of the country growth and structural change have been rapid



and compare favorably with developments in many other parts of the world,
but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly even decline.
Despite these improvements and although the distribution of income in India
is relatively even by comparison with many other countries, there has been
little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of the urban
and rural population. The Government has become increasingly concerned
about the plight of the lower income strata which, conservatively measured,
consist of some 200 million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head
per year, and has initiated in recent years a variety of programs specifically
designed to alleviate poverty.
6.        In broad terms, the structure of the economy has been slow to
change. Agriculture remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 43% of
national product in the early 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years
previously. The share of output contributed by the industrial sector has
increased only slowly and since the late 1960s has remained approximately
constant at a level of 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the com-
position of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one-third each compared with an overwhelming
preponderence of consumer goods production 25 years ago.
7.        The economic report contained a review of the immense difficulties
confronting the Indian economy as the Fourth Plan period drew to a close.
The final year of the Plan, 1973/74, witnessed a severe deterioration in
India's terms of trade which was led by, but by no means restricted to, the
dramatic increase in oil prices. The resulting balance of payments difficul-
ties were compounded by the need for food imports following the drought of
1972/73, in order to sustain the public distribution system on which the
poorest section of society is particularly dependent. Giveiu India's perva-
sively agricultural economy, the cdrought also had the effect of causing a
general slow-down in economic activity which was further aggravated bv
infrastructure constraints, particularly widespread power shortages and
labor problems of Indian Railways. Food shortages and other scarcities
touclied off an Lnprecedented inflationary spiral fueled by large budgetary
deficits whicil were at least partly attributable to mounting expenditures
for drought relief. The inflation in turn contributed to labor unrest while
efforts to cope witlh it through budgetary cuts affected, among other things,
the level of real expenditures for development programs.
8.        Thus, at the commencement of the Fifth Plan period (1974/75-1978/79)
the most urgent Lasks facing policy makers were:   to get agricultural pro-
duction moving again; to bring inflation under control; to reduce India's
dependence on oil imports by compressing energy consumption and by formulating
and implementing, programs to develop domestic energy sources; to boost export
earnings and to tap additional sources of aid in order to sustain imports;
ancl, finally, to maintain a minimum investment program so as to avoid economic
standstill in the longer run.   Even in the best of times, it would have been
nxtremely difficult to pursue simultaneously such a variety of potentially
inconsistent objectives.



-3-
9.        Events since the preparation of the last economic report provide
little encouragement. For the second time in the last three years, the weather
has let down India's farmers with the result that the kharif (fall) crop
recently harvested is believed to be considerably below last year's (about
60 million tons as compared with 67 million tons). The outlook for the next
rabi (spring) crop is uncertain in view of continuing shortages of power
for irrigation pumps and possible fertilizer shortages. The reduced avail-
ability of foodgrains, the depletion of official food stocks, India's
balance of payments difficulties, the inflationary setting and frequent
changes in the Government's food procurement policy have led to hoarding for
both speculative and insurance purposes. Procurement for public distribution
has become extremely difficult. The public kitchens established in some of
the worst-affected areas (Bihar, Bengal, Orissa) bear evidence of the serious-
ness of the situation as well as of the Government's determination to prevent
extreme hardship.
10.       The spectre of massive food import requirements hangs over an
already very difficult balance of payments situation in the current year.
The need for six to seven million tons of foodgrains imports appears evident,
and considerably more than half this amount either has been delivered
already or has been purchased. There is little evidence of a major break
in the prices of other commodities imported in substantial quantities by
India (e.g. oil, fertilizers, steel, non-ferrous metals, rock phosphate).
11.       One of the few bright spots in the balance of payments picture
has been the growth of export earnings. In 1973/74 export earnings recorded
an unprecedented increase of about 30% and there are indications of a similar
increase in the current year. While these increases - particularly that
in 1973/74 - are primarily attributable to unit value increases caused by
worldwide inflation, there is greater willingness to take advantage of
export opportunities, as illustrated most dramatically by the recent diversion
of sugar from domestic consumption to exports.
12.       Nevertheless, despite the increase in export earnings, India is
expected to run a massive trade deficit this year - probably of the order
of US$1,600 million as compared with US$795 million in 1973/74 and a negli-
gible one the previous year. Moreover, despite the magnitude of the current
deficit, it is unlikely that India's imports, excluding foodgrains, will
be as large in volume as in 1972/73. In addition to financing a trade
deficit of this order, India will have to meet debt service payments of about
US$730 million. These financing requirements will be partly offset through
Consortium assistance and USSR aid, which are together expected to reach
disbursement levels of about US$1,550 million in 1974/75 compared with
about US$1,270 million in 1973/74. The deferred payment arrangements for
part of her oil requirements that India is understood to have reached with
Iran and Iraq will also provide welcome relief. Nevertheless, these various
sources of financing hardly measure up to India's current requirements. India
will have to draw on her foreign exchange reserves, which, at about US$1,300
million, are currently equivalent to less than three months of imports. India
has also drawn US$375 million on the IMF in the current year. The Government



- 4 -
also intends to make use of the DIF oil facility, and a drawing on this
facility of about US$240 million has been recently approved for use in
calendar year 1974.
13.       On the domestic front, the Government's present efforts are con-
centrated primarily on maximizing production in key sectors through a system
of priorities in the allocation of scarce resources and through careful
monitoring of developments and performance. In agriculture this entails
provision of power on a priority basis for minor irrigation and fertilizer
production and allocation of adequate foreign exchange for as much fertilizer
as can be imported from the limited world supplies. Similarly, efforts are
made to identify production bottlenecks in such sectors as fertilizer pro-
duction, coal mining and power generation; and special arrangements exist
for meeting expeditiously the foreign exchange requirements of these sectors
for such items as captive power units where appropriate, spares and replace-
ment parts. The railways are also tied into this system and accord priority
to the movement of goods required by these sectors. In the fertilizer, coal
and power sectors, senior officials are provided on a continuing basis with
detailed production figures along with explanations for production shortfalls.
Attempts are also being made to rationalize the administrative machinery of
the Government in these sectors, as evidenced by the October 1974 decision
to bring irrigation under the wing of the Food and Agriculture Ministry
and to regroup power generation and coal mining under an Energy Ministry.
14.       In the short term, however, there are limits to the extent to wbich
India's dependence on oil imports can be reduced and production of domestic
sources of energy can be stepped up. Insofar as the compression of demand
for oil products is concerned, these limits are determined, on the one hand,
bv the relatively small proportion of oil products used for private con-
sumption (possibly one-sixth) and, on the other hand, by tile limited avail-
ability of domestic substitutes (i.e. coal and power). The 13 miiillion tons
of crude oil plus 3 million tons of product imports planned for the current
year probably represent the lower limit beyond which these imports cannot be
curbed without serious repercussions on domestic production. Had colsuTaption
been allowed to grow in line with recent trends, the present level of crude
and product imports taken together would probably be of the order of at
least 18 million tons.
15.       A major effort is being made to use existing capacity as fully as
possible throughout the economy. To this end, despite the serious balance
of payments problem described above, the Government is pursuing a relatively
liberal policy toward imports of raw materials required by industry. Never-
theless, it is hard to get away from the current infrastructure constraints
and particularly the shortage and unreliability of power supplies which,
though somewhat eased, continue to affect production. Fiscal and monetary
policies, including the cutback in budgetary expenditures and limitations
on bank credit, are also restraining industrial output; and there is some
evidence that, due to rapidly rising food prices and the consequent erosion
of real purchasing power, the demand for some consumer items and industrial
projects is being affected. Given the various constraints, there is likely



-5-
to be little or no industrial growth in the current year which, in combination
with the current agricultural situation, makes it unlikely that there will
be anv GNP growth either. In regard to inflation, the Government has made
impressive efforts to curb budgetary expenditures and to tap additional
sources of revenue. However, not surprisingly, in view of continuing food
shortages and other scarcities, inflation has not abated. The wholesale
price index, which in 1973/74 had recorded an increase of 29% over the pre-
vious year, has risen by a further 14% during the first five months of this
fiscal year.
16.       In present circumstances the Draft Fifth Plan, published in late
1973, has not been finalized. In real terms investment in the current Annual
Plan is about 30% below the annual level implicit in the Draft Fifth Plan,
and even this is unlikely to be reached. To adjust to reduced resource
availability a number of investments are being postponed. Expenditures on
some of the social sectors such as education and family planning are un-
fortunately also affected. The focus once again is primarily on investments
in key sectors such as fertilizer, coal, power, and steel, and quite rightly
within these sectors the emphasis is on completing ongoing investments
before committing resources to new schemes.
17.       In the long run, given her groundwater, coal, hydroelectric, iron
ore, non-ferrous metals and human resources, India undoubtedly has the
capability to overcome her present difficulties. It is, however, clear that
to overcome them and to resume the interrupted process of economic development,
India will require substantially larger capital inflows than foreseen by the
authors of the Draft Fifth Plan. It is equally clear that as large as pos-
sible a proportion of these requirements should be provided on concessional
terms. However, even on very optimistic assumptions regarding India's suc-
cess in narrowing her resource gap and the response of both Consortium and
other donors, a gap will remain between external financing requirements
and the availability of concessional aid.
18.       India's external public debt outstanding on March 31, 1973, stood
at US$9.9 billion. As a consequence of world-wide inflation and its effects
on India's export earnings, service payments of about US$730 million due
on this debt in 1974/75 are expected to be equivalent to about 17% of merchan-
dise exports as compared with about 26% in 1972/73. However, substantial
additional debt will have to be incurred as a result of increases in the
prices of India's imports. In the future, therefore, the debt service ratio
is likely to rise, given the magnitude of India's requirements and the un-
avoidability of having to finance part of these on non-concessional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 42 loans and 63 development
credits to India totalling US$1,229 million and US$2,880 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$655 million has been



-6-
repaid, and US$1,112 million was still undisbursed as of October 31, 1974.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of October 31, 1974,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 13 commitments in India totalling US$42.3
million, of which US$7.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$20.8 million, US$13.7 million
represents loans and US$7.1 million equity. A summary statment of IFC
operations as of October 31, 1974 is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer
sector and through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways.  Family planning, education, water supply development, and related
urban investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. The priority of the agricultural sector has been further endanced
by the present world commodity situation. Thus, projects designed to foster
agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs such as
credit and on-farm investments, command area development of existing irriga-
tion schemes, and seed production form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years.   Special emphasis will be given LO
projects benefitting small farmers and landless laborers as does rhs -resent
diairv project.  Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial .r:et-
ments will focus on energy-related projects.   Repeater credits for p2';!r
and railways have high priority in this context, and discussions are under
way with the Government in an effort to identify and prepare project3
specifically designed to facilitate coal production and coal transport.
Lending for fertilizer projects, which has been an important feature in
recent years, is expected to occupy an even more prominent place in tne
future program; the use of coal-based technology will receive oarti-culcr
attention.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources ir
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank econoadc re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The nee_d for read-
ily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a Lime when
output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically differenc price
situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical indusltrial rav



-7-
materials and components continues to be an essential element within the
overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors,
it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70 the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12%
of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 28% and 42%, respec-
tively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected to
continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1973, the Bank Group's share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 21%, by 1979 it is likely to
account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predomi-
nantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1972/73 about 13% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group.
PART III - DAIRYING IN INDIA
25.       This project in Rajasthan will contribute to the development of
Indian agriculture, which accounts for about 43% of Indian GNP and employs
70% of the total work force. Although Government of India's (GOI) emphasis
in the sector in recent years has been to increase the output of foodgrains,
it is attempting to diversify where appropriate, with special attention to
the dairy sub-sector. Over the past two decades there has been a marked
decline in per capita consumption of milk, a primary source of animal protein
for the bulk of the population. Efforts are now being made to increase milk
production from 21 million tons in 1972 to 30 million by 1979. The project,
as in the case of the Karnataka Dairy Development Project approved on June
13, 1974 and the Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project being presented
today, is designed to make a significant contribution towards this target.
26.       A large proportion of the world's bovine population is in India.
It has 17% of the world's cattle and 50% of its buffalo. However, indigenous
varieties produce very low milk yields. Their main contribution has been to
provide draft power and to support a small livestock industry accounting for
14% of the total agricultural sector's share of GNP and about 5% of total
exports. To increase milk production significantly, a large-scale effort
to develop higher yielding animals and expansion of animal health care and
breeding facilities is required.
27.       Crossbreeding of indigenous cattle with exotic varieties to pro-
duce higher yielding dairy cattle has been conducted in India for many years,



-8-
so far with only limited success. With one rather notable exception, dairy
development has not been accompanied by adequate institutional support, effec-
tive organization of small and marginal farmers (who produce most of the
milk) into economically viable units, nor by development of adequate facilities
for milk collection, processing and marketing. Nor has there been adequate
provision of animal health care and technical services to farmers. Few
farmers use their land principally for dairy production, which remains
essentially a subsidiary farm activity. There is also a shortage of animal
feed in the country. If a significant increase in milk production is to be
achieved, additional feed must be made available or more of the available
feed must be reserved for high yielding animals. The demand for cereal
grains as human food and the favorable export position of oilseeds and
oilcake preclude any significant increase in the supply of concentrate feed
for livestock. It is, therefore, important to encourage small farmers to
develop animal production systems which will result in more efficient use
of available supplies and development of higher quality forages. It is
being demonstrated in India that by integrating leguminous fodder into the
existing farming systems, higher overall crop yields result which largely
compensate for some diversion of land to fodder.
28.       A notable bright spot in the Indian dairy picture is the successful
experience of the Kaira District Cooperative Mlilk Producers Union Ltd. (AMUL).
AMUL is centered on the formation and operation of hundreds of village milk
producers cooperatives (a typical member owns two buffalo and tills less than
1 hia). The village cooperatives are welded together into a cooperative union
which owns and operates facilities for milk and feed processing, collection
and distribution and provides its members with a full range of technical
services. The union is responsible for setting milk prices and obligated to
buy milk in any quantity from members. Thus, the farmer is assured of year-
round outlet for his milk at fair prices. Members are provided with a package
of services which includes artificial insemination (AI) and routine veterinary
health coverage, sale of concentrate feed and fodder seed, and training. The
oustanding success of AMUL has encouraged GOI and a number of other states to
foster the establishment of similar programs in other parts of the country.
Status of Dairy Development in Rajasthan
29.       Rajasthan, land-locked in the northwest of India, is the country's
second largest state in size but among the smallest six in population. It
is almost the size of Spain and its population of 27 million is slightly
less than that of Burma. About 73% of the population is engaged in agricul-
ture, which in 1971/72 accounted for 40% of the total state income. Of the
14.5 million ha under cultivation, about 2.5 million ha are irrigated. The
average annual 1962/63-1971/72 rate of agricultural growth during the period
was 2.8%. The average size of holdings is 6.8 ha; 60% are 2 ha or less.
30.       In this agricultural environment, dairying, although a subsidiary
activity, provides many farmers with their only source of cash income. Dairy
animals are mainly low yielding nondescript native types. Crossbreeding of
cattle through artificial insemination (AI) was initiated in the mid-sixties,



-9-
but the effectiveness of the AI and health services has been limited due to
shortage of qualified personnel and facilities.
31.       The feed situation in the state is comparatively better than aver-
age for India, but there is, nevertheless, a shortage. There is a consider-
able scope for increasing production of high quality leguminous forages by
small farmers through the integration of these crops into existing farming
systems.
32.       Total Rajasthan milk production is about 5 million liters per day
or about 190 grams per capita, well above the national average of 112 grams
per capita per day. However, dairy processing and marketing are largely
undeveloped. Only about 40% of milk is consumed in fluid form. At present
the State Government dairy supplies about 4% of the urban milk market in the
project area which is concentrated in Jaipur, the state capital. Of the re-
maining 96% of the urban milk market, up to 30% is supplied by the small
city producers who maintain herds of up to 20 cows in the city; the remain-
der and bulk of milk supply comes from village producers.
33.       A dairy cooperative movement promoted by Government and based on
the AMUL pattern was started in 1970 to assure milk supply to the Govern-
ment-owned milk plants. The movement is slowly picking up momentum and
societies with by-laws similar to AMUL's would be included in the proposed
project, which is designed to build on the foundations already laid, and to
further develop the dairy industry in the state using AMUL as a model.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was prepared by the staff of the Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Services Department of Rajasthan along guidelines from the GOI
Animal Husbandrv Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. Two Bank Group
missions assisted with preparation in February/March and April/May 1973. The
project was appraised in March/April 1974. Negotiations were held in
Washington from October 14, 1974 to October 21, 1974. The Borrower was repre-
sented by Mr. T.P. Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, and Mr. S.N.
Saigal, Director, Department of Economic Affairs. The State of Rajasthan
was represented by Mr. B.N. Malhan, Commissioner, Dairy Development and
Special Schemes, and Mr. N.R. Bhasin, Deputy Secretary. ARC was represented
by Mr. M.A. Chidambaram, Managing Director. A report entitled "Appraisal of
Rajasthan Dairy Development Project" (Report No. 523a-IN dated November 4,
1974) is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately. A credit
and project summary is attached as Annex III.
The Project Description
35.       The proposed IDA credit of US$27.7 million would assist in the
development of an integrated program for increasing milk production in
rural areas, involving about 240,000 farm families, most of whom farm



- 10 -
less than 2 ha or are landless, tlhrough a six-year program focusing on
quality crossbreeding, animal health, increased fodder production and
the development of milk collection, processing and marketing facilities.
Village cattle owners would form Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCS), which
would itn turn be grouped into five milk producers' unions of about four or
five hiundred DCS per union following the AMUL pattern in Gujarat. Each
union would own and operate dairy and feed plants and would be capable of
providing AI, animal health, training and extension, milk collection and
marketing services to the DCS.  In addition to the establishment of about
1,800 DCS and the five unions, a Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation
(RDDC) would also be formed to coordinate project implementation and produce
exotic breeding stock. Under the project, the State Department of Animal
Husbandry would be provided with a new Biological Veterinary Vaccine Institute
(BVVI) for the production of animal vaccines. The College of Veterinary and
Animal Sciences, (CVAS) would be provided with a diagnostic field laboratory
for animal health services. An extensive training program for unions and DCS
would also be provided. Finally, about 50 farms of progressive owners would
be improved for demonstration purposes in fodder production, crossbred rear-
ing, and milking hygiene.
36.       At the village level, the DCS would be the focal point for the
project. It would be the center for milk collection and regular payments
to producers as well as sell balanced feed and provide artificial insemina-
tion services to members. It would also be instrumental in communicating
cooperative and technical information to members.
37.       The unions would in turn provide important services to the DCS.
The principal functions and responsibilities of each union would be to:
(a) organize and effect the implementation of the DCS; (b) assist the DCS
with organization, management, inspection and auditing; (c) establish and
supervise milk and cattle feed transportation; (d) process and market the
members' milk and operate the feed mills; (e) provide animal health and
operate bull farms for AI services; and (f) demonstrate improved mixed
farming, crossbred rearing, and fodder production techniques.
The Project Implementat ion
38.       The RDDC would be responsible for the implementation and coordi-
nation of project activities and would play an essential role in the initial
establishment of village cooperative societies and milk producers' unions.
It would be organized under Articles approved by the Association 1/ with a
professional management staff reporting to a 15-member board of directors
consisting of representatives of government, banking and dairy farmers. It
would be a condition of effectiveness that RDDC had been established, a
managing director of suitable qualifications had been appointed, and recruit-
ment of the Divisional Managers for Institutional Development, Livestock
1/   See Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Section 5.01(d).



- 11 -
Development, and Engineering had been completed. 1/ The RDDC would be
responsible for recruiting the nucleus staff for each union as it is formed
and the spearhead teams that would organize the DCS for each union. These
spearhead teams would concentrate on promotion, organization and operation
of the DCS. Once a sufficient number of DCS had been organized, a union
would be established as an independent entity; the nucleus union staff and
its spearhead team would be transferred from RDDC. Assurances were obtained
that GOI and GOR would each invest in RDDC an initial equity contribution
of at least Rs. 300,000 and that they would provide additional equity capi-
tal as required over the project period to ensure that RDDC qualified for
loans from participating banks for project investments. GOR also agreed
to provide redeemable equity capital to cover the first year's estimated
start up costs. 2/ Assurances were also given that beginning not later
than year six (1980) of the project, both GOI and GOR would offer for sale
their shares in RDDC to the unions until the unions had attained at least
75% ownership. 3/
39.       To assist in the formation of DCS and unions along AMUL lines,
RDDC would utilize the services of the National Dairy Development Board
(NDDB), which has over the past several years developed a respected and
commanding expertise in Indian dairy development, especially in the appli-
cation of the AMUL model. Consultants would also be employed by RDDC to
assist the unions in dairy engineering, milk and milk products marketing,
dairy plant operations, mass-media communications, and fodder and livestock
production. It would be a condition of effectiveness that RDDC had made
satisfactory arrangements for training of consultants and executive staff
and had recruited the consultants for dairy plant engineering, mass-media
communications, and fodder and livestock production. 4/
40.       For each of the five unions, a cadre of trained staff would be
assigned within RDDC to concentrate on DCS implementation. Once at least
25 DCS had been registered, expected within the first few months, the union
would be legally constituted, staffed and capitalized. GOR agreed that
union by-laws would be similar to AMUL's and subject to approval by the
Association. 5/    GOI and GOR would together finance as equity 20% of union
investments so as to ensure the unions' creditworthiness for participating
1/   See DCA, Sections 5.01(d), (e) and (i).
2/   See DCA, Sections 3.05, 5.01(f) and (g); Rajasthan Agreement (RA),
Sections 2.14 and 4.05.
3/   See DCA, Section 3.04; RA, Section 4.04.
4/   See DCA, Sections 5.01(h) and (i).
5/   See RA, Section 2.13(a).



- 12 -
bank financing. GOR would also provide additional redeemable equity capital
to cover the unions' initial operating deficits. Assurances for these finan-
cial commitments were obtained from GOI and GOR. 1/ Assurances were also
given that, beginning not later than the sixth project year, GOI and GOR
would offer their shares of the unions for sale at par to member DCS, until
DCS had attained at least 75% ownership. 2/
41.       Each union would be free to set prices for its products and
services, and for milk procurement from members. 3/ Union milk would be
sold in the urban centers and its price would be more in line with the free
urban market price than the subsidized prices of government dairies. How-
ever, average consumer prices are expected to decrease, particularly during
the summer, as private vendors no longer would be able to take advantage of
a situation of milk scarcity to raise prices. Village producers would be
able to earn more for milk sold to DCS and could therefore afford to retain
for their own use fodder now sold to urban producers. The present policy
of government dairies implies a subsidy of consumer milk prices that would
come to an end when the unions determine prices in their members' interest.
The only non-recoverable expenditures under the project are government start-
up grants to DCS and farmers which are justified to facilitate the establish-
ment of new cooperative organizations and the spread of proven crossbreeding
technology to rural areas. Loan components are all recoverable at commercial
interest rates. Farm income and sale of milk are not taxed, but the Govern-
ment would earn sales tax on processed milk products, and income taxes from
RDDC and unions. After-tax profits of the unions would be paid back to the
DCS in the form of bonuses and dividends. A portion would also be used to
help finance dairy and feed plant expansion.
42.       The most significant risk facing the project is the task of creating
DCS and unions to establish a new cooperative-controlled production and
marketing channlel for the increased supplies of rurally produced milk.   NDDB's
experience in replicating the MfUL pattern in Gujarat and other parts of the
country indicates that human responses to such a program are varied but that
the obstacles, though many, are surmountable.   Training and extension are
.he kevs to success. Under the project an intensive program of staff devel-
opment, training and extension would be provided. Five Union Training Centers
(UTC) would be established to train dairy farmers, DCS staff, union staff,
and board members in AMUL concepts. Instruction to DCS staff would also in-
clude artificial insemination, milk testing, basic record keeping, and coopera-
tive principles. About 50 village extension workers for each union would
1/   See DCA, Section 3.05; RA, Sections 2.12(b) and 4.05.
2/   See DCA, Section 3.04; RA, Section 4.04.
3/   See RA, Section 4.08.



- 13
be provided under the project. Their function would be to conduct an in-
tensive extension effort to assist dairy farmers in the application of
basic principles of animal husbandry, milk hygiene, crossbred feeding,
fodder production and mixed farm management. Assurances were obtained
from GOR that project funds for training and extension activities would
be channelled through RDDC to the unions quarterly based upon plans prepared
by the unions. 1/
43.       The DCS, the basic organizational unit to be established under the
project, would each be managed by a committee of nine members, headed by an
elected chairman who would also be eligible to be elected to the Union Board
of Directors. The committee would appoint a secretary who would be responsi-
ble for day to day running of the DCS. Each DCS would also have one to four
helpers to assist the secretary.
44.       Each DCS would be capitalized by share purchases by members and
entrance fees. For each newly formed DCS, GOR agreed to contribute as grants
initial equipment for milk testing, first-aid, and artificial insemination
and estimated operating deficits in the initial operating period. 2/ These
grants are available elsewhere in India where GOI promotes producers co-
operatives, including the AMUL scheme, and are essential in bringing about
the rapid transformation in the rural institutional farming and dairying
system that the AMUL approach implies. The typical DCS should break even
within three years and earn surpluses thereafter which would be used to pay
milk bonuses to farmers and to purchase shares in the union.
45.       The animal health activities financed under the project would be
carried out by the unions, the Rajasthan College of Veterinary and Animal
Sciences (CVAS) and the Biological Veterinary Vaccine Institute (BVVI).
Each union would be provided with one mobile veterinary unit staffed by a
veterinarian and trained assistant for every 35 societies, which would visit
the DCS weekly without charge. The CVAS would be provided with a fully
equipped diagnostic laboratory, located in the project area, to support the
animal health program. A new facility would be provided to enable BVVI to
meet the state's requirements for veterinary vaccines; at present the supply
is inadequate. Although the BVVI would function as a government agency under
the GOR Department of Animal Husbandry, a BVVI Board of Management would be
established to ensure fuller representation of the organizations involved in
animal disease control. This Board would be responsible for major policy
matters including the integration of disease control programs with production
of appropriate vaccines. The Board would include, inter alia, members from
RDDC and CVAS. Project funds for CVAS and BVVI would be provided on an annual
basis in accordance with annually prepared plans which would be approved by
GOR. 3/
1/ See RA, Section 2.11.
2/   See RA, Section 2.12(b).
3/   See Ra, Section 2.10.



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financig
46.       The total project cost is about US$52 million equivalent (including
duties and taxes) of which the foreign exchange component is about 24% or
US$12.7 million. Included in the project costs are initial operating defi-
cits, working capital, and calf rearing subsidies. These costs, of approxi-
mately US$10 million, would be borne by GOI and GOR and are necessary to
assure a sound financial start for the project and to provide incentive
for participation by farmers. A breakdown of the cost components is in
Annex III.
47.       The proposed IDA credit of US$27.7 million would cover 52% of total
project costs including all of foreign exchange expenditures and 37% of lo-
cal costs. The remaining 48% would be financed by GOI (16%), GOR (19%), ARC
and participating banks (12%) and farmers (1%).
48.       The IDA proceeds under the project would be applied as follows:
(a)  US$8.65 million   -  Equipment for feed mills and dairy
processing plants.
(b)  US$14.1 million   -  Other equipment and civil works for
unions, DCS and RDDC.
(c)  US$0.15 million   -  Exotic purebred cattle and frozen
semen for RDDC and unions.
(d)  US$1.4 million    -  Facilities and equipment for produc-
tion of animal vaccines (BVVI); a
fully equipped, diagnostic field
laboratory (CVAS).
(e)  US$2.4 million    -  Union Training Centers and extension
programs.
(f)  US$1.0 million    -  Consultant's services.
49.       IDA funds for the investments in dairy plants, feed mills and
RDDC (except for imported cattle and semen), would be channelled from GOI
to ARC and local banks. ARC would refinance loans by banks to RDDC and
unions for project investments. The IDA proceeds for the animal health
facilities, imported pulrebred cattle and semen, consultants and training
wcultd be channelled by GOI through GOR to RDDC. Relending arrangements
and terms are specified in Annex III. The lending rates under the project
would be in line with prevailing interest rates, and the interest spreads
are reasonable in relation to the risk elexrent involved, and the cost of
appraisal and supervision of individual loans.
50.       Subsequent to project appraisal and pursuant to IDA's suggestion,
GOR commenced with the training of project personnel at NDDB. By the time



- 15 -
of negotiations a substantial start on the project training program had been
achieved, and it is proposed to provide retroactive finance under the credit
for such training expenditures from June, 1974 up to a maximum of US$50,000.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Materials and equipment valued at US$18.2 million would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Association's Guidelines. Domestic suppliers would be accorded the usual
preference of 15% or the rate of customs duty, whichever is lower. Importa-
tion of exotic dairy heifers, bulls, and frozen semen (IJS$0.15 million) would
be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three countries
free from foot and mouth disease where suitable animals are available.
52.       Other equipment items valued at US$11.3 million would be unsuitable
for international bidding. These include minor items such as electrical
installations, factory fittings, furniture, and farm equipment. They would
be purchased as needed over six years to coincide with the phasing of opera-
tions and would require service and spare parts to be readily available locally.
53.       The equipment, chemicals and glassware for the crossbred health
program in the CVAS and for the BVVI (US$1.4 million) would be purchased
locally. Bulking of orders for international competitive bidding would be
impractical due to small and spaced orders. The world's leading manufac-
turers' of scientific equipment are represented in India and are competi-
tive, and local maintenance service offered by these established retailers
would be needed to maintain much of the equipment to be purchased under the
project.
54.       Buildings and civil works (valued at about US$9.4 million) for the
RDDC, union dairies and health support program would not be attractive to
international bidders. These facilities would be dispersed geographically
and over time. Contracts would be comparatively small and bulking of them
would not be practical. The facilities would be constructed by local contrac-
tors. Civil works would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are satis-
factory.
55.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
full c.i.f. costs of imported equipment, cattle and semen, and the ex-
factory cost of local equipment bid internationally; against the full
costs of expenditures by RDDC for technical and management services and
overseas fellowships; against 70% of expenditures on locally procured
equipment and civil works, including engineering; and against 80% of
expenditures on union training centers and extension programs.
Economic Benefits
56.       The project would provide important economic and social benefits.
The direct economic benefit of the project will be the increased production



- 16 -
of milk, estimated at 475,000 tons per year by year ten. Some 240,000 farm-
ing households, or approximately 1.3 million people, would benefit by having
a raised standard of living and increased cash family income. The project's
establishment of 1800 DCS, five unions and RDDC would provide employment for
about 8,000 as well as support a milk transport service, consisting largely
of owner-operators.  The AMUL experience indicates that significant social
benefits at the village level would also be derived under the project par-
ticularly after the village cooperative dairy societies become firmly estab-
lished with a regular net annual surplus of funds. Such funds would most
likely be used to augment or initiate village development schemes involving
education, health, family planning, minor public works and infrastructure.
A further unquantifiable benefit to the village would accrue from improved
nutrition which would result from increased intake of milk particularly by
children and infants. The benefits which would accrue to consumers would
come from an improvement in nutrition as a result of increased availability
of whole pasteurized milk in the urban areas. Also, as the share of hygienic
pasteurized milk to raw milk increases, the risk of milk born diseases such
as TB, brucellosis and gastrointestinal infections (particularly with infants)
will decrease greatly. Based on the quantified incremental costs and bene-
fits, the economic rate of return to the project is about 31%. A sensitivity
analysis to test the effect of slower formation of successful DCS assuming
that plant investments are not delayed shows that if successful DCS can only
be formed at half the rate envisaged under the project, the expected rate of
return is 24%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the draft Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the State of Rajasthan, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a draft Resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
5X.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are
described in paragraphs 38 through 45 of this report
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 1 7 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
November 15, 1974






CUTyDATA - It'l. A                                                               Page       1
k.lT'iba                                       577.Ti331Aon (ald-1973)                           350     P., konlof -rablv )and
SOCIAL IDIOCATORS
In,dia 
(HInPu FM   'nu  0 (ATIM RAW) ~                                     .          110               90 g  /a     220 I8     2, 600 I
WE%crth raw  ~~paz tthh=                          37                             48 1d i      45/Ind     16. 2
amdu duone rot. (par itaa1non.t2                                                                                          1.
wanwt Cortality rOto (p00, Ahaanood L"v biotha)                  139  a120-I10                  ..            3 0        17.5 
Lifo cmato0ay at birth (Y0000)                                    41 ZE       50                 48           53           77
Oroca rradtuatia   reto A.                                                    2.9               3.2           3.3         1.3
Pbpuatlotia M     rotth                                          2   /        2. 3              2.0/         3.0          0.5 /
Popolatio argoath rota                                           2 rbn3 /g     .34                           3.0 A        0.5/
A00 airnoatur (p-oroat)
0.11                                                           41          42                 4.5 /        W 3         3.6
15-64 .                                                                      55                53 7j        53         63.4
65 and c,or                                                                                       7: 2b                1.
80na,oafto  ratio A                                              1.0          1.2 /t,1          1.!. 1_        3         13.0
Ulrban popalatior, apaorooat of total                             38           20/A              17     ~     32L a        78
Family Plo   -aig  11D. af aocasptaw  oaumolitil  (tiooa)      1,, .                            175          409
B.. of uaore (S a of oriod von)                 ..           ...
VT       faoa  (thouseoda)                             189.000 Io  221,00     4k      40, 100 /c    13.200 d     25,600
Poreantalo coployod ina oclaltoro                              -,3 7-        71                63 - 6
percentage na23p1oyed                                           ..                              2            57P           j
JOrant 00naioa     incoa ,Ooooivod by, b1ab0at 513              20 /r        22  a              .             5           15/a 0
Poaona of aati0nal in       i0 roasivod by bl1hat 2CI             46 7-        48                              54          3 9     00
Poroslat of aatioaal Ioan   roaivod by lacDat 1M                  8s 7?         8                               46        1    j
Pbroai atnatioal iaaooroontoad by lo=at 2W3                 8 7?
S9 *%od by cmolIoOt 1059 of omy
smayu, mm por plValcion                         ~~5,300 /v   4,800            27,,650        9,100 /        820
Paplaition por naon      c     ~5,0 72o 77                                   UO               3, 010       5,32o 72       310 /N
P.pulatio0 par baapit   :ra                                    2,600 77     1,620 LU          1,720          850 77       110lo
For aapita caloric supply o i Sof roqcprc2=U1nt                   68/a         87 4/b            83            87/If      120
For ccpit, protaia capply, totel (grow ar o  daIT&                51 7As       49A1              43     ~      53 7'       87
Of thi8.0k  anl-1 cod poa                                       197-         16b   A           14&          722          5
lOath rate1-4. yauoa a                                             .           .                 .!                       0.7 Lt
pr0r  o a  na.ot, -.tI0                       42           79 /ao            71           112 Ln.       io 1
M uL t -                          au~~~~toto              30           21/a 7&            2           45 a         72
Yoora of aaolispvoidod, float and anoa         lowal              12           12                12           10           13l
Yooatlanal enraollment an % of Go0. aehool onrolbnat               4            6/)              28            30I/adft     5
Adult litooacy raot  S                                            24 &         36 ~    &         56    ~      7272~        97/If
1M   ga   Do. of poraccu, Por aow  (urban)                         2.6 /.1       ..i..                                      0.6   l
orcoant of ocoptod anits without pipod WAtor.                                   ..                             66 /ad
Access to clootrjiuty (as0   of totol papoautia)                  ..           .                  .23
Porcoat of A.ral pOopuatiao aonootad to loaotoicity               ..           .                  .6 /ao
21  rocaivara p00 1000 Ppulolation                               5           21               114.           45lo       330
paossessor ntpa         pi.ta                                    0.8            1                 2             a-        20
Biactriaon   o oo=0     in(bO     ..                              46          111                19           229       4,4164
Noapfiot asoocaptlao P.O. IT P., y0o0u                           0.2          0.3              0.2           1.8 /n7k    27.7
Mates, Figuroa rotor oithor to tho latoot porioda ozr to             c,onocOt of cuLo0Vi0cntal Vempara0r, 0001 vaidAtc, 000-
to Intact Years. Lotot poorada reto      in pricalple to             ditribti0     by cgo csd one of octi-alo) populaltions.
tOo soar 1956-60 or 1966-70; the lotates yours 1   pri0.             lyOahWbyU,     E a'Ai Rsaq. r  ch~at   fevor  pllovottor a n 0Oimb
cilefl to 1960 and 1970.libdb                                                    M    oooa     oathB       io  prlotrcaca'
/1  Itho For Capita GM? .aticatIe ha t  =arkt prtnoa far             a1wnof60grace of total protoin par day, cod 20 Sr               at
ya-. otbor than 1960,-oalltad kw ito a00      000yaanoo.          o       ax     . um  PzOoto, of td.ih 3.0 groan tobld ho anino
toohniquaa. theit  1972 Wocrld 800k Atl...                       protein.   Than o tandof rd  0 . a .ohot laoor t0a0 t3a.o of 75
/2 A,orago ao.itr of daughters par Numaon of roproductioo             Wmo= of total protein cOd 23 aroan of anijmal Prototin    anm
ago.                                                             averago for ito corl.d, proposed by PAO in toe Tird OorlA load
Po Fpulation grathb rtoa ors for the decades on.a     in           Soc'7.
1960 and 1970.                                                 Ba 80    atudios boon cn4g0tcd that 0008  dooth roto oOf childrCe.
Ratio of under 15 and 65 and ever Ago brockoto to                  asm 1 throua08  4 amy b. used an a first appoxainatdninda l oxf
thmo o I labor for-- broakot of agos 15 itrouaa 61.                l0uutoitl0.
F 7C.0reforonno atandards reproaot ptoodoloSkcl. ro-           /8   Paoratogo oarollod of oorruspondius populotion of soh-oo   0g0
qaireOanto for woral activity and health, taking                 as definad for maah anotry.
Ia. 1972;      Ab  Rointot aomn-I average for 1963.64 basad 00 rosulta of itoe national sample a.rvo7;          /C  8sti-~Ate
7~1965-70t -            !Keiatad anwal Average for 1951.61 based on ansalysis of decennial conaaoot        If799
~~ 1951-tO;    1960-7~2;     A   For ito definition of wrban, aee D              !oaig  arbook  L2, P. 154iT  1    ooc
palittOs, rogncY capitols and Othar plAOea with orban othraoterist ca, excluing         atj5!rii;      A   For th. defjiat
1100 of -orbn, a    D00  rPghgp40rj5rbo1         p. 1561      A, Ratio of population under 15 and 65--a-.d   over to labor
f-oro  In ago group   _" 139T t7iiL8      Of'jPuoPtowionrerT5 and 65 a         over10  to total labor form;   L   1964;
lo 1961, Iocl,cto  all i5roiioduantt L  perticipoto in any typo of 00000m10 activity;       12AID satilote of     abrfore.
Ln age group 15-59. ISMt report givos a figure of 180.1. million booed on ithe 1971 po13Ai0.attceonsus. The diff'oranoo
Ls Joe to changea in itoe dofinitton of a wor~ker. Jn ithe 1971. canaan, persoons wero alaooifted 001onl itoe tools of tholr
at, Activities.    TItLi lad to itohe ooa     of sever'al oatogorios, eoot an housowives;       11  1961;      /r1961-62;
196h-65;       A   1971; /u    Households;     1v   1962;     /wpPersonnol in gover,nment gorolonc only;        __  1957;
Including rkwal bopttals;       Ls  Oorommont hospital oatalS7iolamntat /&a      1960.62;      lab  1969-70;   -/.a    Etall
M-te     htich includ.s oberage student.;     Ad    19671      an  19683      7.   Not lncl24ding vocational short-lon    ooem  n
Population of 10 year.     do- vr based on one poanti aunpi. dtat of 1871;          Z!   15 yaau' And   var;      /.4  Eotinato
1a-oi on amople s-ftvy;      L!J   1966;     /.    Ipoorta only;    Lg], 1965. 
o lz. And population nato Indonesia a relevant refarenco onuntry, Although it is io th. per oapias iAconn, group oelow
1 odia.
I'-0 United Kingdoa tas b000 selected beaooo, of th. AaPorotaot role of public sector an,terp,inea and the highl-y do-
vromped systaO f social welfore.
A.8.                                                                    IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R Sptanba 11, 1971.



ANNEX I
Page 2
ECONOMIC DE'$ELOPMENT DATA
ONP PER CAPITA IN 1971': uS   $ 110
'     7iO'ATINA.L PRODUCT 'It! 1972/73-                                               ANNUAL iATE OF GROWTiH (%, constant prices)
US $ Bin.                                     1961/62-1965/66    1965/66-1969/7    i970/71-1972/73
!:P at MGarket Prices                    57. 7      100.0                                   3.3                4.7              2.0
Cross Domestic Investment                  9.7        16.8
Cross National Saving                      9.:        15.9
Current Account Balanace                  -0.>        -0.9
Rtesource Gap                             -0.2        -0.3
OUTPUT, LABOR TiHCE, AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)                        Labor Force        V.A. Per Wlorker
US   B 31n.                                         Li Min.            US $ d of lational Avrrage
AEricultre                          194                 42.6                         129.9   72.0        1149           97
Jndustry                            13.3                23.3                          20.2   11.2         658          209
Serv!ices                           214.3               34.1                          30.2   16.8         805          255
Total/average                     57              .    100.0                            3100.0                         130
COIENdMANT P1ilANCE                                          c
General Government-                                   Central Government
(Rs. tn)             % of ONP                         (Rs. Bln)             ', of NP
1972 /73      1 972/73  1 970/71 -1972/73             197273         1972/73  1970/71-I972/73
'1,rrer.t Receipts                  78.71         i7.0         16.1                       46.04          iO.0         9.3
Ciirrent xenediitures               80.78         17.5         16.2          4      5       .66 iO.O
Current Sur-tus/)eficA?            - 2.07        -0.5                                       .38           - 0..
Capital Expenditures -              26.21          5.7          5-5                       19.B4           4.3         4.0
'xternal Assistance knet)            3.30          0.7          0.8                        3.30           0.7         0.d
M!ONEYt, CREDIT AND PRICES               1965/66   1969/70   1970/7!   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74    A  _ustt 1973  August 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)  (est)                       (est)
Money and Quasi Money                       61.4      93.3     105.6     122.3     144.3     158.3       155.4           177.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                40.8      52.4      56.9      68.9      82.7      90.9        89.3            95.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector               28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4      76.4      92.4        77.7            95.7
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of CDP           24.0      24.1      24.7      26.8      28.5      32.8
Wholesale Price Index (1961/62 = 100)      131.6     171.6     181.1     188.4     207.0     283.6       251.1           323.1
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                        7.6       3.7       5.5       4.0       9.9      22.7        21.0            28.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                12.9       1.5       8.6      21.1      20.0       9.9        26.3             9.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector               12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6      13.5      20.9        19.7            23.2
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the 1972 World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Estimates.
c/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
d/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



AllELX I
Page 3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                1971 72   1972/73   1973/74          MERCHAIDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971/72-19731L)
(Million US $) Est.                                       US $ Ml.
Fxports of Goods                                    2,160     2,545     3,172     Jute Manufacturers                 324            12
Imports of Goods                                    2,572     2,590     3,966     Tea                                195             7
Trade Balance                                       - 412     - 15      - 794     Cotton Textiles                    241             9
!,FS (net)                                          - L8      - 146      n.a.     Iron Ore                           151             6
'escurce Gfap                                       - 460     - 191      n.a.     Engineering Goods                  193             7
Interest Payments (net)                             - 230     - 237     - 239     Others _e521                                      58
Other Factor Payments -net)                         -   7     -   8      n.a.     Total                            2,t25           100
Net Transfers                                         358     - 50       n.a.
3alance on Current Account                          - 339     - 486    -1.033     EXTERiNAL DEBT. MARCH 31, 1973
Ofl'icial Aid                                                                                                                   US$  11hn.
Repayable in foreign currency                  9,292
Disbursements                                  1,089       896     1,309     Repayable throug. export of goods                560
.Inortization                                  - 385     - 408     - 461
Total Outstanding and Disbursed                9,.52
Transaction-s  ith GML?                               -         -          75
All Othier Items                                    - 1$0        32      n.a.                                                                 e/
DEB3T SE.RVICE RATIO FOR 1973/74              22.1  perocnt
Increase in Reserves (-)                            - 225     -  34     - 106
Cross Reserves (end year)                           1,277     1,311     1,417
Net Reserves (end year)                             1,277     1,311     1,417     IBRD/IDA LENDING, AUeUST 31, 1974            (USi.  Mln.
F'uel and Related Ilaterials                                                                                                IHERE        IDA
Imports                                               262       265       716     Outstanding and Disbursed                  457       2,068
cf which:  Petroleum                                261       265       716     Undisbursed                                 79         938
Expor'ts                                               11        h1        20     Outstanding incl. Dndisburscd              536       3,006
of which:  Petroleum                                  9        37        16
'Io:o to mid-Dccocbcu 1571:    .  1.00 =   .   7.5                          ftC1r end June 1972   :     loating Date
Rs. 1.00 = US ; 0.133333
Spot Rate (Nov. 8, 1974): approx. US$    .00 = Rs. 8.11
Mid-December 1971 to       : US $ 1.00 - Rs. 7.27927                                                   approx. Ms. 1.00 = US$0.123
end June 1972             Rs. 1.00 = US $ 0.137376
e/ Amortizaticn and interest payments as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANliEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS Oi BAAK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMIENT Oq BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1974)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower         Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
37 Loans/
29 Credits fully disbursed                                           993.6    1,L01.1
o14-IN       19 o   India    Tarai Seeds                           13.0       -         7.4
170'-LN      1970   India    Kadana Irrigation                       _      35.O        7.0
683-Ii       1970   ICICI     Industries DFC VIII                  40.0        -        1.2
191-IN       1970   India    Gujarat Agricultural Credit             -      ,.0         1.0
203-IN       1970   India    Punjab Agricultural Credit              -       27.5      26.4
2260IN       1971   India     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit     -       24.4       7.7
241-IN       1971   India    Telecommunications IV                   -       78.0      23.1
242-IN       1971   India    Power Transmission II                   -       /5.0      67.6
249-iN       1971   India    Haryana Agricultural Credit             -       25.0      15.4
250-IN       1971   Inidia   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit          -      35.0       11.3
26)4-I       1971   India     Cochin II Fertilizer                   -       20.0       8.1
267-IN       1971   India    Wheat Storage                           -        5.0       4.8
268-IN       1971   India    Pochampad Irrigation                    -      39.0       11.5
789-IN       1971   ICICI    Industry DFC IX                       60.0        -        9.6
278-IN       1972   India    Mysore Agricultural Credit              -        c0.o     27.2
279-lN       1972   India     Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion          -      10.0       2.9
280-IN       1972   India     Railways XI                             -      75.0        -
293-IN       1972   India    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit          -      30.0      14.8
294-TN       1972   India     Bihar Agricultural Markets              -      14.0      14.0
312-IN       1972   India    Population                               -      21.2      19.2
342-TN       1972   India    Education Project                        -      12.0      12.0
356-IN       1972   India     IDBI                                    -      25.0      25.0
357-IN       1973   India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion              -      58.0      49.8
377-IN       1973   India    Power Transmission III                   -      85.0      55.0
378-IN       1973   India    Mysore Agricultural Markets              -       8.0       8.0
902-LI       1973   ICICI    Industry DFC X                        70.0        -       55.7
390-IN       1973   India    Bombay Water Supply                      -      55.(      54.1
31 -IN       1 >73  India     Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -      33-0      27.3
392-IN       1S>73  India     UP Agricultural Credit                  -      ,8.0      32.8
403-IN        1973   India    Telecommunications V                    -      80.0      80.o
427-IN       1973    India    Calcutta Urban Development              -      35-0      33.1
440-IN       1973   India     Bihar Agricultural Credit               -      32.0      2,.14
4)48-TN      1973   India     Railways XII                            -       o0.0     47.4
456-ii       1974   India     HP Apple Processing & Marketing         -      13.0      13.0
474-IN       197I   India     Indistrial Imports IX                   -     1'-,0.0    63.o
481-IN       1974   India     Trombay IV                              -      50.0      50.0
1011- I      197)4  India     Chambal (H)                          52.0*       _       52.0
482- I       1974    India    Karnataka Dairy                         -      30. 0*    30.0
502-IN       19714  India    Rajasthan Canal (CAD)                   -       33.0*     83.0
T tal                                                           1,228.6  2,880.0
of which h.s boer, repaid                                    647.1       7.c:
Total now o-.tstai,6i-r                                           SI.s 7r 77r7
Amount sold                        111.5
of which has been repaid      111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                           277 
Total undisbursed (including-)1/                                   126.1    955.7   1,111.8
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANiEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1974)
Amount (US$ million)
Year            Company                                 Loan      Equi.y      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd                       1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7       0.3         1.0
1964         Fbrt Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8       0.4         1.2
1964         Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               2.3       1.0         3.3
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3         1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0       0.1         1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6       2.9        11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1       3.8        18.9
TOTAL                       33.5        8.8        42.3
Less:  Sold                                 6.o       1.6         7.6
Repaid                               7.6        -          7.6
Cancelled                            6.2       .1          6.3
Now held                            13.7       7.1        20.8
Undisbursed                           -         .6         1.0



ANNEX II
Page 3
/1
C. PROJEC TS IN EXECUTION
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
TBhe level of disbursements was $368 million in FY74 or 83% of Bank Group
commitments in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of $1,112 million as of
October 31,   1974, corresponds roughly to cornmitments over the preceding
24-month period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast and slow disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 663   Sighth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$400. million loan of June 3, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1974
Ln. No. 789   Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902   Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June b, 1973; Closing I)ate:
December 31, 1978
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. The undisbursed balance of
US$1.2 million for Loan 683-IN as of the closing date of September 30, 1974, has
been cancelled; Loan 789-IN is fully comiimitted; and disbursements under Loan
902-IN are ahead of schedule. An eleventh loan to ICICI is tentatively
scheduled for Board presentation in July 1975.
Ln. No. 614   Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1' $7
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in the
development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is working
efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed quality.  Seed
production is meeting targets. Implementation problems over processing plant
construction and land-leveling have been resolved although, as a result of
these delays, an extension of the closing date by two years is proposed.
Expansion of an existing processing plant is in progress, and tenders for a
new plant are under preparation. Large-scale land-leveling demonstrations have
stimulated demand for such work and orders are to be placed shortly by con-
tractors for irnported machinery.
Cr. No. 1i6   Kadana Irrigation; US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Maahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project aLso includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
/1  These nctes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
nroiect executicn.



ANNE;X If
Page 4
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development.   The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because o? delays
in dam construction.  The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule.  Some of the delays in implementation have occurred at the
start of the project before major investments have been made.   These will
not affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of material shortages. The Government has recently taken
action to make more material available.
Cr. No. 268   Pochampad Irrigation: US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha.  It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until
mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and credit disbursements progressing ahead of schedule. Acute shortages of
construction materials, especially explosives for the canal excavation, have
hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canals is now likely
to fall more than one year behind schedule, which is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Land development
is presently haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability in
the project. Government is aware of the inadequacy of the credit operation
for land development and has requested IDA financing for a Command Area
Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority for all
farmers in need of land development.
Cr. No. 191   Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit of
June 3, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr. No. 203   Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit of
June 24, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 226   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project. US$24.4 million credit
of January o, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 249   Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit of
June 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr. No. 250   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 millicn credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Cr. No. 278   Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Closing Date: October 31, 1975
Cr. No. 293   Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million credit
of June b, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million credit
of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440   Be-har Agricultural Credit Pro.ject; US$32.0 million credit of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 5
The above agricultural credit projects total US$319.9 million.
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization equipment only,
all are similar in structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term
credit to farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments
as imported tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of
these credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation components were
concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional requirements,
in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and lending
terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assessing ground-
water availability. These constraints have been overcome and disbursements are
on schedule. Tractor procurement has been delayed following the substantial
change in both the supply and demand situations since the projects were
originally appraised. Tnose credits which have tractor components have been
amended to ?ermit the financing of indigenously manufactured tractors as well
as imported tractors. Tractor procurement is now in progress on that, basis.
Some funds earmarked for tractors have been reallocated to minor irrigation
components.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971; Closing
Date: September 30, 1975
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat
belt, comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons capacity) and 10
silos (200,000 tons capaci ty) and an all-India grain storage study. Warehouse
construction is about 75% complete. The Government Food Ministry has selected
a local research institute to conduct the study. Administrative problems,
substantial cost increases, and technical difficulties in the selection of silo
sites have hampered the execution of the silo component. A supervision mission
has recently assessed the situation and will shortly recommend appropriate action.
Cr. No. l56    Himachal Pradesh Apples Processing and Marketing; US$13 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This project has been designed to promote the development of apple
production in Himachal Pradesh and comprises roads, cold storage, juice pro-
cess4ng, and marketing.  This credit was declared effective on September 26, 1974.
Cr. No. 21M    Telecommunications IV; US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. 'Io. I403  Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Both projects are continuations of Telecommunications III.  Tele-
communications IV has been designed to support the telecommunications expansion
program over the last two years of the Fourth Plan (1969-74). Procurement
action for dlelivery of imported goods in 1973/74 has been largely completed.
Production problems in local factories delayed initial disbursement by about
6-9 months. However, production has now picked up and as of October 31, 1974,
Us$54.9milIifion had been disbursed under the credit.  Telecommunications V was
declared effective on July 30, 1973, and procurement procedures, after a slow
start, are IIow under way.



ANNEK II
Page 6
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of May 9,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1577
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, has been designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipmenit and materials required to develop a power transmission prograi.. in
nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred because
of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for international
bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids involved, but all
contract awards have now been made. Power Transmission III became effective
on October 10, 1973, and specification and tendering procedures are progressing.
Tenders received so far indicate substanitial cost overruns.
Cr. No. 261h   Cochin II Fertilizer; US$20.0 million credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer; US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date:_ March 31, 1975
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion; US$50.0 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is
now proceeding about 21 months behind schedule due, in large part, to labor
and procurement difficulties. Procurement problems have been largely overcome
and most of the equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another
factor which has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the
commissioning of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate
amount of management attention.  Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant
Operations Improvement Program which wiLl be used in part to overcom3 these
problems; the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis
and procurement has been initiated.  The engineering design for the Gorakhpur
project is well advanced and virtually all the equipment has been ordered.
Although dE,livery of some equipment may take longer than forecast during
appraisal, the project is progressing without serious difficulties, and
disbursements are expected to be complete by the March 1975 closing date.
Engineering work and procurement for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are
proceeding satisfactorily. The Trombay IV Credit was signed on June 19, 1974,
and was declared effective on August 21, 1974.
Cr. No. 448    Railways XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 1974; Closing
Date:  September 30, 1975
This project consists of new and ongoing works in the Indian Railways



ANNEX I)
Page 7
investment program. The credit was declared effective on February 26, 1974, and
disbursements are on schedule.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1970
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Bihar Agricultural Markets, which will help to finance the
establishment of wholesale markets in about 50 towns, was declared effective
on July 31, 1972. A supervision mission that visited the project in February 1974
reported good progress in the selection, design and appraisal of individual
market subprojects. Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets became effective
on September 7, 1973. Market construction is expected to begin on schedule
in late 1974. Training has been below the specified levels because ef shortage
of staff available for training; this is expected to be rectified next year.
Cr. No. 312    Population; Us$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1975
This credit, which will help finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, was declared effective
on May 9, 1573. Project implementation is gaining momentum; the construction
program is well under way, and all key project staff have been appointed.
However, institutional problems have developed in the Population Centers and
the matter is currently under discussion.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of November 10,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress of implementation has improved with the selection of campus
planners/executive architects, project architects and specialist advisers. Contract
negotiations for these personnel are presently in progress and appointments are
expected to be made shortly. University development plans and fellowship programs
have been submitted to the Association and are under review.   Equipment lists are
still being prepared.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This credit became effective on June 22, 1973. The last review
mission reported in May that after a slow start, satisfactory progress can now
be expected. Commitments of US$2.6 million have been made so far under the
credit.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water aIpply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million credit
of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Project implementation is about nine months in arrears due to an
initial delay in appointing the principal consultants. Bidding for principal



ANNEX II
Page E
material requirements commenced in October 1973 and is progressing satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected to be in 1979 instead of 1978.
Cr. No. 474    Ninth Industrial Imports Project; US$150.0 million credit of
May 29, 1974; Closing Date: November 30, 1975
This credit was declared effective on June 24, 1974, and uS$86.2
million had been disbursed as of October 31, 1974.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit of
September 12, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum redevelopment proposal and a site
and services scheme. This portion became effective on July 15, 1974. As of
October 31, 1974, US$1.9 million had been disbursed under the credit, mainly for
civil works.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development; US$30 million credit oi' June 19,
1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1902
Conditions of effectiveness are to be fulfilled by December 23,
1974.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development; US$52 million
loan of June 19, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1951
Conditions of effectiveness are to be fulfilled by November 19,
1974.
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development; US$83 million credit of
July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Conditions of effectiveness are to be fulfilled by December 30, 1974.






ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) and banks for
on-lending to Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation
(RDDC), and cooperative milk unions; State of Rajasthan
for improvement and construction of new facilities of
Biological Veterinary Vaccine Institute and College
of Veterinary and Animal Science.
Amount:              US$27.7 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:     (a)  For investment by RDDC and cooperative milk unions:
(i) From India to ARC: Repayment would be at the
end of 15 years at 7.5% per annum, minimum.
(ii) From ARC to Lending Banks: Repayable over a
period of up to 15 years at not less than
8% per annum. Grace and repayment terms
would be set to coincide with collections from
RDDC and unions.
(iii)  Lending Banks to unions and RDDC: Repayable
over up to 15 years including up to six years
grace on interest and principal, at not less
than 11% per annum.
(b)  For facilities for Biological Veterinary Vaccine
Institute, College of Veterinary and Animal Science
and importation by GOR of exotic cattle:
From India to Rajasthan: Repayable according to
established GOI policy of lending to States on terms
prevailing at the time. Current terms are 5.25%
interest per year over 15 years.
(c) Foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOI.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Project
Description:       The purpose of the project is to finance an integrated
program for increasing the production of milk in rural
areas through a cooperative development program which
includes quality cross-breeding, animal health improvement,
and the development of facilities for milk collection,
processing and marketing. The project consists of:
(a) Establishment of about 1,800 DCS, five milk producers
unions and the RDDC,
(b) Importation and multiplication of exotic breeding
stock and an associated AI program of crossbreeding
native village cattle with high producing exotic
breeds. Extension programs for production of fod-
der, improved mixed farming and improved animal
husbandry,
(c) Construction of five union dairy plants and cattle
feed mills; and the establishment of milk collection
routes and milk chilling centers,
(d)  Establishment of one regional diagnostic laboratory
and a plant for production of biological veterinary
vaccines (BVVI),
(e) Provision of consultant services to assist RDDC,
(f) Provision of a training center for each union, an
extensive training program for developing instructors
for training technical and field staff, and fellow-
ships for key personnel.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated
Cost:                                            (US$ Million)
Local     Foreign   Total
Dairy Cooperative Societies          1.0         -       1.0
Union Investments                   19.4        7.0     26.4
RDDC Investments                     0.4        0.1      0.5
Animal Health and Support
Activities                         5.8        0.8      6.6
Training and Extension               2.6        0.9      3.5
Sub-Total                      29.2        8.8     38.0
Physical Contingencies               1.7        0.7      2.4
Price Contingencies                  8.2        3.2     11.4
Total Project Costs            39.1       12.7     51.8
Financing
Plan:                                                 (US$ Million)
Local     Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                               15.0       12.7     27.7
Local Financing:
GOI                                  8.6                 8.6
GOR                                  9.6                 9.6
ARC and Banks                        5.6                 6.3
Farmers                              0.3                 0.3
Total                     39.1       12.7     51.8
Estimated
Disbursements:    FY76     FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81     FY82
Amount Amount Amount Amount      Amount Amount   Amount Total
(US$ Million)     2.2     9.1      5.4     3.1     2.8     3.8      1.3    27.7



ANNEX III
Page 4
Procurement
Arrangements:      The major portion (about US$18.2 million) of materials
and equipment required for milk processing and feed mill
facilities would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding with domestic bidders accorded the
normal preference of 15 percent or customs duty whichever
is the lower. For dairy heifers, bulls, and frozen semen
(US$0.15 million), procurement would be on the basis of
price quotations from suppliers in at least three coun-
tries. The remaining items such as furniture, labora-
tory supplies, and minor equipment (US$12.7 million)
would be procured locally due to small amounts involved,
the piece-meal nature of procurement, and in some cases
the need to maintain standardization with existing items
and local maintenance capabilities. As civil works for
the construction of milk processing plants, feed mills,
and buildings would be dispersed geographically and over
time, they would be too small to attract international
bidders, and would be contracted locally pursuant to
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally aud in accordance with local procedures,
which are satisfactory (US$9.4 million).
Consultants and      Specialists would be contracted to assist RDDC with:
Technical          (a)  dairy plant engineering; (b) training of staff in
Assistance:        dairy processing plant operation, process monitoring,
and quality control; (c) mass-media communications;
(d) marketing and determination of appropriate product
mix; (e) fodder/livestock expertise and establishment
of demonstration farms. US$1.0 million would be pro-
vided under the credit for these services.
Rate of Return:      31%. economic rate of return.
Appraisal Report:    No. 523a-IN dated November 4, 1974.



AFGHANISTAN
,,>  i-1olesc&!"10'             INDIA
JAMMLJ oap, KASHMIR,
rinog'.'JAMUor d IK .        RAJASTHAN      DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM UNDER THE FIFTH PLAN
1                9 /i~~/MACHlALw %A'                      I            ___     _   2W_    3QO
0  150    200   300
->  ..  PRAOES// *\                         L           0         MILES
t.5  N1 iJ   o   200 300 400 500
PAKISTAN                      Chjrdig                                                 KILOMETERS
930                        ? PLINJAB                                                                                      Se-
DScQog   A AN                                           C H I N A
vSrgcnganc   DNel  0 Meerut  5v 41                        (T I be
< _   3DElhl  U7U7AR-  NEPAL                                         P
Agra       PRAOESH  .                           BHUTAN
o.R A J A srHANu t_> 
B/HAP     ' ANGLADESH 
AhmadabadBNA o                                                                                     UM
OArey                                                                                                  B8/     65X8U RM A
v                            _,_'  ;  ; tSNoX ,<J OSc~~~~~~~~~~~~05mbcilpur 0\i
_2o7      J      >,            Amrootif zl 0       (~~~~~~Al  ORISSA                                             zc <
0 ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   ~   0
Bombay      MAHiARASH/rRA                                                 Ba 
e a    a of
A~1 r ayeobz_ b I' en                                                                   a
Sea              coA                            j
\      (<~~~ AIDHRAA)
AI TA        PfA DZS
\ ;7>IMo~~~~~~~~dras
PROJECT AREA
MADHYA PRADESH DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA
0    CITIESANDTOWNS
ZRA  NAD&t    >                             NATIONALCAFITAL
SELECTED MAJOR ROADS
TrivandrumOsp><            SRI LANKA                RAILWAYS
_________ t STATE AND UNION TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
INTE RNATONAL BOUNDARIES
TOTg gpo   rhe lutlumbia .s/llownor  do   S
TO                                Boo                                    OP            O'o,Od 5,0  so mTOI.soso  A  0~~a  C



