CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 521 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rajasthan Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 18, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 521 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rajasthan Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 18, 1974
S


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1974, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Rajasthan acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Rajasthan),
Rajasthan has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project have been undertaken by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation;
and
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5. The term Borrower means India, acting by its President.";


﻿4
(b)   Sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of Section 9.01 is deleted and the
following sub-paragraph (i) is substituted therefor:
"'exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived therefrom and the performance
of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the parties to the Rajasthan Agreement and to the Project
Agreement of their respective obligations under the said agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Rajasthan" means the State of Rajasthan acting by its Governor,
a State of India, or any successor thereof.
(b)   "ARC"   means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "LDB" means Rajasthan State Cooperative Land Development Bank,
Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of
Rajasthan.
(d)   "RSCB" means Rajasthan State Cooperative Bank, a cooperative
society established and organized under the laws of Rajasthan.
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and ARC, and all schedules thereto, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(0    "Rajasthan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between Rajasthan and the Association, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) hereof, and all
schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(h)   "Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made to a Beneficiary
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(i)   "Beneficiary" means (i) any DCS, (ii) any Union, or (iii) RDDC.


﻿5
(j)   "Participating Banks" means LDB, RSCB    and the banks listed in
the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, which have entered
into an agreement with ARC in accordance with Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
(k)   "RDDC" means Rajasthan      Dairy  Development Corporation, a
corporation to be established under the laws of the Borrower.
(1)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(m)   "BVVI" means the Biological Veterinary Vaccine Institute, established
in the Government of Rajasthan.
(n)   "CVAS" means the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, an
educational institution established under the laws of Rajasthan.
(o)   "DCS" means the dairy cooperative societies, v.tablished under the
laws of Rajasthan, as set forth in Section 2.12(a) of the Rajasthan Agreement.
(p)   "Union" means the Milk Producers' Unions to be established as
cooperative societies under the laws of Rajasthan as set forth in Section 2.13(a)
of the Rajasthan Agreement.
(q)   "Project Area" means the milk sheds in Eastern Rajasthan, wholly or
partially in the districts of Jaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Sawai-Madhopur and
Tonk.
(r)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($27,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or.


﻿6
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 1 to the Rajasthan Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as defined in paragraph
B.2(b) of Schedule 1 to the Rajasthan Agreement), the Borrower shall immediately
grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews
of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its
agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made
available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls under
Group A or under Group B (as defined in paragraph B.2(b) of Schedule I to
the Rajasthan Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or such other
date as 6hall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
January 1, 1985 and ending July 1, 2024, each installment to and ncluding the
installment payable on July 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿7
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ARC
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of relending to ARC
for relending to the Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
under Categories 1(a), 2 and 3(a). The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purpose of the Credit and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   In order to assist Rajasthan in carrying out Parts Bl, C, D and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to Rajasthan the proceeds of
the Credit tinder Categories 1(b), 3(b), 3(c), 4, 5 and 6.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Rajasthan to
perform all its obligations inder the Rajasthan Agreement; (ii) ARC to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement, and shall not take or permit any of
its agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance of any such obligations of ARC.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. It is the mutual intention of the parties to this Agreement
that after the Unions and the DCS are established and operational: (i) the DCS
own at least 75% of the shares of the Unions of which they are members; and
(ii) that the Unions own at least 75% of the shares of RDDC. To this end, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree:


﻿8
(a)   the Borrower shall offer and cause Rajasthan to offer, each to sell
not less than 75% of its shares of RDDC, at par value, to the Unions, not later
than January 1, 1980;
(b)   the Borrower shall offer and cause Rajasthan to offer, each to sell
not less than 75% of its shares of the capital of each Union, at par value, to
the DCS members of such Unions, not later than January 1, 1980; and
(c)   these offers shall be made each year until the objectives stated in
Section 3.04(i) and (ii) of this Agreement have been attained.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall make available, and cause Rajasthan to
make available, equity financing required to ensure that RDDC and the Unions
qualify for loans from Participating Banks.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure, and cause Rajasthan to ensure, that
RDDC and the Unions are served by the optimum number of Participating Banks
selected in consultation with ARC.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable Rajasthan to establish
and operate a calf-rearing subsidy program in the Project Area.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable Rajasthan to establish
in the Project Area, and operate with full use of the expertise of CVAS, a health
program for crossbred cattle which shall include: (i) the diagnostic laboratory
described in Part Cl of the Project; and (ii) the vaccine institute described in Part
C2 of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that
consultants acceptable to the Association, recruited upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, will be employed by RDDC to assist the Unions
in dairy plant engineering, dairy marketing, dairy processing engineering, mass-media
communications and forage/animal production.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure the requisite availability of loans
under existing or new lending arrangements to eligible members of the DCS for
minor irrigation for forage production.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall ensure, and cause Rajasthan to ensure, that
not later than January 1, 1982, the future role and status of RDDC is reviewed
with the Association.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Rajasthan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Rajasthan Agreement;
(b)   ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Rajasthan will be able to perform its obligations under the
Rajasthan Agreement, or (ii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   ARC, RDDC, or the Unions shall have become unable to pay any
of its debts as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ARC, RDDC, the Unions or by others whereby any of the property of ARC,
RDDC or the Unions shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or RDDC or any Union
or for the suspension of the operations of ARC or RDDC or such Union.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)  The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)  The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)  The Rajasthan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
Rajasthan and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(d)  RDDC has been duly established under the laws of the Borrower and
under a Memorandum and Articles of Association satisfactory to the Association,
and a Managing Director of RDDC has been appointed.
(e)  The qualifications and experience of the Managing Director of RDDC
shall conform to the standards agreed to by the Borrower, Rajasthan and the
Association.
(f)  The Borrower has subscribed to equity shares of RDDC in an amount
of not less than Rs.390,000 and has purchased for cash such shares in an amount
of not less than Rs.300,000.
(g)  Rajasthan has (1) subscribed to equity shares of RDDC in an amount
of not less than Rs.390,000 and purchased for cash such shares in an amount
of not less than Rs.300,000, and (ll) subscribed to redeemable shares of RDDC
in an amount of not less than Rs.550,000 and purchased for cash such shares
in an amount of not less than Rs.505,000.
(h)   RDDC has made the arrangements satisfactory to the Association
referred to in Section 2.18 of the Rajasthan Agreement.
(i)   RDDC has recruited the RDDC Divisional Manager for Institutional
Development, Livestock Development and Engineering, and recruited consultants
for dairy plant engineering, mass-media communications and forage/animal
production.
(j) Loan agreements satisfactory to the Association have been concluded
by ARC and Participating Banks.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿(a)  That the Proicct Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC and is legally binding upon ARC
in accordance with its terms;
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC, is
legally binding upon the Borrower and ARC in accordance with its terms; and
(c)  That the Rajasthan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Rajasthan and is legally binding upon
Rajasthan in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date May 15, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary. Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Screet, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Civil Works                                       70%
(a)   for Parts A,             5,050,000
B2 and B3 of
the Project
(b)   for Parts Cl               320,000
and C2 of the
Project
2.    Equ%<pment and ma-             6,870,000          100% of foreign
terials procured                                  expenditures
by international                                  (c.i.f.) and
competitive bid-                                  100% of local
ding for Parts A,                                 expenditures
B2 and B3 of the                                  (ex-factory)
Project
3.    Equipment and ma-                                70%
terials procured
locally under pro-
cedures other than
international com-
petitive bidding
(a)   for Parts A,             5,930,000
B2 and B3 of
the Project
(b)   for Parts C.               810,000
and C2 of the
Project
(c)   for Part C3 of             370,000
the Project


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
4.    Imported cattle,                 120,000           100% of foreign
semen and related                                  expenditures
equipment                                          (c.i.f.)
5.    (a)  Training and               1,890,000          80%
Extension
programs under
Part Dl of the
Project
(b)   Training programs            50,000          80%
under Part D2 of
the Project
6.    Consultants' Ser-                790,000           100%
vices and Over-
seas fellowships
7.    Unallocated                    5,500,000
TOTAL         27,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.


﻿15
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
for expenditures under Category 5(b) relating to training incurred after June 5,
1974 for the preparation of the Project in an amount not to exceed $50,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above: (a) if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) with respect to Categories 1, 3 or 5, if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made; and (b) if the estimate
of expenditures to be made under any Category shall decrease, the Association
may by notice to the Borrower re-allocate the amount of such Category no longer
required therefor to any other Category.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is an integrated program intended to increase the production
of milk in rural areas of Rajasthan through the development of village dairy
cooperative societies and unions thereof.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Dairy Plants and Feed Mills
1.   A   phased program   for the design, construction and subsequent
expansion of four dairy plants at Jaipur, Alwar, Bharatpur and
Sawai-Madhopur/Tonk and the expansion of an existing dairy plant
at Ajmer.
2.    A phased program for the design and construction of five cattle feed
mills at Jaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Sawai-Madhopur/Tonk.
B.    Cattle Breeding
1.   The importation of exotic purebred cattle, frozen semen and related
equipment.
2.    The establishment of a breeding farm for exotic bulls.
3.    The establishment of five bull farms (Artificial Insemination Centers),
animal health services and related facilities.
C.    Supporting Activities
1.   The establishment of one fully equipped diagnostic laboratory.
2.    The establishment of a new facility for the production of veterinary
vaccines.
3.    The purchase and utilization of equipment for the DCS.
D.    Training and Extension
1.   The establishment and operation of five Union Training Centers with
related equipment and extension programs for the Project.


﻿17
2.    The training of Project personnel at local institutions.
E.    Consultants and fellowships
1.   The provision of consultants' services to assist RDDC in implementing
the Project.
2.    The provision of fellowships abroad for Union key personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
A.    Annual interest rate of not less than 7-3/4% less 1/4% for prompt repayment.
B.    Repayment at the end of 15 years.
C.    The exchange risk to be for the account of the Borrower.


