CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 521 IN
Project Agreement
(Rajasthan Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED DECEMBER 18, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty seven million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($27,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that ARC agree
to undertake the obligations toward .the Association hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the State of
Rajasthan and the Association, the said State has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and ARC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC shall provide assistance in the carrying out with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
administrative, financial and engineering practices, of Parts A, B2 and B3 of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association. ARC shall
duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) ARC shall promptly invite LDB, RSCB and the banks listed
in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, to participate
in the Project on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   ARC shall establish a list of eligible banks based on criteria agreed
with the Association, including inter alia, the requirement that in the case of LDB,
its collection rate shall be at least 65%, and, in addition, any amount required
to reduce overdues as a percentage of payments of principal and interest of loans
falling due during the fiscal year ending June 30 of each year to 25% shall be
financed by Rajasthan by purchase of redeemable equity.
(c)   ARC shall enter into agreements with Participating Banks in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement and
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section on terms and conditions (including
inter alia those set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) ARC shall require Participating Banks to jointly organize
a project supervision group constituted with the approval of, and presided over
by, ARC to oversee the lending program set up in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.03 of this Agreement.


﻿5
(b)   ARC shall: (i) require Participating Banks to maintain separate accounts
for Project lending and (ii) ensure that the annual audited accounts of such Banks
are submitted to the Association within four months of the end of their fiscal
year together with a statement of Project lending for such Banks, certified by
ARC.
Section 2.05. The lending terms and conditions for carrying out Parts A,
B2 and B3 of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower, ARC and the Association.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions set -forth or referred to in Section 2.07 of, and Schedule I to, the
Rajasthan Agreement.
Section 2.07. ARC: (i) shall maintain Project accounts adequate to record
the progress of Parts A, B2 and B3 of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. ARC and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, ARC and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the Project, and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
Section 2.09. ARC and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.10. ARC shall ensure the requisite availability of loans under
existing or new lending arrangements, to eligible members of the DCS for minor
irrigation for forage production.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and competent
staff in adequate numbers; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ARC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿7
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿8
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 400018
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as ARC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ARC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms and Conditions
of Relending
1.   ARC to Participating Banks
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 8%.
(b)   Installment repayments to coincide approximately with collections
from ultimate borrowers; and
(c)   Refinancing by purchase of debentures or loans at the rate of not
less than 80% of loans to RDDC and Unions under the Project.
2.    Participating Banks to RDDC and Unions
(a)  Annual interest rate to be not less than 11%.
(b)   Grace period to be not more than six years;
(c)  Total loan period not exceeding fifteen years including the grace
period;
(d)  A 20% down payment shall be required; and
(e)   Such security as shall be prescribed by ARC.


