Document of
FILEi co1py                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-2240-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
POST EARTHQUAKE CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 17, 1978
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47                 US$1.00
Leu 1.00                 US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00        =       US$1.00
Leu  1.00        =       US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00        =       US$1.00
Leu  1.00        =       US$0.06
The official exchange rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to convert the
prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange. The rate of lei 18 per US$1 is
being used by the Government to convert national income statistics from lei
to dollars. Consequently, this rate has been used as the base rate for cal-
culation in the appraisal.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
NCEE    -  National Center for Earthquake Engineering
INCERC - Building Research Institute
NCS     -   National Center for Seismology



MR OmFXIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
POST EARTHQUAKE CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ... ...................................           i-li
Introductory Paragraph ...........      .............................        I
Part I - The Economy                         ..I
Part II   -     World Bank Operations in Romania.                           9
Part III  -     Rationale for and Scope of Proposed Bank
Assistance .10
Part IV    -    The 1977 Earthquake and its Consequences .......            11
Part V     -    The Construction Sector and Related
Manufacturing Industries .18
Part VI    -    The Project ....................................           23
Part VII   -    Legal Instruments and Authority                            28
Part VIII - Recommendation .29
ANNEX I    -    Country Data
ANNEX II   -    Status of World Bank Operations in Romania
ANNEX III -     Supplementary Project Data Sheet
ANNEX IV   -    Contents of Project File
MAP        -    Socialist Republic of Romania
This document has a  tricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thoir oScAl duties. Its contents may not otherwio be disclosed without Word Bank authorization.






ROMANIA
POST EARTHQUAKE CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Investment Bank of Romania.
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania.
Amount:              US$60 million.
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, through
semi-annual installments, with interest at 7.5 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:        The project seeks to help the Government meet the remaining
needs of delayed reconstruction and deferred construction
activities, which resulted from the earthquake. The proj-
ect would assist damaged enterprises requiring immediate
reconstruction, enterprises in critical industrial sub-
sectors related to the construction sector in accelerating
expansion of capacity, and the National Center for Earth-
quake Engineering, being developed as part of the Protec-
tion Plan. The project faces no special risks.
Estimated Scope
of Financing: 1/
US$ millions          Foreign as
Item                         Foreign      Total       % of Total
Damaged Enterprises                          13.5         13.5          100
Producers of Construction Materials          4.5           4.5          100
Manufacturers of Machinery and Plant
for Construction Related Industry         25.0          25.0          100
Manufacturers of Construction Equipment      20.0         20.0          100
National Center for Earthquake
Engineering                                 7.0          7.0          100
Total                                       70.0          70.0          100
Estimated
Disbursements:                                US$ million
Bank FY        1979      1980     1981
Annual        30.0       20.0     10.0
Cumulative    30.0       50.0     60.0
1/   This represents the limit out of which items totalling US$60 million
will be financed from the Bank loan.



Internal Economic
Return:             An internal economic rate of return was not calculated
for this project since it would comprise a large number
of sub-projects in different categories giving different
kinds of assistance which constitute a small part of the
very large expansion plans of some of the beneficiaries.
These also produce for a number of sectors other than the
construction sector. Therefore the project does not lend
itself to precise quantification of economic costs and
benefits. The impact of the project would be monitored
during the period of disbursement of the Bank loan.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA,
FOR A POST EARTHQUAKE CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report 1/ and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$60 million, to help finance a
post earthquake construction assistance project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report no. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An economic mission visited Romania
in mid-May to collect information on economic performance in 1977 and to dis-
cuss the 1978 Annual Plan. The findings of the mission will be reflected in
the next President's Report. Country social and economic data are given in
Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The average growth rate of national income during the period has been 9.7
percent per annum. The level and diversification of industrial production
has increased rapidly, providing the basis for the modernization and expansion
of other economic sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and
national income. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry,
the population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased substantially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes
but also because of the provision through the state budget of expanded and
improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of other
kinds. Furthermore, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed
significantly as the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
1/   This report is based on a project proposal submitted in September, 1977
by the Government of Romania and on the findings of a preparation/
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. El Darwish, Sood, Tsantis and
Pepper (Bank) and Messrs. Ostberg and Davey (Consultants), which visited
Romania in October/November, 1977.



-2-
4.        The changes in the level and structure of economic activities be-
tween 1950 and 1975 represent the outcome of a development strategy designed to
accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as possible, with the
level and structure of development in the presently developed countries. The
main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and increasing rates
of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial base; the devel-
opment of local natural resources; the reorganization and modernization of
agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production and income; the
expansion of foreign trade and international economic relations; and the
development of human resources.
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources. Economic activity is directed
by means of obligatory development planning coordinated by the central party
and government authorities. The national plan, drawn up on a five-year time
frame and elaborated each year in an Annual Plan, sets out for the economy as a
whole, by sector and branch, and on a regional basis, specific tasks for eco-
nomic and social units. The plan is drawn up through a combination of central
directives and aggregation of individual enterprise plans, any differences
being reconciled through discussions between the entities involved. During
the late 1960s and throughout the present decade, Romania has undertaken
measures to improve the planning and management system, to increase the
responsibility of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to
orient the economy to a more efficient use of resources.
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets.
Production enterprises generally are not authorized to engage directly in
foreign trade and rely on specialized foreign trade enterprises for this pur-
pose. In agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant
units of production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumulation
had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 28 percent of GNP). The sectoral
allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority of
industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented towards
self-sufficiency; approximately 50% of investment has been allocated to
industry and, of this, by far the largest part was directed to the producer
goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the industrial sector,
over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the producer goods



- 3 -
sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1976 industry was the
leading sector of the economy, accounting for almost 60 percent of national
income, and employing approximately 40 percent of the labor force compared
with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by chemicals, ferrous metallurgy,
engineering and machine-building comprised 62 percent of industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy, however, particularly increased
thie demand for raw materials and energy. It also necessitated rapid growth
of construction. Romania has concentrated on exploiting known local resources
of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible in these
items. The rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since
1950, has outpaced the growth of domestic production and, Romania started to
import oil in 1968. It became a net importer of energy in 1972.
9.        Construction grew rapidly (about 11.5 percent annually) between
1950-1976 to become the third largest sector in the economy, providing
7.6 percent of the national income. However, construction's share in total
investment has been diminishing, particularly during the last decade. The
construction sector had been able to meet the pressing demands of economic
growth through modernization and gradual mechanization. In more recent years,
shortfalls in this sector have been the major factors accounting for the
markedly slower growth in total investment than planned. These shortfalls
reflect the delays in delivery of equipment and spare parts for domestic use;
shortages of materials from both the domestic industry and from abroad; delays
in the completion of designs; overdesign; inefficiencies in the organization
at the site; delay in adoption of modern methods and manpower shortages arising
from recruitment difficulties and from slower productivity increases than
planned. Improvements have been planned to overcome these problems. Further-
more, growth in construction has, in its turn, led to large increases in the
need for building materials, plant for their manufacture, and earthmoving/con-
struction equipment, which have had to be imported until the local industry
could respond to growth in demand.
10.       Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 36 percent of the labor
force (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods and
other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced its share in national
income to somewhat over 18 percent by 1976. Over the past decade, agricultural
performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural develop-
ment and the increased investment funds made available. However, the level
and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
11.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.    The
rapid growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The average GNP growth of 9 percent per annum implies a percentage
growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum, up to an estimated GNP
per capita of US$1,450 in 1976, based upon official national income information
using the World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 4 -
12.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(in fact, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage/salary is five and a half times the minimum. Monthly wages
were increased by 8.3 percent in 1976 to an average of 1964 lei. The Govern-
ment also promotes its income distribution policies through regional allocation
of industrial investment.
13.       The Government, in fact, aims to give the population a basic needs
package, partly by providing services such as education, health and housing.
From this basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living
standards. Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.2 percent, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of a
rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices of
essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
14.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an increase
in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the economy.
The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods and raw
materials, reaching US$6.10 billion in 1976. Exports grew, reaching a level
of US$6.14 billion in 1976, and the share of manufactured goods increased to
50%, reflecting the progress of Romania's industrialization. Trade with LDC's
and developed market economies has also been increasing rapidly in response to
policies of diversifying sources of raw material supply and as a consequence
of exports of more manufactured goods. In recent years, there has also been a
tendency to move away from trade on a bilateral basis towards trade involving
multilateral payments, within the framework of the general trade cooperation
agreements signed with almost all of the country's trading partners. These
agreements also covered cooperation in production, technical assistance and
economic relations. In 1976, Romania had, for the first time since the mid-
1960s, a surplus (of US$72 million) on its convertible currency trade and
also for the first time since 1973 a surplus on overall trade (of US$43 mil-
lion). This was the result of a greater growth of exports to the convertible
currency area. However, because of the deficit on the invisibles account,
Romania had a deficit on current account both in overall terms (US$20 million)
and with the convertible currency area (US$61 million), but they were both
considerably lower than in previous years.
15.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies is characterized by exports of natural
resources and imports of capital goods. Because of the present low level
of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises from
shortfalls in agricultural output or softening in prices tends to place
the import program, largely sophisticated machinery and components, in imme-
diate jeopardy.



-5-
Recent Economic Developments
16.       The Five-Year Plan under implementation covers the period of 1976-
80. The high growth rates experienced during 1971-75 are planned to continue.
The pattern of growth planned for this period suggests that the present decade
has been viewed as a decisive period in the achievement of long-term objectives,
during which Romania will overcome the major constraints on its transformation
from a developing country into a developed and technologically advanced coun-
try. There have been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year
Plan targets during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets
for standards of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh
Conference of the Romanian Communist Party (RCP) revised targets for all other
areas of the Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions
were taken to substantially increase work incentives by allowing workers to
participate in sharing the profits of enterprises.
17.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as was achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which is quite an ambitious target, and an improvement on previous
results in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 per-
cent per annum. A campaign to increase the utilization of existing capacities
and to make significant economies in the consumption of raw materials and
intermediate goods is being implemented throughout the economy, especially
in the construction sector. As a result, a reduction of lei 109 billion in
investment costs throughout 1976-80 is planned. The volume of foreign trade
is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a much
faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in current
prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of exports
so that it exceeds that of imports, to pursue its long-term objective of
reducing its external debt and allowing for the accumulation of reserves.
While the rate of consumption growth will remain below that of production, it
will nevertheless be increased. Real wages are now to increase by 32.3 per-
cent over the five years compared with the previous target of 22 percent. As
a result, targets for socialist retail trade and services for the population
have been increased.
18.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country, causing severe damage in the
vicinity of Bucharest. The Government estimated that 1,570 people were killed,
11,300 injured and that it caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion
of the total damage was to buildings and associated utilities, of which US$1
billion was in housing. Of the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was
in inventories and production. The earthquake also had a substantial detri-
mental effect on the country's balance of payments' prospects; the net balance
of payments cost is estimated to be approximately US$630 million during 1977
and 1978.



-6-
19.       Immediately after the earthquake, the Government began clearance
aad reconstruction work and was remarkably successful in overcoming its imme-
diate effects. Debris was cleared, housing was found for the vast majority
of those left homeless, and most enterprises were returned within a few weeks
to full production. To deal with the substantial longer-term effects of the
earthquake, the Government instituted a comprehensive reconstruction program,
which, it is planned, will permit the impact of the earthquake to be eliminated
by 1980. The resources for the additional tasks during this plan period are
expected to be secured through greater efforts of the population, utilization
of the army for reconstruction work and from savings of production expenditures
obtained from improvements in efficiency of production which are to be greater
than originally anticipated. The reconstruction effort will impose additional
tasks upon the construction sector which, in recent years, has been operating
very close to its capacity; as a result, the reconstruction program is designed
to relieve the constraints of the sector by improving its efficiency, and by
advancing the commissioning of new capacity in the construction sector and
those industrial branches which supply building materials, construction equip-
ment, and equipment for the building materials industry. Further details are
given in Parts IV and V.
20.       In 1977, the economy continued its rapid development but except for
industrial production, many important plan targets were not met. National
income increased by 8.6 percent compared to a plan target of 11.3 percent
and an increase in the previous year of 10.5 percent. Industrial production
increased substantially more than the plan target (12.5 versus 10.5 percent).
In entities damaged by the earthquake, production was restored rapidly through
repairing equipment, even if only on a makeshift basis to start with.
Part of the lost production due to the impact of the earthquake was also off-
set by increases in labor productivity which were above plan targets. Plan
targets in construction, however, were not met and output was still far short
of the growth needed to replace the decrease in the housing stock due to the
earthquake. Agricultural output was planned to increase by between 2 and
14 percent depending on weather conditions and exceed the 1976 record produc-
tion. It actually fell short of 1976 results by 1.3 percent due to less favor-
able weather. Investments increased by 11.5 percent which, although higher
than the 8.2 percent achieved in 1976, fell short of the target of 16.7
percent. The investment plans of some ministries were underfulfilled because
of the continuing bottlenecks in construction. While measures were taken to
correct these problems, apparently their effect was not fully felt in 1977.
Finally the volume of trade increased in currrent prices close to that planned
(14.8 versus 15.5 percent) but both the 1976 (14.5 percent) and the 1977 rates
are below the revised Five Year Plan target which requires an increase of over
15 percent per annum in real terms.
21.       Published details on the 1978 Plan indicate growth rates similar to
those planned for 1977. National income is planned to increase by 11-11.5
percent, industrial production by 10.6 percent and agricultural production
by between 6.9 and 16.1 percent. Investment is planned to increase by 16.8
percent and foreign trade by 19.1 percent. Real incomes will increase by
7.9 percent.



-7-
External Assistance
22.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism.
Gross inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-term loans
were US$946 million in 1976, consisting mostly of financial and supliers'
credits with relatively short repayment periods. This gross inflow represented
a net inflow of some US$464 million after accounting for the country's repay-
ment obligations. In the first six months of 1977 the gross medium- and long-
term capital inflow on convertible account was US$501 million, consisting
largely of suppliers' credits. The net inflow for the same period was US$151
million.
23.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of December
1977, eight joint venture agreements had been signed and two more announced.
In contrast with the earlier ventures, which were of small scale involving
total direct foreign investments of about US$10 to US$15 million, the latest
ventures involve far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977
with Citroen, involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and
will lead to a total capital inflow of aproximately US$250 million. Even
larger inflows are expected as a result of an agreement with Kuwait for the
construction of a petrochemical complex costing US$1.25 billion. Romania also
receives medium-term trade credits from U.S. Eximbank and trades under ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES credit guarantees with the United Kingdom, France and the
Federal Republic of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the
first East European recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving US$80
million for the expansion of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded
in securing a US$100 million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general
cooperation agreement and also a US$420 million loan from Iran on concessionary
terms. During 1977, it also negotiated two Eurodollar loans totalling US$125
million. In January 1978 Romania negotiated a further US$100 million on the
Eurocurrency market. As part of its strategy to secure long-term energy sup-
plies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract for purchase of coal with a
United States coal mine; a banking consortium provided a US$53 million loan
to finance the purchase in April 1978. In addition, Romania has access to
non-convertible currency investment credits from the International Investment
Bank, Moscow.
24.       Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible currencies is
still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of such long-term devel-
opment finance, though Romania is making efforts to improve its access to
financial markets. The Bank's presence on a significant scale would have a
positive influence in this regard and serve to build outside confidence in
the country, thereby enhancing in the long-term its independent access to
the world's financial markets.



-8-
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.    Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
26.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
27.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards and if its present momentum is maintained, Romania will be among
the more developed of the high-income, developing countries in the 1980s.
The Government plans to achieve this high growth rate by emphasizing, first,
the utilization of the country's own resources and a large local investment
effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and natural resources.
However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets and its long term
plans for creating a competitive industrial economy, it will have to attract
foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support its development
efforts. The earthquake has accentuated this need for international resources.
Creditworthiness
28.       As of June 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external debt
amounted to US$3,266 million. Most of these debts (US$3,174 million) were
denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
Germany, France, UK and Italy. While the total debt does not appear excessive
in relation to the volume and growth of external trade, average maturities are
relatively short and convertible debt service payments are estimated to be in
the order of US$700 million a year in 1978 and 1979. The convertible debt
service ratio is estimated to have been 19 percent in 1977 and is expected to
be 18 percent in 1978.



29.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million in 1976. The preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the
European Communities in June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such
exports as is the granting of most favored nation status by the U.S. Since
the early 1970s, the Government has restricted the use of short-term credit
from western suppliers in an effort to improve the structure of the country's
external debt. In view of the earthquake's impact upon the balance of pay-
ments, the Government indicated that there would be a temporary reversal of
this trend and short-term debt increased again in the first six months of
1977. Assuming a continuation of present export and debt management policies,
we estimate that the debt service ratio will be somewhat above 20 percent
during the remainder of the 1976-80 plan period, after which it will decline,
reaching about 15 percent in 1985. The country's present outward-looking
posture, the success of both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies,
and its potential for continued development, all support the judgment that
Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank lending.
30.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With regard to the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S.
claims began in September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based
upon agreements reached in May 1975. Settlement of British claims proved
more difficult, but a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank
was also informed in late 1976 of certain Swedish claims concerning public
loans from the pre-war period, nationalized Swedish property and other
interests, such as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second
World War.   The eleventh meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was
held in Bucharest in October 1976 and further discussions were planned at a
date to be established through diplomatic channels.    The Bank has been unable
to obtain a consistent picture from the two Governments of the present status
of this matter and has, therefore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities
to clarify their respective positions directly with each other as soon as
possible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania
to US$882.8 million for seventeen loans in agriculture, industry and power.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation improved considerably during 1976 and 1977. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of April 30, 1978.



- 10 -
32.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. Bank lending also aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to introduce new industrial technologies,
to improve the quality of products and production efficiency, to reduce pro-
duction costs and to provide for necessary electric power development. Market
aspects and marketing, especially for export goods, are also emphasized.
Special attention is given to agriculture which is heavily dependent upon
favorable weather and where productivity levels are still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration.    Projects for
irrigation and drainage, power, poultry production, pig production, horticul-
ture, chemical plants, and seamless pipe production have been proposed. The
Government has also requested that the Bank consider lending for a major
navigation canal linking the Danube and Black Sea.
34.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for Romanian officials in Belgrade in October 1973 and in Bucharest in January/
February 1975, November/December 1975, January/February 1976, October/November
1976 and November/December 1977. Additional courses, including one in agri-
cultural project appraisal, are planned. The methodology taught in these
courses is becoming more widely known in Romania and is expected to begin to
supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for external
financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they will
provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance
from other sources.   The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 12 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 3 percent.
PART III - RATIONALE FOR SCOPE AND BENEFITS OF PROPOSED BANK ASSISTANCE
36.      The March 4 earthquake struck at a time when the construction sector
was already emerging as a constraint to Romania's development (para. 9).
The reconstruction requirements have further aggravated the difficulties,
particularly the availability of materials and equipment. The Government's
strategy has been to meet immediate reconstruction requirements by diverting
resources from construction activities in non-productive sectors, by deferring
other planned construction, and by advancing projects in its 1976-80 Plan that
increase output of building materials, equipment to produce building materials,
and earthmoving equipment. It is also strengthening institutions for earth-
quake monitoring, and construction design and research. As foreign exchange



is critical to the country's planned development and continues to be a con-
straint, the Government minimized its reliance on increased imports and
reduction of planned exports to reduce adverse effects on its balance of
payments position. The country averted the urgent need for massive imports of
materials by accommodating earthquake victims in housing planned to relieve
shortages existing before the earthquake, and by other provisional measures.
The country, nonetheless, needed to increase imports and to defer exports of
products needed for the reconstruction effort, and was forced to increase
its international borrowing significantly. Thus, the bulk of the burden
of recovery has been borne by the Romanian population with some external
rehabilitation assistance (see paras. 49-55).
37.       The Government is using domestic resources as much as possible to
finance the needs of delayed reconstruction and deferred construction activi-
ties. This program is being implemented within the context of the overall
plan to strengthen the construction sector so that it can in parallel meet the
needs of rapid industrial growth. The proposed project would assist the Gov-
ernment with its remaining rehabilitation efforts, which have been constrained
due to large import requirements, and in implementing this program. The
program requires imports of specialized equipment, machinery, and components
to expedite expansion of capacity in critical construction-related industries.
The proposed loan would assist in financing these imports for the expansion
of some of the country's largest enterprises engaged in the manufacture of
construction materials, construction equipment, industrial equipment and
machine tools. The loan would contribute both to reconstruction, and would
substantially strengthen the overall and long-run position of the country's
construction related industries. This would alleviate a significant con-
straint to Romania's construction sector which was becoming a bottleneck to
the country's rapid economic development. Finally the country's efforts to
develop adequate designs and building methods to prevent extensive damage from
future earthquakes also rely on imports of very modern equipment, which would
also be financed under the project.
PART IV - THE 1977 EARTHQUAKE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES
Background
38.       Romanian development has suffered serious setbacks as a result of
natural disasters, including the 1975 Flood (Loan 1169) and severe earth-
quakes. The country is an active earthquake area and has a long history of
severe earthquakes, the last in 1940. It has a number of small active earth-
quake centers.   The major center lies about 200 kilometers northeast of
Bucharest where the north-south range of the Carpathians meets the east-west
range.  At this point, three tectonic plates meet and energy accumulates in
the subcrustal zone of the Carpathian arch as a result of the south and east
tectonic plates moving down below the arch and pushing against the north-west
Transylvanian plate.
39.       On March 4, 1977, there was a strong earthquake, centered on the
judet (district) of Vrancea, and measuring on the Mercalli scale 9 in



- 12 -
Bucharest, 8 at Focsani and Iasi, 7-8 at Bacau, 7 at Cimpulung-Muscel and 4 at
Timisoara. (See Map no. 13523). The shock waves extended largely in a north-
east to southwest direction, covering approximately 10,000 square kilometers
of eastern Romania and also affecting areas of the Soviet Union and Bulgaria.
Waves were also propagated in a southerly direction. The force and character-
istics of the 1977 earthquake varied from area to area, depending upon soil
conditions and location. In Bucharest, the earthquake generated at soil level
a maximum horizontal force equivalent to 25 percent of gravitational accelera-
tion (981 cm/sec). This force was responsible for most of the damage.
Impact of the 1977 Earthquake
40.       The earthquake had serious effects upon both the population and
the economy. One thousand five hundred and seventy people were killed and
more than 11,300 were injured, many seriously. A substantial number of those
trapped by collapse of buildings were rescued due to the prompt mobilization
of the armed forces, militia and the population in general. The damage left
thousands of families homeless and destroyed US$95 million worth of the
population's possessions.
41.       An inventory of damage to assets and potential production losses was
prepared immediately after the earthquake and is summarized by sector and by
type of damage in the following table.
Table 1: INVENTORY OF DAMAGE CAUSED BY THE EARTHQUAKE
(in millions of US$)
of which
Construction                Raw materials,
(buildings,    Equipment     intermediate   Pro-
Total water supply Installations   products and   duction
Sector             damage     etc.)    and transport consumer goods losses
1. Industry              447.3     102.7        20.0            28.4       296.2
2. Agriculture           124.4      46.4         10.7           17.0         50.3
3. Transport,
Communications
and Retail Trade       93.2      52.1         14.4           14.7        12.0
4. Health, Education
and Socio-cultural    167.3     147.5        18.1             -           1.7
5. Housing             1,032.8   1,015.0         17.8            -             -
6. Local Industry,
Utilities and
Construction           87.6      56.4         23.3            3.4         4.5
7. Miscellaneous
Private Goods          95.4       -            -             95.4           -
Total                 2,048.0   1,420.1        104.3          158.9       364.7
42.       Most of the damage caused by the earthquake was to buildings and
other types of structure, in particular to housing.    Most of the destruction



- 13 -
of the equipment, machinery and other fixed installations was due to the
collapse of buildings. Losses in fixed assets and working capital, coupled
with the disruptive effects of the earthquake, led to the significant losses
in production shown in the above table.
43.       The billion dollar damage in housing was a consequence of over
156,000 apartments being destroyed or very seriously damaged in the urban
areas and approximately 21,500 in rural areas. In addition, almost 366,000
apartments in urban areas and 117,000 houses in rural areas needed repair. In
industry, a large number of enterprises in different subsectors, especially
machine building, light-industry and chemical plants, suffered losses to
buildings and equipment in addition to loss of inventories. These industrial
branches consequently suffered most of the reported production losses. A
large number of industrial plants had to temporarily reduce production. Sub-
sequent restoration of normal or near normal levels of production was accom-
plished through temporary arrangements in a number of cases, and by producing
under conditions that affect the quality of the product, such as at Viscofil,
a producer of rayon fiber, which suffered extensive damage.
44.       In agriculture, there was damage to buildings, silos, stores and
some losses of livestock. In the transport and telecommunications sector,
the major damage to fixed assets was to the Computer Center which collapsed,
leading to difficulties in the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications'
planning and control functions, significantly of freight transport.
45.       The regional distribution of the earthquake's impact was widespread;
damage was reported in 23 of the 40 judets. However, in most of the districts
outside the transmission path of the shock-waves, the damage was relatively
small and scattered. The major impact was felt in those judets lying to the
southeast, south and northeast of the epicenter (Teleorman, Dolj and Prahova),
and most especially in the Bucharest municipality which suffered US$1.4 bil-
lion of the US$2 billion of total damage caused by the earthquake.
46.       The impact of the earthquake has also been felt, and continues
to be felt, in the external sector. The Government has estimated that the
overall impact on the current account in 1977 and 1978 will be approximately
US$630 million. US$250 million is expected to be lost in exports over the
two years, partly because building materials and machinery and equipment will
be used domestically for the reconstruction effort and partly because export
orders from trading partners have been lost. US$350 million is expected to be
the additional amount of imports, chiefly in the form of machinery, equipment,
and basic raw materials, required by the reconstruction effort and the expan-
sion of the construction sector's capacity. Finally, the Government has
estimated, that during 1977, tourism receipts were US$30 million lower than
expected.
The Reconstruction Effort
Organization and Strategy
47.       The rehabilitation and reconstruction effort was swiftly organized
in two phases and has been highly effective. The first phase consisted of



- 14 -
debris removal, search and rescue operations, providing medical care and
emergency shelter as needed, and meeting the basic food needs of the popula-
tion. The second phase concentrated on the resettlement of the affected
families and the return of production to normal levels. Both these objectives
were given top priority. In the first week, the bulk of the efforts were con-
centrated in the heavily affected Bucharest area and were managed by an inter-
ministerial and inter-agency central commission. Under the second phase, in
order to accelerate reconstruction and meet more effectively the needs of each
district affected by the earthquake, the responsibility was decentralized to
the chairman of the People's Council in each district and to the mayor of
Bucharest. The responsibility for debris clearance and rehabilitation for
specific areas was placed with individual construction enterprises.
48.       The Government's stragegy has been to undertake the rehabilitation
and reconstruction effort without significantly affecting the overall imple-
mentation of output targets in the Five-Year Development Plan. The new
requirements for materials, equipment and manpower necessitated by the recon-
struction have been integrated with those of Romania's longer term development
needs within the context of the plan. They are largely met by an extensive
additional resource mobilization effort, discussed further below. With the
integration of reconstruction in the ongoing development program, priority has
been given to those efforts that do not require any substantial reallocation
of either investment funds or equipment that may adversely affect other enter-
prises' performance in meeting plan targets.
Resource Mobilization
49.       An intensive resource mobilization effort was organized immediately
following the earthquake and the population provided spirited support with
volunteer labor and financial resources. On the domestic front, this effort
consisted of both enacting new measures to assist in alleviating the impact of
the earthquake, as well as strengthening and/or accelerating, on account of the
earthquake, the implementation of measures already in progress. Externally,
the Government sought material and monetary assistance, initially for emergency
relief and subsequently for rehabilitation and reconstruction, from other
government and multilateral organizations and through recourse to borrowing
from the international capital markets.
The Domestic Effort
50.       Measures implemented to meet the urgent manpower, materials, and
equipment needs for debris clearance and rehabilitation were:
(i) the extension of work into all Sundays in March, two
Sundays in April and May and one Sunday per month
throughout the remainder of 1977;
(ii) the mobilization of the working population not directly
involved in the production process, i.e., white collar
workers and technical, professional and managerial
staff of enterprises and ministries, as well as of
youth and student organizations;



- 15 -
(iii)  the reallocation of construction workers from non-
affected parts of the country and use of the army in
the rehabilitation process;
(iv) the postponement of the planned shortening of the work
week (from 48 to 44 hours) from 1978 to 1979;
(v) the diversion of all equipment not directly used in pro-
duction process to construction enterprises;
(vi) the reduction of exports of construction materials such
as cement, timber, pipes, tubes and fuels; and
(vii)  the postponement of some regular construction activity.
51.       In addition, the Government intensified its campaign to increase
efficiency in the utilization of existing construction capacity and to effect
significant economies in use of construction raw materials and intermediate
goods. The Central Institute for Research, Design and Guidelines on Con-
struction accelerated its production of standardized designs which seek to
minimize the use of materials, especially steel and cement.
52.       It is difficult to quantify this effort, but unpaid extra days
worked (roughly 90 million) amount, roughly to 6.3 billion lei. Army, youth
organization and other reallocated effort would probably be somewhat more.
Contributions in pledges of earnings and direct donations not mentioned
above are estimated to amount to roughly another 6.5 billion lei. This adds
up to almost 20 billion lei in addition to the private homeowners contribu-
tion for damages beyond the small amounts they received under the prevailing
insurance system, because almost all homeowners were very underinsured.
53.       An additional workers' contribution consisted of pledges of both the
affected and non-affected enterprises to achieve higher production targets
than previously planned and to reduce the norms of consumption of material
expenditures in production beyond the initially envisaged plan levels. This
contribution has ramifications both for 1977 and for future years, as the
implied higher productivity levels and improved norms are being used as a
basis for bonuses and for projected improvements in future years.
International Assistance for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
54.       The international community responded swiftly to Romania's immediate
post-earthquake needs. Initial world response, substantially coordinated by
the United Nations Disaster Relief Organization (UNDRO) in Geneva, was
oriented towards meeting emergency medical and basic food needs. The World
Food Program made a contribution of US$3 million in food aid to the homeless
and to volunteers engaged in rescue operations, removal of debris and demoli-
tion of dangerous buildings. Within a week however, the appeals for emergency
aid were halted and additional needs were met on a selective bilateral basis
between the Government and missions of donor governments.



- 16 -
55.       In total, 55 countries and 12 multilateral organizations contributed
US$35 million in cash and substantial contributions in kind. These included
construction of a 450-bed hospital in Zimnicea, industrial equipment and spare
parts, and construction materials and equipment. The U.S. provided the
largest cash contribution of about US$20 million. The U.S.S.R. contribution,
the largest in kind, included among others, a complete plant with a production
capacity of 70-80,000 sq. m. per year of concrete prefabricated building
elements. In addition to receiving a UNDP contribution of US$1.6 million,
Romania also negotiated credit facilities totalling SDR 111.6 million
(US$130.3 million) under the compensatory and stand-by arrangements with IMF.
As of May 1, 1978, Romania had drawn SDR 72.5 million (US$84.6 million) from
the facilities.
The Status of the Reconstruction Program
56.       The extensive mobilization of resources and the effective control in
their allocation have led to a swift implementation of the immediate rehabili-
tation and reconstruction program. Progress achieved is evident even to a
casual visitor, especially in Bucharest.
57.       All those whose residences were destroyed have been housed (mainly
by giving them priority for newly completed housing) and provided with essen-
tials by the State. All manufacturing enterprises affected by the earth-
quake except one, Viscofil, a rayon producer, are again at or close to full
production.
58.       The bulk of the emergency reconstruction effort will have been
undertaken by the end of 1978. The longer term reconstruction activities to
be undertaken last are those requiring large amounts of materials or equip-
ment. For example, although the displaced families have been provided new
housing, collapsed buildings have been cleared but not rebuilt. Also, con-
struction activities from which resources were diverted remain to be under-
taken. In line with the Government's strategy, these will be undertaken,
within the longer term plan for the strengthening of the construction sector,
by accelerating domestic capacity in the industrial subsectors that support
construction through the production of materials and equipment.
Preventive Measures
Seismic Research and the National Earthquake Protection Plan
59.       Systematically-kept seismic records in Romania date from 1935,
although specific studies on seismic activity were started around 1890. Over
the past 30 years, most of the seismic research in Romania has been concerned
with earthquake engineering, and the collection of data for the design of risk
maps, which plot the probability of earthquakes of different intensities. At
present, a seismic risk map is under preparation by the National Center for
Seismology (NCS). NCS was set up on February 15, 1977, to develop a national
network of seismological centers linked to a computer center. This Center is
receiving US$1.16 million during 1977-79 from UNDP for equipment, fellowships



- 17 -
and consultants, and also, contributions from the People's Republic of
China, the Federal Republic of Germany, USSR and Yugoslavia.
60.       Romania has also been involved in a regional scheme for seismic
research since 1970, with the collaboration of experts from USA and USSR.
Regional cooperation has been continued and expanded to cover earthquake
engineering problems, in particular seismic microzoning. The latter aims to
determine suitable zones for locating different structures based on the
characteristics of different soils and rocks in transmitting seismic waves.
61.       Seismic studies and records, and the experience of the 1940 earth-
quake, also provided the basis for the seismic standards written into the
building code introduced in 1941. The code was updated in 1950 and rewritten
in 1963. Over the post-war period, experimental research has been carried
out within the Building Research Institute (INCERC) on the design of large
buildings and other structures and upon new construction methods, particularly
prefabrication, and on their resistance to earthquakes. Using information
gained from these experiences, the building code was being further revised in
1977 when the earthquake struck. The code was modified further and reissued
towards the end of 1977 with more stringent seismic standards based on the
seismic data gained from the latest earthquake. Additionally all new building
methods must now be tested for resistance to earthquakes.
62.       In the past, lack of resources has prevented testing of all new
designs and construction methods. To remedy these deficiencies, it is
now planned to expand the National Center for Earthquake Engineering (NCEE),
which was established recently within INCERC. The expansion would require
NCEE to be equipped with modern experimental equipment and instruments in
order to conduct laboratory and on-site tests to determine earthquake stan-
dards for structures and construction systems using advanced simulation
techniques. These tests will support the Center's work, which will be
carried out in collaboration with INCERC and the Central Institute for
Research Design, in developing experimental models and structures, designing
construction technologies, developing criteria for seismic designs and devel-
oping microzoning seismic maps. The Center has received US$176,000 from UNDP
for development of its facilities, but is in urgent need of substantial
additional equipment if it is to become fully operational in 1980, as cur-
rently planned.
63.       The Center's work is being done as part of a National Earthquake
Protection Plan. Immediately after the earthquake, NCEE, jointly with NCS,
was charged with developing this plan by early 1979. It will contain building
standards, criteria for urban and rural planning, and special studies upon the
impact of earthquakes on special structures, such as dams, and upon the
psychological impact on the population. It will also propose arrangements for
human safety in earthquake-prone areas. The development of the plan and the
activities of NCEE and NCS are to fall under the Office for Protection in
Seismic Regions, which is under the leadership of the Vice Prime Minister and
contains representatives of Ministries and other concerned agencies, such as
the Red Cross and the army.



- 18 -
PART V - THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR AND RELATED
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES
The Construction Sector
64.       Expansion and efficient operation of the construction sector is
essential to enable Romania to meet the needs of construction work deferred
by earthquake rehabilitation activity and for the implementation of its
planning targets. Also, the industrial subsectors that support construction
(manufacturers of building materials, earthmoving and construction equipment,
and equipment to produce cement and other basic materials) will need to be
expanded under an accelerated time schedule. A brief overview of the impor-
tance of these subsectors in the economy, the main constraints they face and
government measures to alleviate these constraints are given below. (A more
detailed discussion of the role, performance, organization, planning and
prospects of the industrial and construction sectors is given in the basic
economic report. 1/) The basic importance of the construction sector to the
economy (7.6 percent of national income), its rapid growth rate (11.5 percent
annually) and its principal constraints are summarized in para. 9 above.
Structurally, about 85 percent of organized construction is in the producers'
goods sector, with over 50 percent in industry. The share of housing has
increased steadily in recent years from 6.4 percent in 1971 to about 11 per-
cent in 1976. The sector employs about 850,000 workers, about 8 percent of
the labor force.
65.       Since rapid growth of the economy relied recently more on moderniza-
tion and expansion of existing enterprises than on new plants, the construc-
tion sector has been able to respond to the growth despite relatively less
rapid investment in the sector. The sector has also become somewhat more
efficient especially in the last decade, although a great deal more remains to
be done. The biggest transformation in the sector has been in mechanization
as part of a general policy of modernization and increased efficiency. As a
result, about 90 percent of earthwork is now being undertaken by mechanical
means.
66.       Total construction activity will amount to 400 billion lei, accord-
ing to the modified targets of the 1976-80 Plan, with revised annual growth
of 9 percent. About 50 percent of the construction activity will be in the
industrial sector, 10 percent in agriculture and 7 percent in transport and
telecommunications. Due to the earthquake and the Government's desire to
eliminate the housing shortage by 1990, the Five-Year Plan targets for the
housing sector have also been modified, providing for a substantial increase
in the units to be built. The initial target of 815,000 apartments over
1976-80 was increased to 1,005,000 units.
1/   Romania:  The Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist
Planning (Report No. 1601-RO March 31, 1978, Chapters Ten and Twelve).



- 19 -
67.       The targets for the sector are quite ambitious and performance in
1976 and 1977 has been disappointing. While in the past plan periods, con-
struction sector efficiency has generally increased, certain difficulties
have been experienced in the sector which have adversely affected its perfor-
mance. Construction work has been behind plan targets; in 1976 only half of
the target was fulfilled. Shortfalls were also experienced in 1977. The
shortfalls in the construction sector were the major factors accounting for
the markedly slower growth in total investment than planned.
68.       These shortfalls reflect:   the delays in delivery of equipment and
spare parts for domestic use; shortage of materials from both the domestic
industry and from abroad; delays in completion of designs; overdesign; ineffi-
ciencies in the organization at the site; delay in adoption of modern methods;
and manpower shortages arising from recruitment difficulties and from slower
productivity increases than planned. Construction is emerging as a general
constraint in the current Five-Year Plan since the shortfall in meeting its
plan targets has also affected the fulfillment of targets in industry in
general. The situation has been considerably aggravated by the additional
requirements of the post-earthquake reconstruction effort.
69.       In order to ensure that the sector does not become a constraint in
the reconstruction effort and in the implementation of the development plan,
a series of measures has been taken by the government, the most important of
which are:
-    to increase the sector's capacity, by increasing the
supply of construction material and equipment from the
local industrial subsectors that produce them;
-    to improve efficiency by providing for more universal
and better planned mechanization through the provision
to the construction enterprises of needed modern
equipment;
-    to improve quality of building materials;
-    to expand and improve design capabilities;
-    to increase prefabrication in construction and adopt other
modern methods to provide better quality control, reduce
the quantity of materials consumed and, most significantly,
lower on-site manpower use through higher productivity;
-    to extend the daily period of on-site operations up to 20-24
hours, as compared to 10-12 hours in the previous years with
special wages as a recruitment incentive.
70.       All these measures have been assessed and found to address the core
of the difficulties in the sector and are bound to have an impact in correct-
ing them.  Their results, however, could only be judged in about two years'
time when sufficient lead time has been allowed for most of them to work out.



- 20 -
In order to undertake these measures, the investment funds to the construction
sector over the 1976-80 Plan period have been increased, in December 1977,
from 34.1 billion lei to 40 billion lei. In addition, substantial changes
have been made in the investment plans of the construction-related subsectors
to increase their ability to supply construction material and equipment.
Industries Manufacturing Construction Materials and Equipment
71.       The development of the construction sector to meet investment and
reconstruction requirements is being supported by strengthening of all
construction-related industry. Production of construction materials and
equipment is being increased and is in turn supported by intensified manufac-
ture of basic machinery and equipment for these industries. Revised invest-
ment plans following the earthquake indicate a 7.3 billion lei increase in
the construction materials category between 1978-80, and a 11.0 billion
lei increase in the engineering and metalworking subsector responsible for
manufacture of equipment and machinery. A brief review of these industrial
subsectors and the impact of the earthquake on their development is presented
below. (A more detailed discussion of the industrial sector and its component
subsectors is provided in the basic economic report. 1/)
72.       The construction materials subsector has maintained its relative
importance in the industrial structure over the past decade, and in 1976 con-
tributed 3.1 percent of industrial product and accounted for 4.2 percent of
industrial employment. Output growth in the subsector averaged 9.8 percent in
the last Plan (1971-1975), falling short of the established target of 12.8-
14.2 percent. The shortfall primarily resulted from the fact that the targets
are unrealistic in view of the existing capacities. Following further efforts
to increase production, the subsector output rose by over 14 percent in 1976.
Of the key products, cement production exceeded 13 million tons of which 2.7
million tons was exported. Output of glass rose to 71 million square meters,
with around 17 million reaching export markets. Exports for both these prod-
ucts more than doubled between 1970-76 contributing significantly to Romania's
need for foreign exchange. The most significant growth in the 1970-76 period
was shown by prefabricated reinforced concrete elements, where output increased
around 13 percent annually reflecting planned emphasis on increased prefabrica-
tion.
73.       Production in the subsector is carried out by over 200 enterprises
spread across the country; cement capacity has been developed at ten locations
to meet regional requirements. In cement and associated products the country
enjoys the advantage of local availability of all inputs, except direct and
indirect energy, in which Romania is now a net importer, and of using largely
domestic plant. The technology in the subsector as a whole is uneven, with
modern facilities functioning along-side others employing outdated tech-
nologies.
1/   Romania:  The Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist
Planning (Report No. 1601-RO), March 31, 1978, Chapter Ten.



- 21 -
74.       The initial 1976-80 Plan established a target growth rate of 9.0-
10.0 percent per year for the subsector based on the expected growth of con-
struction activity. The targets also took into account plans to reduce
material consumption by elimination of over-dimensioning, the use of light-
weight materials produced domestically, method of improvements and design
modifications. Cement production was planned to grow at an average rate of
11.2% reaching 20 million tons by 1980, with exports rising 13.5 percent
annually to a level of 4.5 million tons. The production of prefabricated
concrete elements was also planned to grow but at a lower rate of 8.3 percent
in view of the limitations of the technology currently available locally and
constraints in domestic equipment manufacture.
75.       Following the earthquake, capacity additions in most construction
materials have been advanced within the Five-Year Plan in line with the Gov-
ernment's reconstruction strategy. For 1978-80, investment in the subsector
has been supplemented by 7.3 billion lei and output is expected to exceed
initial plans by 16.0 billion lei. Planned growth of exports is being cur-
tailed in light of domestic needs. For cement, 30 percent of the reconstruc-
tion requirements estimated at over 5 million tons are planned to be met by
expanding capacity at existing locations one to two years ahead of plan, while
70 percent should be met through reduction/deferral of exports. The past
emphasis on prefabricated elements is being stepped up. A number of new
units, around 50, are now planned leading to an additional 2.7 million cubic
meters in supplementary production in the Plan period, and a growth rate of
11.8 percent as against initial plans of 8.3 percent. Similar changes are in
effect for other materials.
76.       The growth strategy in the subsector appears to be sound.    Expansion
in the first instance geared to make up for delays and deferrals caused by the
earthquake continues to be based on the objective of regional development.
Modern technologies are being introduced to supplement and eventually replace
outdated operations. In the production of cement, the plan aims at signif-
icant reductions of energy consumption through the conversion and phasing out
of energy-inefficient capacities. The increased emphasis on prefabrication
offers the dual benefit of better quality control and reduction of on-site
labor requirements. The plans to accelerate these developments to meet
requirements for catch-up construction activities, which have been postponed
due to the earthquake, are largely constrained by equipment requirements.
Though much of the cement plant is planned to be manufactured domestically,
specialized equipment and components must still be imported. To accomplish
the objectives of increased prefabrication, new units require a number of
imported production lines incorporating modern technologies to supplement
those of domestic manufacture. Consequently, success of this strategy and
plans in material production depends on the availability of these imports, and
on the ability of the domestic machine-making subsector to respond effectively.
77.       The engineering and metalworking subsector has recently been the
leading growth area. in industry. Strong Government emphasis has resulted in
average annual growth rates of well over 15 percent since 1950. The subsector
has increased in importance from a share of 13.3 percent of industrial product
in 1950 to 33.3 percent in 1976.   The rapid growth has been accomplished by



- 22 -
the assimilation of large amounts of technology and know-how in a short time.
The industry continues to rely on imports for its high technology requirements.
78.       The production of plant/equipment for different industries includ-
ing construction materials, machine tools, and equipment for construction,
agriculture, and transportation has advanced significantly. In each product
category, production is concentrated in a small number of large plants. These
end-product plants are adequately backed by other facilities supplying parts
and components. Research and development activities are receiving increased
investment and requirements of skilled labor are being met by extensive training
programs and by using existing large plants as training grounds to prepare per-
sonnel for new facilities.
79.       The industry's progress is also reflected in its development of
export markets, where domestic markets alone did not justify economic-sized
plants. Subsector exports increased their share of total exports from 18.8
percent in 1965 to 25.7 percent in 1976, primarily comprising: simple machine
tools; plant for power generation/transmission, exploration, and chemical/
petrochemical industries; and farm equipment, including tractors. However,
there is a continued need for new technology and import of sophisticated
machine tools.
80.       For the current Five-Year Plan, the subsector has been allocated
21 percent of total planned investment and was expected to grow at an annual
average rate of 11.8-12.6 percent, almost 2 percent faster than industry as a
whole. The majority of investment funds were earmarked for large engineering
projects reflecting a continued Government strategy of intensification for
basic equipment manufacture.
81.       After the earthquake, production targets for construction-related
output have been significantly increased to meet the requirements related
to reconstruction and to increase the supply of equipment to the construction
sector. Production of cement and prefabricated plant equipment is planned to
increase by 10,000 tons between 1977-80. The increases will be achieved by
advancing present implementation schedules and in some cases through product-
mix changes. At Intreprinderea de Utilaj Greu (I.U.G.) Iasi, a production
level of 150,000 tons/year planned to be achieved after 1982 is now targeted
for 1980 partly to support capital equipment demands of the construction
materials industry. Intreprinderea de Masini Grele (I.M.G.) Bucharest started
production of large cement kilns in 1977, one year ahead of plan, in lieu of
other products such as turbine casings, to meet the requirements of advanced
installation of cement lines. Intreprinderea de Masini-Unelte si Agregate
(I.M.U.A.) Bucharest will begin production of more advanced machine tools
reaching a total annual capacity of around 50,000 tons by 1979, one year ahead
of plan. This will increase output of machinery by over 5,000 tons between
1978-80. Overall production of machine tools has been supplemented by 20,000
tons in this period, partly to support the manufacture of equipment for the
construction materials industry and of construction equipment. Production
targets for construction equipment have also been increased 10-15 percent
across a broad range of items including excavators, graders, scrapers, cranes
and dump trucks. The introduction of new large capacity models has been
advanced.



- 23 -
82.       These plans generally reflect an intensification of past strategy
where industrialization has been successfully led by the growth of the
engineering and chemical subsectors. Accomplishment of accelerated plans
is again constrained by the need for imports. The subsector enterprises
are faced with large requirements of special machine tools, control equipment
and special components. Despite parallel expansions in the machine tools
industry, many of the larger specialized machine tools cannot be manufactured
domestically and need to be imported. Manufacturers of construction equipment
are also faced with the need for higher imports of components to supplement
local manufacture. Where introduction of new models has been expedited, the
development of components for domestic manufacture is planned to proceed
concurrently with production in the early years. This timing forces more
intensive reliance on imports in the short-term.
PART VI - THE PROJECT
Background
83.       The Romanian Government requested in early March 1977 Bank assis-
tance, to help overcome the damage caused by the earthquake. In response to
the Bank's request for a concrete proposal, the Government provided a statement
of the damage in July, and information on specific enterprises to be financed,
required to develop a project, in September. A preparation/appraisal mission
visited Romania from October 25 to November 9 and there was a brief follow-up
mission from March 27-30, 1978. The proposed loan has been formulated on the
basis of the missions' findings. Negotiations were held in Washington in April,
1978. The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. 0. Cezarie, Vice-President,
Investment Bank and included representatives of the Ministry of Finance and
the Investment Bank.
Project Objectives and Description
84.       The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Government
in its efforts to:
(i) carry out remaining short-term reconstruction;
(ii) strengthen domestic construction capability to meet
the needs of the current development plan, during
which period all earthquake damage is now scheduled
to be repaired;
(iii) maximize domestic manufacture of building materials,
of equipment that produces them, and of construction
equipment; and
(iv) limit damage from future earthquakes through the National
Earthquake Protection Plan.



- 24 -
The proposed project would supplement the enormous domestic expenditure and
efforts in manpower, management and institution-building described in paras.
49-53 with vitally needed imports of special equipment incorporating advanced
technology, machinery and components.
85.       To achieve these objectives the project would assist:    damaged
enterprises requiring immediate reconstruction (up to US$13.5 million);
enterprises in critical subsectors related to construction in accelerating
expansion of capacity for the production of construction materials, machinery
and plant for construction related industry, and construction equipment (up
to US$49.5 million); and the National Center for Earthquake Engineering being
developed as part of the Protection Plan (up to US$7 million).
8.6.      The project would finance direct imports for selected eligible enter-
prises. The project consists of a specified list of imports amounting to US$70
million for those beneficiaries, from which US$60 million will be financed by
the Bank. The project scope excludes local cost items, indirect imports and
those direct imports, for which procurement was very advanced at appraisal,
making it difficult to apply procedures according to Bank guidelines.
Eligible Beneficiaries and Project Impact
87.       The enterprises to be assisted are:    the Computer Center serving
the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications and two industrial enter-
prises, which were damaged in the earthquake; nine manufacturing enterprises
in construction-related subsectors; and the National Center of Earthquake
Engineering.
88.       The Computer Center for the Ministry of Transportion was established
and equipped in 1968. Additional equipment was added through 1976 to provide
capacity to meet increased requirements. The Center was staffed with over 400
specialists. It provided all computing services required by its Ministry.
The Center collapsed completely in the earthquake resulting in irreparable
damage to most equipment. Currently staff are expected to provide essential
services, as efficiently as possible, from seven different locations on an
available capacity basis. The two damaged industrial enterprises are Viscofil,
a producer of rayon fiber in Bucharest, and I.M.U.A. Bucharest, one of the
country's leading producers of machine tools. Viscofil was amongst the enter-
prises most seriously affected. It is presently operating in a makeshift
fashion, at around 60 percent of capacity, but at low efficiency and barely
acceptable quality. It is using salvaged machinery, largely repaired with
parts of more seriously damaged machines. Meanwhile the whole plant is being
reequipped by domestic manufacturers, with imports of special items. I.M.U.A.
Bucharest also suffered extensive damage to its office and service buildings.
Minor damage to production buildings has been largely repaired but some spe-
cialized equipment was irreparably damaged and needs to be replaced quickly by
imports.



- 25 -
89.       In the construction materials category, the project would also
finance key component imports to :ipplement local manufacture of four cement
lines. These are part of the expansion of cement capacity in two existing
locations, Megidia and Alesd, which is being accelerated to meet requirements.
The resulting additional capacity would account for 60 percent of the increase
under the revised Five-Year Plan. The project would also finance the importa-
tion of two modern production lines for the manufacture of lightweight pre-
fabricated wall and roof sections in the Buzau prefabricated materials enter-
prise.
90.       The project would finance machinery imports for four large enter-
prises in the engineering and metalworks subsector, with output directed to
producers of construction materials and equipment amongst other uses. These
are: I.U.G. Iasi, one of three heavy engineering complexes to be established
under the Plan; I.M.G. Bucharest, to be expanded to include heavy cement and
other plant/equipment in its products; I.M.U.A. Bucharest, mentioned above, to
be expanded into production of large, advanced industrial machine tools also
used to make construction equipment; and I.U.G. Braila, to be expanded to
increase production of different types of construction equipment. In these
cases, the financing represents a small proportion of major investments that
have been advanced within the Five Year Plan to meet reconstruction require-
ments.
91.       The project would also finance imports of components for construc-
tion equipment, primarily to meet supplementary production targets established
following the earthquake. In this category, project beneficiaries include:
I.U.G. Iasi, currently manufacturing haulers, scrapers and graders; I.U.G.
Braila, a manufacturer of excavators; Intreprinderea de Autocamione (I.A.)
Brasov, a manufacturer of concrete-mixers and dump trucks; and Uzina Mecanica
(U.M.) Timisoara, a manufacturer of cranes.
92.       Finally, the loan would assist the National Center for Earthquake
Engineering by providing vital experimental equipment to study the impact of
vibrations (simulating earthquakes) on building structures as part of the
effort to develop better designs and standards.
Financing
93.       The project has been formulated as a list of eligible direct imports
for the above beneficiaries with a total value of US$70 million in direct
foreign exchange costs. The estimates are based on c.i.f. prices in the first
quarter of 1978. The proposed Bank loan would finance US$60 million of these
eligible direct imports, permitting the Borrower a margin of flexibility in
the final selection of items to be procured under the loan. In view of this
flexibility and the large number of items to be procured, no physical contin-
gency or price escalation provisions have been included.



- 26 -
Table 2: ALLOCATION OF PROJECT IMPORTS
(US$ Million)
Category                                                Maximum Amount
I Damaged enterprises                                       13.5
II  Producers of construction materials                       4.5
III Manufacturers of machinery and plant
for construction-related industry                        25.0
IV  Manufacturers of construction equipment                  20.0
V  National Center for Earthquake Engineering                7.0
Total                                                    70.0
94.       The proposed loan would be made to the Investment Bank for 15 years,
including a grace period of 3 years, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
The Investment Bank is a specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance,
for investment projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture
and food processing. Its large technical and economic staff appraises all
major investment projects prior to submission to the Council of Ministers
for approval. Thereafter, it is the Investment Bank's responsibility to
ensure that the project is executed according to plan. The Investment Bank
is competently staffed, its appraisal and supervision procedures are satis-
factory, and result in a reasonable allocation of resources. It is Romanian
practice for the state to invest virtually all funds used for fixed assets
in industrial projects through the Investment Bank without formal on-lending
arrangements, and recover them through a variety of financial mechanisms
including net income transfers, taxes and depreciation payments. The Bank
loan would be passed on to the eligible beneficiaries in accordance with this
practice. However, for all industrial enterprises that are beneficiaries of
the Bank loan, their provision of funds to the State Budget and the Invest-
ment Bank would be sufficient to cover the lei equivalent of the debt service
on the portion of the loan allocated to them. This would include (notional)
repayment of principal plus interest at 10 percent per annum (Section 4.01
of the Loan Agreement). This arrangement is in line with our practice in
previous industrial projects. The foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan
would be borne by the Investment Bank.
95.       The financing of components for construction equipment (Category IV
above) would be channelled by the Investment Bank through the National Bank to
the eligible beneficiaries under the direction of the Investment Bank. The
National Bank, which combines the functions of a central bank and a commercial
bank, is responsible for providing funds to meet the working capital require-
ments of industry in the Romanian system. Accordingly, it would in this case,
be responsible for the component imports for incorporation into construction
equipment. The Investment Bank is not permitted to engage in short-term
financing.
96.       The Government would ensure the availability of sufficient funds
required for implementation of the sub-projects being assisted by the Bank loan.



- 27 -
Organization and Implementation
97.       The Investment Bank would have overall responsibility for execution
of the sub-projects by the beneficiaries in accordance with its normal respon-
sibilities. Procurement would be carried out by several foreign trade enter-
prises, which are jointly responsible to their sectoral Ministry and the
Ministry of Foreign Trade and undertake imports and exports in their category.
These enterprises are adequately staffed with an average of around 300 tech-
nical and commercial personnel. Their procedures, directed and supervised by
the Ministry of Foreign Trade, are satisfactory. The beneficiary enterprises
would be responsible for actual sub-projects to be carried out under the Loan.
The Computer Center is already suitably staffed. The ten industrial enter-
prises involved are established entities currently conducting successful
operations at existing plants. The National Center for Earthquake Engineering
is also established but is proposed to be expanded under the project under the
direction of existing management, which is fully capable of carrying out the
expansion.
Procurement Arrangements
98.       Procurement under the project would be limited to direct imports,
with no participation from Romanian suppliers. The imports would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Of the list of eligible direct
imports totalling US$70 million, equipment amounting up to US$39 million is
suitable for procurement under international competitive bidding procedures.
A further amount of up to US$10 million of components for construction machin-
ery and specialized equipment required quickly and available from a limited
number of suppliers would be procured through international shopping requiring
Bank review prior to award of contract. This relatively large amount procured
through international shopping is appropriate because imported components are
needed urgently so that they can be incorporated into locally manufactured
construction equipment. Furthermore, the existing production configuration,
and the prototypes to be put into production limit the flexibility in choice
of components, and accordingly of potential suppliers. Procurement of the
specialized equipment is advanced and after considerable technical discus-
sions, the number of suppliers able to meet the requirements has been narrowed
down to 3-4 firms in each case. For these items, prior Bank review would
comprise submission to and Bank review of the technical specifications, the
list of suppliers in at least three Bank member countries and Switzerland from
whom bids were solicited, the basis for their selection, bidding documents
where applicable, and evaluation report and a draft contract prior to award.
Packages of components and small items of equipment under US$300,000 in value
up to an aggregate amount of US$16 million would be procured through interna-
tional shopping requiring ex-post review by the Bank. For these items,
contracts or invoices accompanied by a list of suppliers in at least three
Bank member countries and Switzerland, from whom bids were solicited and their
bid amounts, would be required to be submitted prior to disbursement. Finally,
up to US$5 million equivalent of components would be purchased directly from
recommended suppliers in view of their proprietary nature, with ex-post review
by the Bank.



- 28 -
99.       Contracts have been awarded for about US$11 million of the eligi-
ble items following procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. The amount
of advance contracting, though relatively large, is justified in view of the
urgent nature of the requirements. Expenditures incurred so far for down
payments for these items amounting to about US$1 million are not recommended
for retroactive financing by the Bank. Procurement procedures would be
handled by the foreign trade enterprises in collaboration with project benefi-
ciaries. For the items requiring ex-post review by the Bank, the responsible
foreign trade enterprises would be required to maintain all necessary records
for monitoring and review by Bank supervision missions.
Disbursement
100.      The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100 percent of all foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and components. The loan is generally
expected to be quick disbursing. However in view of the long delivery times
of some items of machinery and associated retention payments, disbursement is
expected to be completed by June, 1981.
Risk
101.      There is little risk in the implementation of the proposed project
considering the urgent priority the Government demonstrably attaches to the
reconstruction and recovery effort. The very large expansion plans of some
of the beneficiaries, that produce for many sectors besides the construction
sector, and the fact that the project would comprise a large number of sub-
projects in different categories have not permitted overall scrutiny of all
the sub-projects in detail. Therefore an internal economic rate of return was
not calculated for this project. However, most of the production is geared to
domestic market needs based on requirements deriving from the investment plans
in various sectors, thus curtailing market risks. The Government's commitment
to the sub-projects is based on its revised Five-Year Plan. The project
imports are part of the expansions of large well-run plants, with well-defined
plans for their activities and production. Implementation planning, in most
cases, is well underway and mobilization on-site is advanced. The impact of
the project would be monitored during the period of disbursement of the Bank
loan through satisfactory reporting requirements for each beneficiary and
through Bank supervision missions. The Investment Bank would also monitor the
performance of beneficiaries closely. Monitoring and performance assessment
would include comparison of actual production achievements of sub-projects
with their planned production. The economic benefits of the project were
discussed in paragraph 37.
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
102.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 29 -
103.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION
104.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 17, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
RGPfiANIA REP. OF   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                               Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                                   ------ ------------- -----------
----------_--_-                          RCOMANIA REP. OF                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       237.5                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      149.0                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE          YUGOSLAVIA     ITALY    GERMANY FED. REP. OF***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       ,,      550.0** 1450.0**             830.0*     1910.0*     4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR. MILLION)           18.4      20.3       21.4/a             20.4        53.7        61.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       77.0      85.0       90.0/a             80.0       178.0      240.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       126.0     136.0      144.07a            139.0       266.0      439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         23.9       19.0      19.7               21.0        10.6        17.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THoU,AV)          10.9        8.9       9.3                9.1         9.7        11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        75.7      49.4       34.7              5S.5         29.6       23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       65.9      67.7       69.1               67.7        71.9        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.2        1.3       1.3                1.3         1.3         1.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.2        1.0       1.0                1.0         0.8         1.0
URBAN                                 3.8       3.4        2.1                4.6         0.8         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          32.0       40.8      43.0               38.7        51.5        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       27.9 /a   25 9       25 4/a             28.3        24.4       23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       64 9  -   65.5      64 8 if             64.3        65.2       63.6
65 YEARS ANo OVER                     782 a     6.6        9.8/a              7.4        10.4        13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.5        0.5       0.5                0.6         0.5         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.7/b      0.7/a     0.7/a,b                        0 0 9/a     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         9600.0    9900.0    10200.0/a                *-    19600.0    26500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         66.0      49.0       36. oTa                         3.1       809
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)                                                               3           0o7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..               15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..               41.4
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..                6.6
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..               18.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..        ..               15.1 /a
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..        ..               84.9 Tb
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              740.0     680.0      620.0             1010.0       550.0      580.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         300.0      200.0     180.0              410.0       470-0/b    350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           180.0 /C   140.0/b   120-0/C            170.0        90.0       90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        105.0     118.0       i18.0/d           124.0       126.0      121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAY)              81.0      92.0       90.0               92.0      100.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         24.0      28.0                          29.0       42.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             4.9/a     2.4        2.1                2.6         1.0        0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO              9         10                                       1
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       98.0     113.0      lv.v                94.0       110.0      129.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     24.0      44.0       49.0               45.0       60.0        66.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      14.0       14.0               12.0       13.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     54.0      58.0      67.0                72.0       26.0        48.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  ..         .       9. 8.0/e           85.0        97.0       99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        1.3/c      *-                 *,         ,,         0.7/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        .-      88.0/c.d     *                  '                     0.3/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ,,      49.0/c                ..                   ..       100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..      27.0/c       ..                  ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        109.0     152.0     146.0               165.0      218.0       318.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            ..         ..                         35.0      190.0       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          414.0    1615.0    2411.b              1288.0     2262.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               2.1       2.6       2.1                 4.3        5.3        17.7
-------------------------------------------------------------------_          -_-_-___----------------       -----
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



:1  9 , E r i .; ! F i ,; - i!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 
f~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~ I  I: :i| i   it' i ] u i Q   i e 



ANNEX I
Page T3of 4 pages
EcONOM r TNDITCATORS
(;ROSS NATI(NAI, 1I'IOUCTI IN 1976                 ANNUAL ItATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
IIS$ Mln.   7.     1961-65    1966-70  1971-75    1975-76
GNP at Market l'rices             27,400    100.0      9. 11       7.71/   11.31/     10.'/
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment    7,450     27.2     11.3        11.2     11.2        8.2
Gross National Saving              7,434     27.1      ..         ..        ..        10.1
Current Account Balance              -16      0.1         2/3/        2/3/     2/3/
Exports of Goods, NFS              6,504     23.7      9.0--     10 9- - 23.6-/ -    14-i/
Imports of Goods, NFS              6,447     23.5     10.7-//-    12.7-= -  22.3-/-   13.2.2/
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added         Labor Force          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.     Z      Mln.          x     US $          x
Agriculture                         3.66     18.3     3.64        35.6    1,005       51.4
Industry                           11.18     55.9     3.27       31.9     3,419      174.9
Construction                        1.44      7.2     0.85         8.3    1,694       86.6
Other                               3.72     18.6     2.47        24.2    1,506       75.0
'Iotal/Average               20.0     100.0    10.23      100.0     1,955      100.0
COVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1976
Central Covernment
Lei Billions         X of GDP
Total Receipts                 254.5              46.4
Total Expenditures            .250.1              45.6
Total Surplus                    4.4               0.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1971     1972      1973     1974     1975     1976
Money Supply                             ..       ..       ..       160.1    176.4    201.4
Short-term Bank -Credit                   .       ..      131.3     155.3    170.2    194.0
Retail Prices (1970 - 100)              101.6    101.6    102.4     103.7    103.9    104.4
Percentage Changes Ln Retail  Prices      1.6     -         0.8      1.3       0.2      0.5
1/  Growth rate of natIonal lncome.
2/ In current prices.
3/ Growth rates -of exports ;ind Imports only.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1976
(All Currencies)
1971    1975     1976
(Millions US $)                          US $ Mln    x
Exports of Goods & NFS         +944   +3,105   +3,653    Capital goods        1,578     26
Imports of Goods & NFS         -988   -3,217   -3,592    Consumer goods       1,005     16
Resource Gap (deficit    -)     -44     -112      +61   Foodstuffs              596     10
Intermediate goods      508      8
Interest Payments               -40     -143     -122   Raw materials         2,450     40
Other Factor Payments (net)     -25       -5      0        Industrial         2,061     34
Balance on Current Account     -109     -260      -61     Agricultural          389      6
Direct Foreign Inystment                                      Total           6,137    100
Net MLT Borrowing-
Disbursements             +312      +859     +912   EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1977)
Amortization              -190      -370     -482
Subtotal                  +122      +489     +430                            US $ Mln
Export Credits Extended- (net)   2/      -41     -274
Short-term Credit (net)         -20     -162      -44   Total M & LT              3,266
Net Errors & Omission            -        -        -     of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)         -7      +26      +52    currencies               3,174
Fuel & Related Materlals
Imports                      635.6  2,042.9  2,496.8  DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1976
of which Petroleum
Exports                     425.5   1,189.5  1,477.5                                  %
of which Petroleum         142.9    539.5
Convertible currencies only    17.4
EXCHANGE RATES                                           IBRD LENDING (April 30, 1978)
('US$ Million)
1.  Official Rate                                       Outstanding and Disbursed     332.0
Undisbursed                490.8
Before August 1971          6 lei:US$l              ourstanding incl.
August 1971-February 1973: 5.53 lei:US$l               Undisbursed                822.8
Since February 1973         4.97 lei:US$l
2.  Tourist Rate
Before August 1971            18 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973     16 lei:US$l
February 1973-October 1974:   14.38 lei:US$l
Since October 1974            12 lei:US$1
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - February 1978    20 lei:US$l
Since March 1978           : 18 lei:US$l
EMENA
May 15, 1978
1/ Includes use of IMF credit.
2/ Included in M & LT Capital.
3/ Includes S, M & LT credits extended.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of April 30, 1978)
US$ Million
Loan                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number         Year     Borrower          Purpose          Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
One loan fully disbursed                                   20.0                      -
Ln. 1020-RO    1974     Investment Bank   Fertilizer       60.0                   18.0
Ln. 1027-RO     1975    Investment Bank   Special Steel    70.0                    23.0
Ln. 1028-RO     1975    Investment Bank   Thermal Power    60.0                    2.9
Ln. 1082-RO    1975     BAFI a'           Irrigation       70.0                    9.6
Ln. 1083-RO    1975     BAFI              Agricultural     30.0                    9.6
Credit
Ln. 1169-RO    1976     BAFI              Flood Recovery   40.0                    3.2
Ln. 1242-RO    1976     Investment Bank   Hydropower       50.0                   32.3
Ln. 1247-RO     1976    BAFI              Irrigation       60.0                   50.9
Ln. 1368-RO    1977     BAFI              Irrigation       60.0                   52.1
Ln. 1436-RO    1977     Investment Bank   Bearings         38.0                   38.0
Ln. 1447-RO     1977    Investment Bank   Glass Fiber      18.3                   15.0
Ln. 1448-RO     1977    Investment Bank   Polyester        50.0                   46.0
Ln. 1479-RO     1978    BAFI              Agricultural     71.0                   64.7
Credit
Ln. 1509-RO    1978     BAFI              Irrigation       40.5                   40.5
Ln. 1536-RO    1978     Investment Bank   Tire             85.0                   85.0
Total                             822.8                  490.8
Of which has been repaid            -                      -
Total now outstanding             822.8
Amount sold           18.6          -
Of which repaid        0.0         18.6
Total now held by Bank c/         804.2
Total undisbursed                 490.8                  490.8
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
b/ Not yet effective
c/ Excluding exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
LN No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement is committed, and construction is well
advanced. The ammonia and the DAP plants are expected to be commissioned by
June 1978, and the urea plant at the beginning of 1979, about 15 months
later than expected. The final project cost is expected to be close to the
appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed several months, primarily be-
cause of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. Progress on
procurement has been closely monitored by several Bank supervision missions.
The contracts for the two steel mills under the loan have been signed and
construction is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules. Total
project costs are expected to be slightly below appraisal estimates, but this
is not expected to affect disbursement of the loan which is now fully committed
for two main supply contracts.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are
likely to result in a five month delay in commissioning of generating units.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082    Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 85 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is 93 per-
cent completed. About 95 percent of the project area will be irrigated by
June, 1978. All remaining works are expected to be completed by December,
1978. Total project costs are expected to be about US$33 million less than
appraisal estimates, and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected to
be cancelled if not required for the project before the closing date.



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4 pages
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, is being carried out under bulk
contracts tendered internationally for 1978 Romanian requirements. Disburse-
ments amounted to US$19.4 million as of March 31, 1978 and are 16 percent
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are ahead
of schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids were received in March 1977 for flood early warning system equipment.
The Romanians advised us that bid evaluation was delayed because of the
technical complexity of the package, but the Romanians have now submitted
a bid evaluation report to the Bank.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation methods are being investigated. Project execution is
according to plan. Civil works for the dam and underground power station are
well underway, and about 75 percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project
works is well underway and progress on these facilities is satisfactory.
Facilities for four dairy farms are complete and contracts for purchase of
about 4,600 imported heifers (50 percent of total) valued at over US$3 million
have been awarded. Procurement contracts for all equipment, except canal
lining equipment, have been awarded.
Ln No. 1368     Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for the
Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and all contracts have already



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
been awarded, except those for tile laying machines and canal lining machines,
wliich are expected to be awarded shortly. Construction of some project works
is underway and progress is satisfactory.
LN No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial bids on major bid packages have been received and procurement
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Main supply contracts have been signed, and execution of the project
is proceeding satisfactorily.
LN No. 1448    Cimpulung, Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. BAFI has made
subloan commitments of US$149.4 million or 46 percent of total project costs.
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; Us$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan was signed on January 27, and became effective on May 15,
1978.
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This loan was signed on March 30, and the deadline for its effective-
ness is June 29, 1978.



ANNEX III
ROMANIA
POST EARTHQUAKE CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first identified by the
Bank:                                            March 1977
(b)  Time taken by the country to                     Six months (March-
prepare the project:                             September 1977)
(c)  Agency which prepared the Project:               Investment Bank
(d) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                            October 25, 1977
(e) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                         October 25, 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:              April 20, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   September 12, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
None
EMENA
May, 1978



ANNEX IV
Page 1
ROMANIA
POST EARTHQUAKE CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS&/ AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-sector
Al  Romania:  The Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under
Socialist Planning; (Report No. 1601-RO), March 1978 (special
reference to Chapters Ten and Twelve).
A2  Construction and the Construction Materials Subsector; Mission
Notes.
A3  Plans for Development of Cement Capacity; Discussions with the
Cement Central.
A4  Romania:  Engineering Industry, A Review of Selected Subsectors and
Projects; Industrial Projects Department, August 13, 1975.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl  Report on Aggregate Statement of Damages; submitted by the Ministry
of Finance, July 6, 1977.
B2  Report on Reconstruction and Construction Assistance Requirements
of Specific Enterprises; submitted by the Investment Bank, September
22, 1977.
B3  Impact of the Earthquake on the Five-Year Plan (1976-80); submitted
by Investment Bank, October, 1977, supplemented in January and
February, 1978 with specific reference to the manufacturing indust-
ries related to construction.
B4  Statement of Foreign Aid Received to Assist Rehabilitation; submitted
by Investment Bank, October, 1977.
B5  Assistance to the Government of Romania in the Implementation of a
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program; UNDP Project Document,
June 1977.
B6  Post Earthquake Measures to Strengthen the Construction Sector;
submitted by Investment Bank, January 3, 1978.
aJ   The Annex lists the major contents of the file and excludes mention of
Bank memoranda and a number of working notes.



Annex IV
Page 2
B7 Engineering and Metal Working (with special reference to project
beneficiaries); Mission Notes.
B8 Building and Construction Equipment Suppliers (with special
reference to project beneficiaries); Mission Notes.
C. Selected Working Notes and Implementation Data
Cl The Borrower; Mission notes and excerpts from the basic economic
report.
C2-C13 Project Beneficiaries (separate notes for all beneficiaries that
summarize current status, effects of the earthquake, and project
impact); Mission Notes.
C14 Foreign Trade Enterprises in the Context of the Romanian System;
Mission Notes.
C15 Foreign Trade Enterprises Significantly Involved in the Project;
Mission Notes.
C16 List of Eligible Beneficiaries and Imports (by category and procure-
ment method).
C17 Decree 152/1974 (relates to bidding procedures for import including
those financed by the Bank).
Industrial Projects Department,
March, 1978






2P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~4                    10Wo  04(04  SI rCDlV5F2,0            240
SOCIAlIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
/8 - <  f Sj  ToPOST EARTHQUAKE CONSTRUCTION
'- -n /  X ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A  R400SERi:iCENTER OF MARtCH 4. EXARTHUAKE
g 9\? f 6 5 '-9 C % h\t BEOTOEzNI o                                                      LOCATION OPPLOJECT BTNEFICIAFRIES
<f t T R i T>y < X / as _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEISMOGRAPHIC STATIONS
1 ---RAILROADS
t,                  =Cv . hI rf 8 UNTI BOUNDARIES
A                                                           11114~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NENArIONA  IBOUNDARIES
'k                           (F)~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ COUNTY CAPITALS
_                               <i;  At$5  _  shro;g  \ B *0 U L rrLsKo rew w R I A AP IDM^_Ag ) -,--- 'T_A EA.S0  U.,C IPL I I E
RIsVERS
E $ /I  - __ lp _ -~~~~~~~~~~~0          2040-       4  O
0  ~ ~ ~ 0T040  ~ ~ ~ '.                                                                                '005-A       2410~~~~~~~010WT0. A 



