Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8638
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) - PHASE III PROJECT
(CREDIT 1183-MAI)
MAY 22, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Fiscal Year               US$            Malawi Kwacha (MK)
1981/82                  1.0                       0.94
1982/83                   1.0                      1.09
1983/84                   1.0                      1.23
1984/85                  1.0                       1.49
1985/86                  1.0                      1.76
1986/87                  1.0                       1.95
1987/88                  1.0                       2.30
1988/89                  1.0                      2.61
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADD       -  Agricultural Development Division
CEU       -   Central Evaluation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture
CADO      -   Chief Agricultural Development Officer
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP    -   Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GOM       -   Government of Malawi
Ha        -   Hectare
IDA       -   International Development Agenc-
KCRDP     -   Karonga - Chitipa Rural Development Project
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture
NRDP      -   National Rural Development Program
NSO       -   National Statistics Office
NSSA      -   National Sample Survey of Agriculture
OED       -   Operations Evaluation Department
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
RMEA      -  World Bank Resident Mission for Eastern Africa
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       -   Special Drawing Rights
TA        -   Technical Assistance
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



TH WOItLO BANK vloa iAL usE ONLY
Washington. DC 2041 3
OffiKi nf Dv.Cctr.COPWfAI
May 22, 1990
MEMORA,NDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completior. Report on Malawi - National
Rural Development Program - Phase III Project
(Credit 1183-MAI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Malawi - National Rural Development Program - Phase
III Project (Credit 1183-MAI)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their o(licial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lak authoriation.



FOR oMCiAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) - PHASE III PROJECT
(CREDIT 1183-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface                                                                                 i
Evaluation Summary                                                                      i
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   PROJECT BACKGROUND
Introduction            ............................................
*  Policy and Sector Context   ...................          ............
2.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
*  Objectives    ..............................................                   2
*  Components   ................. *..           . .................. .            2
3.   DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
General   ......        .......................................... .          3
Weaknesses .         ............................ ............. .....         3
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General             .................................................         4
i Implementation of Individual Components   .........            ........         5
5.   PROJECT RESULTS AND IMPACT
General             .................................................         7
Agricultural Production   ......          ...........................         8
Livestock Development   ...................................                   9
Social Services   ............ .......... .................. *.              10
Environtment   .........................................................     lO
Improved Agricultural Data Base   .....            ....................      10
Strengthened Project Administration                .....................     10
*  Economic Rate of Return (ERR)               ...........................       10
6.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                            11
7.    IDA PERFORMANCE                                                                  11
8.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                              12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
9.  GENERAL COMMENT .....                                             ..............  13
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recip.:nts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLES
1   -    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
2   -    Project Summary, Timetable and Exchange Rate Changes
3A  -    Project Financing
3B  -    Project Costs and Phasing
4   -    Estimated and Actual IDA Credit Disbursements
5   -    Key Implementation Indicators
6   -    Project Results
7   -    Status of Loan Covenants
8   -    Use of Bank Resources
9   -    Crop Production - Karonga - Maize
9A  -    Crop Production - Chitipa - Maize
10   -    Crop Production - Karonga - Rice
11   -    Crop Production - Chitipa - Beans
12   -    Crop Production - Chitipa - Groundnuts
13   -    Crop Production - Karonga - Cotton
14   -    Burley Tobacco Scheme
15   -    Livestock
16   -    Training
17   -    Project Implementation - Seasonal Credit
18   -    Project Implementation - Medium-Term Credit
19   -    Crop Budgets - Chitipa - Maize
20   -    Crop Budgets - Karonga - Maize
21   -    Crop Budgets - Karonga - Rice
22   -    Crop Budgets - Chitipa - Beans
23   -    Crop Budgets - Chitipa - Groundnuts
24   -    Crop Budgets - Karonga - Cotton
25   -    Economic Analysis - Key Parameters
26   -    Economic Analysis - Cost and Benefit Flows
27   -    Produce Economic Prices
28   -    Economic Price of Fertilizer
29   -    Crop Budgets - Economic Values
30   -    Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements and Accomplishments
MAP:      IBRD 15611
IBRD 15512



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) - PHASE III PROJECT
(CREDIT 1183-MAI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National
Rural Development Programme (NRDP) - Phase II: Project for which Credit
1183 - MAI in the amount of SDR 6.5 million was approved on March 8, 1982.
The Credit was closed on September 30, 1988 two years behind schedule. A
balance of SDR 1,827,077.61 remained undisbursed and was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by staff of the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) for the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Department. which contributed the Preface
and Evaluation Summary. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. In
addition, the Borrower compiled a comprehensive completion report which has
been retained iu the OED files.
Preparation of the PCR was started during a visit by a team from
rAO/CP in April 1989 and is based inter alia on material gathered in
Malawi. discussions with Malawi project staff and Bank staff formerly
connected with the project, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



-ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) - PHASE III PROJECT
(CREDIT 1183-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background. Obiectives. Desion
1.        The National Rural Development Programme (NRDP) Phase III
Project was the tenth Bank Group assisted rural development project in
Malawi and the third to support rural development in Karonga Agricultural
Development Division (ADD) situated in North Malawi (para 1). The broad
objectives of NRDP are to raise agricultural production. income and welfare
of the smallholder sector. The project included 14 agricultural components
partly reinforcing previous developments in extension, credit, research,
livestock services, marketing and comiunications and partly to cover
additional subjects such as soil conservation including grassland
improvement and forestry. There were also provisions for improving water
supplies and health services in the area, strengthening ADD management and
support for the National Statistical Services (paras 7-9).
Imlementation
2.        Because of country wide demand for senior staff to implement
NRDP in the other ADDs, there were constant staff changes and many
vacancies. The staffing problems weakened project management and
implementation, particularly in the first two project years, was slow (para
13). Ultimately, most physical targets including construction, purchase of
vehicles and equipment, staff and farmer training, lending to farmers and
appointment of extension staff were met (par& 17). Disbursement also
lagged, but ultimately, in kwacha terms exceeded appraisal estimates (pars
16 and table 3).  However, because of exchange rate changes from MKO.88 per
SDR at appraisal to M13.46 at closure the Credit showed a balance of SDR
1,827,077.61 which has been cancelled (para 16).
3.        Shortage and late release of counterpart funds also caused
project delays. Surprisingly, despite the purchase of 17 four wheel drive
vehicles and 57 motorcycles there were constant transport problems due to
fuel shortage and lack of spares. Extension and credit services w3re
particularly adversely affected by inadequate mobility (para 13-14).
Results
4.        It is disappointing that despite the attainment of physical
implementation targets, particularly with regard to providing inputs,
credit and extension, agricultural production remained almost stagnant and
showed a disturbing decline in the last two project years (par& 33). While
climatic variations and possible sampling errors may have contributed to
low production data, only about 302 of farm families received credit,



- iii -
purchased inputs and benefitted from extension. Evidently resulting
production increases could only balance possible production decline on the
much larger untreated area and a zero rate of return was estimated by the
FAOICP Team based on recorded and projected incremental crop production due
to the project (para 41). As indicated in Part II (para 54), the Borrower
estimates a substantially higher rate of return. but after review of the
basis for the difference, the FAO/CP estimates are supported. Adaptive
research to investigate local problems and to work out area specific
technology started only towards the end of the project period.
S.        The *Block Systems a modified T and V extension system based on
a demonstration garden was introduced. While designed to serve all
farmers, most messages and demonstrations were bat-. on input packages
linked to seasonal credit, which did not attract t4 non borrowing majority
(para 18). The seasonal credit system is operated through farmers' groups
that select only farmers, considered by the groups to be credit worthy, to
participate. To-date that seems to have excluded the poorer 70-752 of the
smallholder community. Strengthening of the ADD administration suffered
from frequent staff changes and vacancies so that counterpart training by
the financial control consultant was difficult and did not take place.
6.        Physical targets for establishing forest reserves and urban
plantations were not met. Late start of these schemes allowed spontaneous
settlement to take place in the proposed areas and 43,400 ha of the planned
68,400 ha were demarcated for forest reserves and 191 ha of 300 ha
plantation were established.
7.        The rural water supplies component was implemented and a primary
health care program was initiated. The latter was not yet fully staffed at
project closure, but was nevertheless helping to improve health care in the
Karonga ADD area.
Sustainability
8.        Management and funding are the key factors governing project
sustainability. Frequent staff changes and senior staff vacancies had
hindered project implementation, but the situation was improving towards
project closure time, with senior staff returning from various training
programs. Funding represents a more serious problem, with the experience
from other NRDP projects that the Government finds it difficult to sustain
adequate funding for the services and facilities developed by rural
development projects after project closure; in particular foreign exchange
to maintain the vehicle fleet. For instance, national statistical services
improved by the project, reportedly, had to be curtailed when project
funding ended. Consideration is warranted, of longer term donor support
for operating funds and capital equipment replacement after project
closure.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
9.        The project installed key farmers' services, including
extension, credit, input supplies and marketing but agricultural production
did not increase. The result is similar to that of other rural development
programs, where the services have helped farmers with above average land



- iv -
holdings but have had little impact on the much larger group of resource
poor smallholders. The Borrower is concerned about these results and the
difficulty of spreading the production impact of NRDP widely (para 5;).
consequently, plans are now being made for pilot operations to widen the
NRDP impact. to reach the poorer farmers. The emphasis of extension work
is also switching to advice that would help resource poor fanmers unable to
afford inputs.
10.       Karonga findings also confirm those of earlier NRDP projects of
the need for strengthening the national research services and to improve
extension methodology. Both of these needs are being addressed in ongoing
operations (Credits 1549-MAI and 1626-MAI) that should enhance the
effectiveness of the services and infrastructure that have been
established.
11.       Lessons affecting project design, which also confirm findings
from earlier projects include the need tot keep project design as simple
as possible; avoid raising operating costs to a level that the Government
finds difficult to sustain; and link project cycles to the Government
financial year to facilitate Government budgeting for project expenditures
(para 50).



MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) - PHASE III PROJWCT
(CREDIT 1183-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Background
Introduction
1.          The NRDP Phase III Project was the tenth Bank-Group assisted rural
development project in Malawi. It was conceived as a third phase of, and broadly had
similar aims as the on going Karonga-Chitipa Rural Development Project (KCRDP). The
project proposals were identified by GOM in August 1979 and prepared in September 1979
with some assistance from the World Bank Resident Mission for Eastern Africa (RMEA).
The following year, the proposals were submitted to IDA who appraised them between
September and November 1980.
2.          As appraised. the project was estimated to last 4 years and cost SDR ).7
million (equivalent US$8.6 million) of which IDA would provide SDR 6.5 million (US$7.3
million) by way of credit and GOM would locally fund the remainder SDR 1.2 million
(US$1.3 million).  The IDA credit was successfully negotiated in March 1982 and the
project became effective in May that year. The Project closed on 30 September 1988
and the credit was completed on 31 March 1989.   No follow-up project is in the
pipeline.
Policy and Sector Context
3.          The Project was formulated when agriculture was - and still is - a dominant
sector of the Malawian economy. It contributed almost 45Z of GDP, nearly 902 of export
earnings and 85Z of total employment. However, the sector was distinctively dualist
between small and estate farms. As a result, whereas national average land holding
amounted to 1.70 ha per family, close to 60Z of the farm-families owned farm sizes
below 1 ha.  The smallholders accounted for 85Z of all agricultural poduction but
only 402 of total agricultural exports. The bulk of their production was food crops
for home consumption. The estate sub-sector, on the other hand, concentrated largely
on the high value export crops like tobacco, tea and sugar. This sub-sector therefore
accounted for 602 of total agricultural exports but only 152 of total agricultural
production. Although the large-scale commercial farmers also carried out livestock
farming, for example pig and poultry production, their products were mainly for the
urban, markets and the cOuntry still imported mGosL of iLs ddiiy production.
4.          GOM's aim had therefore been to maintain self-sufficienzy in food staples,
increase livestock production so as to minimize dairy imports, expand agricultural
exports significantly and improve rural incomes. Given the limitation on high quality
land available for new cultivation and the increasingly high cost of reclamation on
marginal lands or lands exhausted by continuous cultivation, the main emphasis of the
agricultural policy was on a sustained rise in productivity. It attempted to provide
a growth climate for both smallholder and estate production.   While recurrent
performance in the estate sub-sector had been very good - average a real growth of 102
per annum since 1973- in the smallholder sub-sector, real growth had been only 32.



- 2 -
5.          Improvements  in smallholder productivity had been sought through two
different approaches.   One was the more general approach which concentrated on a
gradual  improvement  of extension,  land husbandry  and  faruer  training  services
throughout the country.  The other was the more expensive and management intensive
integrated development programs in specific areas by way of development projects.
The projects were characterized by the provision of infrastructure (roads, markets,
water and health fa:ilities, etc.), institution and land improvement and conservation
measures, improved extension and other services, and provisior. of credit facilities.
However, in the mid-1970s, it was realized that such over-specific and intensive level
of investment projects could not be replicated in the rest of the country if all the
rural population was to be reached within a reasonable time.  A rethinking of the
strategy was therefore undertaken, resulting in the formulation of NRDP, to provide
a more intensive level of services to a larger population concentrating resources on
the more immediately productive aspects of agricultural investment. NRDP was intended
to extend and consolidate various development programs over the entire country, and
was to be specifically designed to increase the level of smallholder production through
the provision of agricultural inputs and farm services; particular attention was to
be paid to increasing the efficiency and scope of extension, input supply, marketing
and credit services. Emphasis was also placed on improved productivity from already
cultivated areas, on soil conservation, watershed management, and on afforestation.
6.          As a continuation of the on-going KCRDP, the NRDP Phase III Project was
to be part of the above national program and to follow the same overall objectives
drawing on the lessons and experience of the previous 8 years through phases I and
II.
2. Project Obiectives and Description
Obiectives
7.          The main objectives of the Project was to raise smallholder production in
Karonga and Chitipa so as to meet domestic consumption requirements, substitute for
imports and provide exports. The Project also aimed at assuring smallholder improved
access to farm inputs and services and at preserving Malawi's national resources
particularly land and forestry.
Components
8.          In all, the Project had 14 separate components, falling into the general
categories of agricultural extension, training, research, credit and marketing
facilities. It also contained provision for improving water supply and health
facilities in the Project area, strengthening management and evaluation of Project
activities and assisting the MOA and National Statistics Office (NSO) with annual data
gathering ". d aralysia.  The spec'fic indi'idual components are set out in Table 3.
9.          Specific features included a programmed approach to extension to include
non-credit receiving farmers; introduction of a new cash crop, Burley tobacco, to the
geographically isolated Chitipa district; more focus on staff in-service and farmer
(male and female) day and residential training courses; and, in view of the increasing
recognition of the role of livestock in the northern district, the provision of further
health development center and marketing facilities.   Environmental protection was to



- 3 -
be addressed through the setting up of a Laid Husbandry Unit for the development of
land-use policy, the establishment of forestry resources and the creation of a forest
plantation near Chitipa town for the supply of fuelwood and poles.
3. tiesign and Organization
General
10.   Since NRDP Phase III was a follow-up to the earlier two phases, there was a
clear concept for the project and all relevant parties clearly understood it. The
project design was not innovative, most components were a continuation of the prior
phases within the NRDP strategy (see para. 5 above).  The only innovative features
introduced by the project were a Burley tobacco scheme which aimed at introducing a
new cash crop to Chitipa ADD and assistance to the NSO which aimed at improving the
national agricultural data base.
11.   The Project was to be implemented through the existing project management and
staff that were set up for the implementation of the earlier phases.   The chief
implementing officer was the Program Manger (PM) at Karonga who in turn was responsible
to the Chief Agricultural Development Officer (CADO) at MOA headquarters in Lilongwe.
This arrangement was satisfactory for the agriculturally related components. However,
for non-agricultural ones like health, water, land and statistics which fell under
other ministries in Gove-nment, the arrangement was not always workable because the
staff implementing these components had dual reporting responsibilities to the PM and
to the respective officers in their parent ministries. In the case of the statistical
component, the PM's effective management was further complicated by physical d3'tances
because the NSO, where the component was implemented, was based in Zomba several
hundred kilometers from the project headquarters in Karonga.
Weaknesses
12.   In retrospect, project design showed various shortcomings, notably:
a)    The multiplicity of components, several of which, as stated above, did
not relate to agriculture. This made the project concept complicated and
led to considerable organizational, coordination and funding problems.
b)    Proposing project investments with high future recurrent costs whereas
from the experience of NRDP I and II it had become apparent that GOM was
having funding difficulties of rural development projects was not
appropriate. NRDP III failed to be an exception to the above problem and
GOM was unable to meet its funding commitments to the project which
resulted in curtailing substantial and essential recurrent expenditure by
the project.



- 4 -
c)    There seems to have been inadequate statistical data on which to base
project preparation with the result that many targets particularly in
agricultural production and training were unrealistically too low and
easily achieved or too high to be attained given the circumstances.
d)    The direct linkage of credit to input supplies resulted in a situation
where most small farmers could not qualify for credit while the more
prosperous farmers with adequate liquidity were obliged to take credit
when in reality they never needed it.
e)    Malawi, particularly being an IDA country, should preferably, have been
encouraged to tap bilateral and multilateral funds to finance Technical
Assistance (TA) rather than use IDA credit for TA.
4. Project Implementation
General
13.   Project  implementation got off to a slow start  largely due to weak and
inexperienced top management. This problem - largely a result of excessive demand
for qualified staff generated by the aggregate of rural development efforts/projects
undertaken by GOM - dogged the project throughout its life. There was a continuous
change of project managers. in all the project had five different PHs, four of them
in an acting capacity, during its 6-year life. This lack of continuity at the top,
coupled with continual vacancies in key section head posts had an &!verse impact on
project implementation.   There were also operational problems notably the chronic
shortage of inputs such as fertilizer and seed, transport difficulties, and erratic
supplies of health and veterinary drugs. Technical assistance staff were not recruited
on time - the Financial Controller was in place only in March 1983, almost a year after
the project had started and the Public Health Officer did not commence his duties till
the end of 1983. Finally, the project was beset with financial problems, particularly
the lack of local counter part funds from GOM.  Only part of the funds were released
and often were received late resulting 4.n considerable difficulties to finance project
recurrent expenditure.
14.         A continuing theme throughout project implementation was the shortage of
transport. This was related to national fuel shortages, unavailability of foreign
exchange for spare parts and a poor allocation of local funding. Of the seventeen
4WD vehicles and the 57 motorcycles purchased under project funding, only 6 vehicles
and 13 motorcycles were serviceable at project completion. The efficiency of the
extension field assistants, veterinary assistants, field home assistants, credit
assistants, credit collectors and land husbandry assistants was severely limited as
at any one tLime only 1OX of these field level staff owned bicycles. The level of salary
and monthly running cost allowance allied to the high cost of bicycles and personal
loans restricted ownership.
15.         The above constraints had a substantial negative  impact on project
implementation in both physical and monetary terms, particularly in the earlier years
of the project and only US$2.2 million or 33Z of the IDA credit funds had been
disbursed by June 1984, mid-way in the estimated project life. By then, it was becoming
apparent that the project would need to be extended by a further year if it was to
regain part of the ground lost in earlier years. The extra period would allow for the



- 5 -
consolidation of the project through improvements of effectiveness, extend coverage
of extension services and allow GOM to include specific plans and timetables for the
implementation of adaptive research activities and increasing the use of block
demonstration gardens and farm trials.
16.   In September 1986, the project closing date was extended by 1 year to 30
September 1987.   However, as the deadline approached,  it became apparent that a
substantial amount of the project funds would still remain undisbursed. Accordingly,
GOM requested a further extension for one year and put forward a list of additional
investments which the project could finance. As these were in line with the original
project concept, they were acceptable to IDA and the project closing date was extended
for a further 12 months to the end of September 1988. By then, 72Z of the IDA credit
funds had been utilized. The substantial unutilized balance was largely attributable
to the depreciation in the exchange rate of the Malawi Kwacha vis-a-vis the major
currencies. For example, against the dollar, the value of the Kwacha had declined to
below a third of its value at the time the project was appraised falling from US$1.00
= MKO.78 to USS1.00MK2.66 in March 1989 when the final project disbursement was made.
In a project where only 532 of costs were to be incurred in foreign exchange, the
depreciation in local currency had a negative impact on the dollar/SAR converted
disbursements.   As  shown in Table 3,  in local currency terms,  actual project
disbursements were MK7.4 million which was MKO.5 million or 82 in excess of the SAR
estimate.
Implementation of Individual Components
17.   The key SAR targets and the extent to whlc.. they were achieved are set out in
Table 5. As shown therein, the implementation targets relating to the construction
of building and other physical infrastructural facilities were virtually all achieved.
The training targets were surpassed by far as were some of the seasonal inputs
quantities.   However, with the exception of beans, the SAR targets relating to
incremental cropped areas were substantially not met. As the project design did not
anticipate considerable increase in yields, the shortfall in the hectarage cropped
resulted in production shortfalls as well. The implementation of the major components
is briefly discussed below.
18.         ARricultural Extension.  As indicated in para. 14 above, the Extensic.n
Field Assistants were beset by transport problems which severely limited their ability
to visit and sustain contact with all farmers.   To overcome this constraint, the
project hired more field assistants but this had the adverse effect of reducing the
extension/farmer ratio to 1250 at project completion vis-a-vis the SAR target of
1:350. Extension field assistants were also heavily involved in credit club formation,
credit recovery and needs determination and delivery of inputs. These activities left
them with little time available for extension of new ideas, apart from those associated
with the credit packages. During implementation a modified approach to extension, the
Block System, was introduced, but results were less than expected as the system was
geared to messages associated with fixed credit packages, taken up by the larger
farmers, and the smaller farmers showed little interest in funding inputs for the block
demonstration areas which were to be the focal point for new ideas.
19.         Training:    Shortage  of  local  funding  created  difficulties  for the
satisfactory execution of the training components. There was general lack of mobility
and provisioning of the existing training centers and those constructed at Lupembe by



- 6 -
the project. Visual aids and teaching equipment were in short supply as a result of
procurement. However, praiseworthy efforts were made to involve women, farmers and
project staff in many courses and,  as shown in Table   5.   Overall,  the very
conservative SAR attendance targets were substantially exceeded. But the more ambitious
MOA planned targets showed substantial shortfalls in both the number of courses and
attendants (see Table 16).
20.         Pilot Burley Tobacco.  The Pilot Burley  Tobacco  Scheme was successfully
completed as a demonstration of efficient cash cropping in Chitipa. As shown in Table
14, at completion, 50 farmers had achieved steadily increasing returns and yields had
stabilized around 2,200 kg per hectare. However, the scheme had not yet achieved its
main aim of becoming totally self-sufficient, administratively and technically, with
a farmer committee   taking   full  management   control.   Decisions regarding the
consolidation of successful experience, definitive tenurial arrangements and the role
of Government in the future development of tobacco in the area have still to be taken.
21.         Research.  The only research carried out was international variety and
national commodity trials which had little specific applicability to KAronga
Agricultural Development Division. Applied research work was initiated during the
last year of implementation, but no recommendations were available by the time the
project was completed.
22.         Livestock.   Two new cattle dips were constructed and 3 existing ones
improved.   However, the dips were not used to maximum advantage most of the time
because of constant shortages of acaricides.  Notable efforts were made to improve
overall animal health and reduce the incidence of disease, notably rinderpest. Efforts
were also made to upgrade the breed of local poultry by the introduction of the
Mkolongwe Black Astral Chicken.   However,  inexplicably,  these efforts have not
translated into an increase in livestock population which, as shown in Table 15 has
generally declined since 1986 and at the end of the project the off-take percentage
for cattle had declined to only 71 compared to lI at the start of the project.
23.         Credit.  Seasonal credit was available only in kind, in fixed packages.
As shown in table 17 with the exception of Sulphate of ammonia (which was substituted
by C.A.N. during the project) and groundnut seed (which was in short supply throughout
the project life) the SAR targets for inputs were surpassed both in physical quantities
and in value. Although seasonal credit was generally successful under the project,
the recovery performance deteriorated from 92Z in 1986 to 84Z in 1988 and that the
number of clubs in default have been on the increase since 1984 indicating a relaxing
of credit discipline.   The unsatisfactory performance of medium-term credit is
demonstrated in table 18. As shown therein, the actual credit extended underperformed
the SAR targets both in physical quantities and values and the recovery rate was poor
partly due to inadequate loan appraisal methods.



- 7 -
24.         Marketing.  The marketing stores and staff houses to be constructed under
this component are all in place. However, long delays involved in negotiations with
ADMARC, the parastatal which operates a nationwide network of stores and marketing
sheds, on ownership and charges for the new storage/buying points to be established
under  the  project  limited distribution of inputs and the buying of commodities
during the first two years of implementation.
25.         Land Husbandry.  Funds allocated under the project (1Z of total project
costs) were insufficient for the task. Useful works, however, were carried out for
siting of construction works, identification of grazing and forestry areas and the
laying out of drainage lines and land marker ridges which the extension service was
regrettably unable to follow-up.
26.         Forestry.  Slow progress in the acquisition of lands intended for forest
plantation and similarly the late start on the gazetting of forest areas arising from
the low priority given to the component in the early stages of implementation,
undermined the ability to achieve SAR targets. As a result, only 43,000 ha of forest
were gazetted (SAR target, 68,400 ha) and only 191 ha of peri-urban forestry was
planted at Chitipa (SAR target, 300 ha). The tress in the new forest plantation are
growing satisfactorily.
27.         Water Facilities.  Twenty-seven supplementary boreholes for clean water
supplies were drilled, out of an estimated 30 foreseen by the SAR. Difficulties were
experienced working in the sandy soil areas of Karonga and with the procurement of
pumps, but overall the program, coordinated by the Land Husbandry Unit. was
satisfactory. There were, however, funding problems for spare parts, which resulted
in a number of boreholes being rendered unfunctional.
28.         Health.  A Public Health Officer under TA was appointed, though late, and
successfully served the Project for 4 years. The building program as set out in the
SAR, was completed and successful primary health care and bilharzia control programs
undertaken.   However, a shortage of trained staff and local funding reduced the
effectiveness of these programs and led to a number of dispensaries built by the
project remaining unutilized for long periods.
29.         Proiect Administration.  The Financial Controller stipulated in the SAR
was engaged in 1983 and stayed with the project for 4 years. Although he improved the
budgeting procedures, he did not install an easily workable accounting system nor
carry out enough training to enable a Malawian counterpart to take over from him.
The post of Planning Economist (Malawian) stipulated in the SAR to strengthen planning
at the project was vacant during most of the project life. This was detrimental to
the project particularly in the areas of monitoring or evaluation and procurement where
the Planning Economist was supposed to assist. Project-level monitoring and evaluation
was particularly affected and, as shown in Table 30, staff were unable to carry out
some important tasks in the original and revised work plans.
30.         Surveys and Statistical Unit. The buildings for NSO under the project were
all constructed and the vehicles were all purchased. The operating funds provided for
the continuation of annual national agricultural surveys after completion of the
National Sample Survey of Agriculture (NSSA) in 1981182 were effectively utilized, up
to the original completion date in 1986.   However,  since then, most of the data



collection started with project funding have ceased because of lack of recurrent
funding.
5. Proiect Results and Impact
General
31.         In spite of the managerial, operational and financial problems encountered,
within varying degrees, the project achieved much of its aims.   The quantifiable
results as compared with appraisal estimates for key operations are set out in Table
5.  Because of the multiplicity of components, to assess the project results and
impact, the project activities can be grouped in six broad groups, namely Agricultural
Production,  Livestock  Development,  Social  Services,  Environment.         Improving
Agricultural Data Base and Strengthening Project Administration.
Agricultural Production
32.   The overriding aim of the project was to increase smallholder agricultural
production to meet domestic demand and to widen the cash crop base for the farmers in
Karonga and Chitipa. These aims were to be achieved through the combined activities
of agricultural extension, field staff and farmer training, research and credit for
input supplies and marketing and land husbandry. The cash crop base was to be widened
by introducing Burley tobacco in Chitipa and expanding cotton production in Karonga.
33.   The project achieved mixed results as regards increased food production because
of implementation weaknesses and problems referred to earlier, but also due to the
vagaries of weather and producer prices. In Karonga, there was a substantial increase
in the area farmed under maize and an improvement in yields as illustrated in Table
9. However, as shown in Table 10, there was a continuous decline in the area farmed
under rice and a substantial decline in production. But on balance, the benefit from
increased maize production seems to have outweighed the loss from a decline in rice
production. Karonga, which was a net importer of food is now self-sufficient. In
Chitipa, the area farmed under maize increased but the big decline in yields resulted
in overall reduction in productios. However, as indicated in Tables 11 and 12, there
was a notable increase in hectarage and yields for beans and groundnuts.
34.   The project fared better in its efforts to generate a wider cash crop base.  In
Karonga, as shown in Table 13, the area farmed under cotton and the yields improved,
resulting in increased production. However, there was a sharp fall in the final year
of the project possibly due to problems of inputs and a low producer price.   In
Chitipa, the success of the Burley Tobacco Scheme under the project has stimulated a
lot of interest in tobacco farming and plans are in progress to introduce another
variety of tobacco more suitable to small farmers.
35.   At farm-level, the project impact on crop production at project completion is
illustrated in the models set out in Tables 19 to 24 in 1988 constant terms and
summarized below:



-9-
Incremental
Without     SAR          1987/88       over
Project     Estimate    Actual       Without Proiect
Maize
-Yields: Chitipa (kg/ha)              1,200         3,800      2,300       1,100
: Karonga (kg/ha)                800        1,600         899          99
-Return per man-day (MK)
: Chitipa                          1.32         2.51        0.70         (0.62)
: Karonga                          1.16         o.j2        0.07         (1.09)
Beans
-Yields: (kg/ha)                        400           600        473           73
-Return per man/day (MK)                  1.37          1.93       1.28          (0.09)
Groundnuts
-Yields (kg/ha)                         400           500        428           28
-Return per man/day (MK)                  1.27          1.22       1.22          (0.05)
Rice
-Yields (kg/ha)                       1,600        2,400       1,900          300
-Return per man-day (MK)                  2.40          2.65       1.95          (0.55)
Cotton
-Yields (kg/ha)                         700           800        900          100
-Return per man-day (MK)                  1.39          1.69       1.34          (0.05)
The above  table  shows  that with the exception of cotton,  actual yields were
substantially less than the SAR estimate and all crops showed returns per man-day
which are lower than without the project. This, however, may be misleading because
1987/88 was not a typical year and the yields in that year were generally below those
attained in the previous 3 years.
Livestock Development
36.   The  livestock  improvement  programme  was  generally  satisfactory  although
populations of all classes remained more or less static or declined during project
and the offtake  percentage of  beef cattle  declined significantly.  In health a
successful rinderpest campaign was carried out with dipping percentages varying between
40 and 70X annually. Improvements to local breeds, increasing draught animal potential
and creation of field grazing schemes to relieve pressure on the crop growing areas
were less successful.
Social Services
37.   Through the Health and Water components, the project aimed at improving public
health and to make clean drinking water easily accessible to more people in Karonga
and Chitipa. Under the health component, a primary health care program was started
and a successful anti-bilharzia campaign carried out.  Under the water component,
boreholes were constructed and more people now have clean drinking water within
reasonable distances. The impact of these two components, however, may be short-lived
because of funding problems which have left some dispensaries unoperational and some
boreholes unmaintained.



- 10 -
Environment
38.   The project aimed at protecting the environment through the Forestry and Land
Husbandry components. 43,000 hectares of forest reserves were gazetted (some 632 of
the target, with the remainder lost to settler encroachment) and 191 hectares of peri-
urban forestry plantations were established at Chitipa. The latter will, in future,
also help allay shortages of wood for fire and poles for construction. The results
and impact of the Land Husbandry component were limited due to inadequate funding
allocation by the project.
Improved Agricultural Data Base
39.   The project aimed at sustaining a national agricultural survey capability through
annual data gathering and analysis. Under the project, nationwide agricultural data
collection was done and processed at NSO in Zombe for all ADDs except Liwonde and
Lilongwe which had their own computers.   And since agricultural activities are
seasonal, during downtime, NSO used the enumerators funded by the project to gather
and analyze data for other activities not related to agriculture but beneficial to the
country. However, since the project funding ended, a serious gap in agricultural data
collection now exists.
Strengthened Project Administration
40.   Because NRDP Phase I and II activities had suffered from weak management and
planning, the project provided funding for posts of an expatriate Financial Controller
and a Malawian Planning Economist. The Financial Controller was employed for 4 years
but the impact of this contribution was limited as he set up a complete accounting
system but staff training was unsuccessful. The Planning Economist post was vacant
most of the time with adverse impact on project operations particularly monitoring and
evaluation and procurement.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
41.         It has been only possible to est!nate the ERR from the agricultural
production activities because there is no adequate data for estimating other
quantifiable benefits arising from the forestry and livestock investments. The ERR
calculation for the agricultural crop production components is set out in Tables 25
and 26. As a result of heavy front-end investment costs and shortfalls in production
targets, the estimated ERR is - 0.12 vis a vis the SAR estimate of 19z.  This is,
however, indicative only because the unexplained sharp increase in production in the
first year of the project, particularly of maize, would appear to indicate that the
without-project area and production figures in the SAR were materially understated.
G. Proiect Sustainability
42.   During the project, the work started by and achievements of Phase I and II have
been consolidated and sustained.   The physical infrastructure is in place, better
agricultural services have been initiated, and social services have been improved.
However, in order to sustain these achievements, the weaknesses that have existed
during implementation should be attended to and innovations made. The following will
particularly be important so as to sustain the activities of the project in the long
run.



- 11 -
43.         Budget.   The shortage of recurrent budget has been a constant theme
throughout project implementation and has led to the curtailment of project operations.
Now that the project has ended and the full funding responsibilities are to be borne
from GOM resources, it will be important for Government to allocate enough funding to
project activities.
44.         Management.  To sustain the program started by the project, it will be
essential to ensure continuity of top project management and to fill key posts
promptly. Without a strong team, the project may go adrift.
45.         Extension.  As agricultural development has been the cornerstone of this
project, it will be necestary to revamp and maintain an extension force which is
mobile.   There may be need to give soft loans to staff to buy their own means of
transport and to review from time to time their transport allowances.
46.         Research.   Under the project. the research component  did not show
impressive results. Adaptive research was undertaken only in the final year of the
project.   It will be necessary to continue with efforts for research into genetic
breeds that are specifically suitable for KRADD rather than relying on national trials.
47.         InRuts  Supply.      Throughout  project  implementation,  shortages  of
agricultural inputs has been a constant problem and has seriously undermined project
results in agricultural production.  In order for the agricul ural crop activities
initiated by the pro,ict to be able to achieve their full potential yields, it will
be essential for GOM to ensure that KRADD gets adequate and timely supplies of
agricultural inputs.
7. IDA Performance
48.         RMEA staff assisted GOM in the latter stages of project preparation. Their
input, however, does not seem to have been adequate as evidenced by the quality of
the SAR which was not of the usual World Bank standard.
49.         As shown in  Table 8, a  total of  12 IDA  supervision missions visited
Malawi   during the   project   life to   look at   the progress of implementation.
Overall, their input was found useful by Project Management and they played a key role
in facilitating project progress by highlighting weaknesses in performance and
suggesting possible  remedies.    The  supervision mission  of  September  1984 was
particularly crucial. It highlighted the recurrent problems in project implementation
and suggested the need for the extension of the project. Without the two extensions,
it is unlikely that the project would have attained as much as it did.
50.         Lessons.  The following are some of the lessons which could be learned by
IDA from their performance in the project.
i) Project design should avoid the multiplicity of components into a single
project.    Too many components,  particuilarly  if involving different
Government ministries, complicate project management and coordination;
ii) The need to minimize investments in areas with high future recurrent costs
if from the onset it is apparent that the recipient Government is having



- 12 -
budgetary problems;
iii) As far as possible, project cycles should be linked with Government
ftnancial years in order to facilitate project activities to fit easily
in the overall Government annual financial plans;
iv) Countries receiving IDA credits, should, as far as possible, be encouraged
to tap bilateral and multilateral grant funds to finance technical
assistance rather than using IDA credits for that purpose.
8. Borrower Performance
S1.         The borrowers showed certain weaknesses during project implementation.
The recruitment of technical assistance, particularly the Public Health Officer, were
hired late. There was a constant change of Project Managers which deprived the project
of continuity in leadership. Several key posts were not filled most of the time
resulting in some project activities not enjoying the full benefits from pro,ect
funding. Finally, GOM did not meet in full its funding commitments to the project.
However, although sometimes late, periodic progress reports were submitted to IDA as
agreed and the laid down procurement procedures were generally followed. GOM met most
key covenants specified in the credit agreement except the one relating to funding
whereby MOA failed to maintain in real-terms the MK1.O million annual contribution to
the project as agreed.
52.         Lessons.   The borrower could learn several lessons from the project,
notably:
i) The need for an able and continuous project management team as a backbone
to the successful implementation of a project;
ii) The need for continuous Government commitment to its agreed share of the
funding of project activities;
iii) The need for efficient and speedy procurement procedures;
iv)  Operationally, the need to separate  extension  activities  from credit
and input supply functions;   otherwise  there  will be a conflict of
interest;
v)  Preferably,  Government  should    always    explore    bilateral    and
multilateral grant   funds to  finance technical assistance requirements
rather  than  use  borrowed  finance.   In  addition, Government should
always ensure that there is counterpart staff to benefit and eventually
take over from technical assistance staff.



- 13 -
PART $I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORRO1WER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/
9. General Comment
53.       Ws have gone through the report and have the following remarks
to make.  The report has been well written and touches on most of the
important issues, design, implementation and results of the project. We in
general are in agreement with the findings and recommendations of the
report. It is true that the project achieved mixed results in attaining
its main objectives, which were to increase smallholder agricultural
production to meet domestic demand and to widen the cash crop base in the
Karonga and Chitipa areas. While the report emphasizes institutional
weaknesses in the implementation of the project, it should be noted that
vagaries of weather such as flooding and drought conditions caused
fluctuations in crop areas and yields. Again it should be noted that
transportation problems which impaired extension work were due to fuel
shortages which was a national problem beyond the project management's
control.
54.       In the calculation of the Economic Returns, the report makes use
of year of project completion production data to measure the incremental
production for the with and without project comparison. As is rightly
pointed out in Section 35, this can be misleading because 1987188, the
project completion year used was a drought stricken season and yields were
much lower than in the previous three years. The use of average yields
over the life of the project would give a better picture.
55.       The limited extension coverage and credit uptake by farmers has
been a major concern for Governmuent. We note that this constitutes a major
constraint to increased farmer productivity. The report however fails to
indicate strategies that need to be taken in order to encourage the
resource poor farmrs to participate in the project. Under the Extension
and Planning Support Project, efforts are being made to improve extension
coverage together with the introduction of small credit packages, but this
may be of limited service in the wake of the Government's commitment to
reduce subsidies on fertilizer and the public budget.
56.       Indeed the use of IDA to finance Technical Assistance Personnel
(TAP) has proved to be very costly and a wasteful allocation of scarce
resources as these do attract loan repayments including interest charges.
Government policy is to explore possibilities of Grant Funding for TAP
before resorting to loans.
1/   A comprehensive completion report was submitted together with this
comment, and is retained in the Africa Information Center and OED
files. This report would be very useful should an OnD audit be
undertaken.



Table 1-- elated Bank Loans and/or Credits
Calendar
Loan/Credit Title        Purpose                  Year            Status                  Comments
of Approval
(1) National Rural      Very similar              1983           Closing Date 9/30188   Covers two Rural
Dev. Programme,          components to NRDP                      extended to 9130/90.   Development Project
Phase IV                 III - Main objective                                            Areas of Lilongwe              "
(Credit 1343-MAI)        to increase                                                     Agricultural Development      0
agricultural                                                    Division.                     0
production and                                                                                C
improve rural income.
(2) Smallholder          Improve fertilizer       1983           Closed 3/31/88          Ensured fertilizer
Fertilizer Project       procurement and                                                 supplies for the project
(Credit 1352-MAI)        distribution.                                                   area, following a period
when supplies were
erratic.
(3) National             Improving national       1985           Under Implementation   Strengthening
Agricultural Research   research policy.                                                 agricultural research
Project (Credit 1549-                                                                    should accelerate              0
MAI).                                                                                     finding technology that
would enable the
services installed by
the project to help
farmers increase
production and raise
their income.
(4) Agricultural         Improving extension      1985           Under                   The work of this project
Extension and            work nationally.         (December)     Implementa_lon.         should improve the
Planning Support                                                                         effectiveness of the
Project (Credit 1626-                                                                    extension service
MAI)                                                                                     established by the
NRDPIII Project.



- is -
Table 2 - Proiect Summary
Counttry:                      Regublic of Nbtali
Sector:                        Agriculture
Project Noe:                   Nationat Rural Developaent Programm  (09) Phase IIl ProjeCt
IDA Credit Iuer:               1183 - M&t
Loan Aount:                    Son 6.5  itlion (US# 7.3 wittion)
Locat Counterpart funding:    SOSR 1.2 mitlion (US) 1.3 siltion)
8: PROJECT tlPf TALE
Item                              Oat.  Planned                .ViIGd   Dat,                actuat   Oat.
ftntgb         tear         llnt              a           totb           leor
tdentification                 Augut           1979                                      Aulst           1979
Presaration                    Juty            1910t                                     July            1980
Appraisat                      Sept.-Mt.       1980                                       Sept.NOV       1980
Board Approval                     -             -                                        October        1981
Loan/Credit Signature          Febwuary        1982                                        rtch          1982
Loan/Credit Effectiveness      Rey             192 8ly                                                   1982
Loan/Credit Ctosing            Spteoter        1986       C September       196? 3        Septer         19U
E September       19U 3
Loan/Credit Coepletian         march           1987        North            1969          HAtch          1989
* SAR issued in Septeber 19S1
C: fICXAf REAt  CWEWJTS
Us# t.86                5s  1.00
At Apprais*t                   (September 1981)                  X 0.78                   0.68
first IVA Disbursement         (tgust   192)                    -  1.13                    1.20
ital IDA Disbursent            ("arch     1989)                  1 2.66                    3.



Table 3 - Project Costs and Phasing
.----------------- s-   ESTIrATE----------------- - - -                      ----
199/s1' 29311/4  I'A4105 /S 95/9  1996/97  1918/U  129t/9               TOTAL   0as Cost          TOTIIL      Tutd tost
-- - ------------------------------l |K OM -----------  -- --------------                         000
Aq4rcultural Exassten                         41A.I  S3.4    52.9   5V.0                                           844.4    16.0               1191.0    I5.9
tramninq                                      5        M.9    17t.0    42.0    42.9                                 51.5     9.7               6t9.2      9.3
Pilot furley Tobacco                           6t.2    59.5       1.1     6.9                                       136.6     2.6               I.4        2.4
feirarch                                      155.6   101.8    37.3    37.3                                         332.0     6.3                2M5s       3.3
tLvestextk                                    .9.6   216.9    69*.2    6L1                                          59.4    11.1               1104.3    13.4
Credit                                        108.5    94.1    25.4    26.7                                         245.3      4.6               292.6     2.6
auteting                                       55.3    '9.7    24.4       5.2                                       153.6     2.9                214.6     2.9
t ad kIsoandry                                 59.01     9.2      9.l     8.1                                        62.3      1.6                46.1     0.6
Foresiry                                        4.5    27.6   214.4    81.4                                         349.1     6.6               3173.3     5.0
Mater facetlates                               25.0   2x5.0    6.0    40.0                                          150.O      2.                 M.7      3.3                C,
llealth                                       P17.9   714.6    61.1    61.2                                         444.6     9.4                 5.       4.9
NoieKt  Atntistratitn                          't.3   105.5    94.1    22.5                                         413.4      7.9              1150.1    25.5
CEU                                            31.9      9.0     4.9      4.0                                        SI.O     0.1                362.4     4.9
SuveYs and Statistical tkut                  l1L.0   "A0.2   296.5   221.0                                          99.71    29.9               1181.S    26.0
Idal Pfase Cos             19h).9  1691.1  10"9.I   I2N.7        0.0      0.0     0.0            520.7 I 100.0                7431.0    00.0
Eantiqencies                                  3125.1   55.6   412.6   3W.3         0.0     0.0      0.0            1603.0    30.3
lotal Costs - So1          2i5.9  22149.9  1420.9  1021.0        0.0      0.0     0.0             ML93.   1230.3
lolta) Costs - Atual        2117.9  1401.7  12'65.7   299.7  I152.9   421.9   914.3                                           7437.0   100.0
fxc.esbSh.tf&al             I Of)8.0   949.2   155.2  -212.7 -1152.9  -414.9  -014.3             -543.3
N:
Attil costs for Aqricultural e-.tension include 11 20o00 r fare mahinery that was purchased in tfe
second extensimn of the project. Costs of Iraining include 11 900 Mthich was spent an lNam  Progrq es
diving the first e.-tension Aile the 221000 spent an bnimal RMandry dwing the saw period ha
tbwvn tifrwpritiri  ton thp Iivemterw  rnmvwt casq -



- 17 -
Table 3A - Proiect Financing
Ptl nd              Revised                f int                finatl as 
1toen Cirt -tre nt)                                                        Pt
SOS 'OW      X     SO9 '000    X       SOR '000      S       
A. 10DA LOAN 
f4penditure Cateory
1. Wh4cles,  ,chuwy, E3ut 2 SWp Pats   710                        -                 356                      50
2. Civt t Works  1t                       2,040                   -                 915                      45
3. Agricuttural inputs and Sualies 27       t40                   -                  6o                      44
4. operating costs 31                     1,66e0                                  2.192                     132
5. MA Catrat tatuat;  Ihit                   S0                   -                 26                      452
6. Survey and Statistic Init                980                   -                 788                      80
T. forest Reserves and Plantations           90                   -                                          54
8. Pitot Tobacco Schem                      140                   -                  66                      47
9. Unattocated                               690                  -                  -                        0
Total Extental          6,500       8S           -      -       4,o54         e8           72
8. t0N COTRItouTtoU *-                       1,160      15           _                6S0         12           56
TOTAL                    7o660     100           -      -       5304         t0            69
1t  Exctuding those for the Pilot Tobacco Schem  no market facilities
It   Including butts And cows
3I   Exctuding those rokating to forestry, Central Evaluation Unit, Survey Statistics Unit an  Pitot tobacco S'keme
Source:  * The World Dan
KRADD



Table 4 - Estimpted. and Actual IDA Credit Disbursements
SDR '000
SAR Estimate                         Actuat
IDA        Quarter           Uo8rtert1y7u utatlve                 0uarterty      Culotative          I         Actual asIto
Fiscat vear    Ending          Disburse.ets    Sisburseents    *Disbursements    istbursemeints    Disbursed         Estbut
......... ... W.DI OOO ....... ....  ..... ..... SDR  'O00 ........... .... .......   ... .......S.
1981182      January 31            89                  69               0                 0              0              0
%arch   31           89                  17a               0                0               0              0
June    30          170                 3S6                0                0               0             0
1962183      September 30         356                 712              Is                Is              0.2             2
*ecesber  31        3S6               1,06"               8                %3               1.6            10
Marco     31        44S               1,513              1SO               2SS 359                         17
June      30         534              2,047              470               723             11.1            35
1983184      September 30         S34              2,5sl               646            1,371             21.1            53
Docember  31        44S               3,026              26             1,635              2S.2            54
"arch     31        44S               3,471              270             1,90S             29.3            55
June      30        445               3,91               268            2,173              33.4            55
1984185      September 30         3S6              4,272              277             2.450             37.7            57
December  31         3S6              4,628             '443            2,693              44.S            63
"arch     31         3S6              4,984              100            2,993              46.0            60
June      30        3S6               S,340              201            3,194              49.1            60
1985186      September 30         2                 5,608       S     225             3,419             S2.6            61
December  31        2"                S,874              1S0            3,5S9              S4.9            61
"arch     31        266               6,144              14S            3,713              S7.1            61
June      30         178              6,322              130            3,842              S9.1            61
1986/8?      September 30         178              6,500              122             3,94              61.0            61
*ecember  31          0               6.500               16            3,980              61.2            61
March     31          0               6,SOO               9S            4,07S              62.7            63
June      30          0               6,S00               63            4,138              63.7            64
1987/88      September 30           0              6SOO              147            4,285              6S.9            66
Occember  31          0               6,SOO              142            4,427              68.1            68
Parch     31          0               6SOO               13            4,440              66.3            68
June      30          0               6,500               42            4,482              69.0            69
1988189      September 30           0              *.500               I?            4,4"               69.Z            69
*ecembaer  31         0               6,SO               S3            4,4S2              70.0            70
Parch     31          0               6,500              103            4,6S4              71.6            72



- 1.9 
Table  S - Key tmolementation  Indicators
Unit           Aooraisat           Actual            Variance
Is time -m--
Comoltete Construction
Staff Houses                            No.             121                 163                      (.2
Offices/Lab                             NO.                7                  8               *       t
Training Center                         No.               1                   1                       0
AOMARC - Inout Stores                   No.               5                   5
Marketing Shed                NO.                1                                          0
Wealth - Subtconter                     NO.                1                                          0
Maternity Center              No.                1                  t 
Livestock Dios - Now                    No.               2                   2                       0
1w9rov*d             No.                3                  3                       0
Soreholes                               No.              43                  43
30                 2?                -      3
Agricultural Extension
Extension Cover                        Ratio            1:3M0              1:250              *
Incremental Croo Area  I/
Karonga
aize   /                                ha              300                 228               -      72
Rainfed Rice 3/                         hO              a0m             -1,680                -  2.480
Cotton                                  ha              iso                  91               -      59
Chitioe
Maize  4/                               ha            1,500                 4t0                -  ',C20
Groundnuts                              ha              250                 200                -     50
S8ans                                   ha              200                 800                *    6C0
Tobacco                                 ha                30                 29               -       t
Credit
Seasonal Inouts 5/
Sulohate of Amaonia                     at            3,706               1,281                -  2,425
Comoound 20:20:0                        St              890               1,744                +    854
Rice Seed                               at            1,21?               1,580                +    363
Maizte Seed                             St               137                198                *     61
Groundnut Seed                          St              426                 123                -    303
C.A.N.                                  St                                1,763                4  1,763
vatue of Season of Credit 6/          MKO000             898              3,285                +  2,387
Medium-Term Items
Value Medium-Term Credit 6/           MK,000             195                189                -      6
Training ?l
Farmers                                No.            5,000              27,985                * 22,98S
Field AssIstants                       Ns.              800               S,744                e  4,944
Forestry
Reserves                              area           68,400              43,400                - 25,000
Plantation                             ha                300                191                -    109
1/ Based on Base Year (1981/82) actual hectarage
T/ Comoosite variety onty
Ti Faya variety
4/  Hybrid variOty Only
Ti Total quantity usage during the oroject oeriod
6/ Nominal. Unadjusted for infLation
7/ Totat numeers trained at residentiat and day training Courses



- 20 -
Table 6 - Proiect Results
A. 2My9t snMEM
Indicators                          Wlthout      SA           Actual at
Project      gstiea:e   Closing
1.  Productios (Metcic Tons)
Malso, Rroags Df trict       2.880 1I       3,440     5.708
Rise  atonsga Disttict      12,400         13,040     7.245 it
Cotton KACQoag District        490            560       712
Raise Cbhtipa District       13.320  t     18u,00 o   3.636
Bcm Chitipa District           400            Goo       810
Grouaduts Chitipa Diatrict    120             275       200 a1
2.  tields kgiha
Raise Karong.                   950           950       930
Rica tag  2a2.100                                       so300  80
Cotton arAess                   700,          700       900
Naise ChitLpa                 1,350         1.00      1,050
seas Chito4                     400           500       430
oros4dauto Chitf                400           300       400
S.  Seaonal Credt
I  er of 8 0rrwrs            64.41             NA     9,167
1    aroaga 'Wttboet Project usa  prodotis and yield appears
unederettarod Wil. those foa  Chitipa say hef. be" owerestltated.
Il  Ccttes, geut ca  rie pceduties 4dcltsad deriag lost twe
project y as fun. 1,400  390 .d 11.0  setric toss. Cespectively.
The dp iL sette mi tcouodmat producti. my be due to the
relative ris. La  sis, peoitsbility but the ceses for the drop toa
vice prodeetios Came  to be **tttise.
Camsats The abere table tadicsas   quantifiable reslts. The are
bestits from Iproued wat   upplie. eath  ae osa  forestry operatCOs
that vare diff   lt to qu_Atity-
S. gCOC
Ausaial Stimtate          P3tJetco
gcenoc lat. of Ratun                 192                    -0.12
Undaliss Aas.sutios
2esfits                  Crop Products               Crop Ptoductie
Crop price           Hai" a   rise               Maie, bess,
ihe  ftam gat              gmdsrs en md rie
tarortlexport paity    f esoa  import
pt" gtouSdflt  ad         partty pgice, Cottee
boom  - local _ he        ftae get pott
pice,                     paity pWas.
Fertilizer Cost            mport parity to  fam         peon parity to fam
get.                       8te.
Faily Labog  Cost         Os halb 06saam Wsg        5106mm Wage
(1k 0.23 pr ay)            (1h 0.77 pet day)
Shade.       Iste           qul to tof e#&l           Eql to officiel
exchange ret.              ee*seg rate
Project     gatiaste          gntett
Hai  (aosga)                   1S0          160           9
M"Ie (Chitip.)                 148          376          91
ats                            412          517         336
eas                            I"     26     0          179
c euaisur                      24.          316         245
cotton                          04          3           2194



_ 21. -
Table 7 - Status of M!aior Covenants
Cop' IIonto
OCA Section                    Subiect                          Date                   Status
2.63                  Fellow speIftIed procuremnt               ---           O.K.
procedu ro
3.01                  Implementation with due                   ---           Reasonable
diligence etc.
3.02 (a)              Employ Finsnclal controll-r          4/30/82            Appointed March 1983
(b)              Employ Training Consultants            -                Not Employed
(c)              Employ Pubilc Health                6/30/82             Appointed late 1963
Specialit
3.04 (a)              Furnish contract and                                    O.K.
procursmont docuante
proptly
(b)              Regular reporting                                       Variable-improved towards
project closure.
(d)              PrePare and furoish project         within a months    Report may have been prepared
completion report                   of closing date    but was not furnished to IDA
3. 6 (a)              Acquiro land needed for              September 1982      O.K.
project                                                 Partial compliance - 43,466
(b)              Obtain approval for use of                              hoectres reserve *stablished
land for forest reserve and                            out of 65,400 hectares target
plantation                                               ncd 191 hectaree plantations
establish of 300 hectors target
3.06 (a)              Prepare a Helth Services             12/31/81           Plan pr pered, but not until
and Primary Health Care plan                            after appointmet of the public
health specialist
(b)              Prepare and furnish a               6/30/8 2            Program not provided, but
proram for staff ln-service                             greater than projected trafining
training                                                program was carried out
3.67 (a)              Formulete boreole siting                                 O.K.
plen
(b)              Furnish the plea to IDA             6/30/62             Oat. not recorded
4.01 (a)              Maintain appropriate                                     O.K.
a-count
(b)              Have account. audited                                   O.K.
satlfactorily
(c)              Furnish audit and audit             6 manthw after      Submission *erattc but always
report to IDA                       financIal year      later than 6 sonth after the
end                end of the financial year
4.02                  Conclude financial                   12/31/61            Arrangemnt. made but after
arrangement  with                                       consideroble delays
Agricultural Cveolopment
Corporation for construction
of marketIng structures
4.98 (a)              Allocat  mCA an additional                               Allocation not maintained in
MK 1,616,666 in fiea l 61/62                            re a  tero
and maintain this level In
real terms until project
completion
(b)              Pay MK 123,010 Into the                                 O.K.
Projecte Farmers' Credit
Fund



- 22 -
Table 8 - Use of bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUT
(Staff weoks)
FY                79    80       81       82       83      84       o6       88       87      88    Total
Preapprlsal      1.2   4.9      8.8      -       -        -        -       -        -        -      14.3
Appraisal         -       .2    62.15    6.6      -        -        -       -        -        -      es.3
Negotiation  -  -      -       8~~~~~.2  -      -        -        -                         8.2
Supervision       -     -                 9 9     7.9      4.6    15.9      9.8    12.2       5.1    84.5
Other             -     -        4.0      8.8     2.2      -        -       -        -        -      10.1
TOTAL             1.2   6.1    74.8    28.2    10.1        4.6    16.9      9.3    12.2       6.1   166.4
B. Misgign Vata
Stap of Pftict cvcte   Saw bY     nnwI~vW      N11 of    F*1kd in    %igIug1u    Fge.fww   ~         mO
P*gw dWd Pin) SNEed 3/ _et  Jfh*  S.,
StangY   tfed4        -
Pt,.aia                 MA I1     h4t 19        WA           WA           WA
Ra"iut                 LOA        Sot-ON "I                 WA            WA
(So isd
Set. IWI)
Sqvist,a1              WA        fe. 1I2 M A                               A         I       t        P
2             ICA AW                   3 r                      A, 6, L     1       I
3             tIA       Jm    M        1                          A         I       I       0
* tIA                   etz1           1          1               N        WA      WA      WA
5             NA        .Amw1i         1          1               L                 1      F,O
6             WA         fL  "M        I          1s              L         3       2       F,*
A        SM. "M        I           tl              A        2       t  A      03
8             MA         AMwta         3           7             Es         2       1       t,f
9             MA         Nrch tw       I           S                        2       -
I~ ~ 1 tO               111                      I b                        1t        2       -        -
I1            tI        bts. tW         1          8               A        2       -        -
12            to         Am  "B        I                          A         2
I   13i   M   AW   e omna WA W"j de Noiti                                       2 ao     lwwi
7i  rioA4bIgtre I a n01S1J  I.s UL%*MX  WcMtiaIt a N PtWiql ad beAmim SmiAUu   5 ' uiowq1st P S trwia& Ame&ts
./ 1  fP  mfw4jmpOj.   ,                     3 Vef mo
t  1 a I,wIw  3 a StMJe,
It  N a *      F a f _w; P a P_dg 7 *          * 0 a                          *Uu    
ke..  In "IS ewft tIWs Utwiwy Imy awnt San               it S  ut i   siwldW   fartWA gwIsttcsm ts
eztrgtudin Is' 'm  of   4/ ov 5after AM i



I I           "       i      R   {     fEX  
j  ,   ttg      t8   t-   t^'-             I'
Q*     -1-,                                          Er
;~ * I |    gR                              |   
0t~ ~ ~ ~ i ! 1     t      *1 Is   *    *I  Is I   
I~ ~~                -S 3sI  j       E      s 
o  Xz        1*    gl        a.     *     i       9      .. 
si'~ 4 a k  'Ia    j..         I   ...    ...    ..
0           iI~i                        1.1a       | 2      t  4ii' 



ONE       E       Om Olill           0t9      l             -            IWI .14
enS  OK    an                out   orn             - t t 6 Ptl
GME      -m        ht      "it        0c       c            - ODDi upt
Om        OK       wt       Pt     -    U    tw             -w              t
11     066      0501     000.       0         19 1   OKI )11 1M
1i-     at-       ZSt        W                                    im volp"4 v Ot  S16-  tZ  -                                                    WE          -
ISI-     mg.                 0       90-  5 1              ,- 4S1  Otm-                                  Om -               WA @   _-                                    t       
00(1-    O*!-      uL-    utl-        W91-      ilte-       -      soon                          we       tl       OKI       tue        OKI      OK                               n 1p '' tA
00!-     wt0.-     I-I    k-         19-        sUit        -  *1S-3                            Ka       0Oot t    esw      05;l       O5!      m5           -                      - - - ----
OK- OK        (I9      06         O-       StJW    15WlIO'                                  E         A       05        IE        0         06-UtW
6(1?     &Z:      Utv       nv         S,- 0zU-              -         II)  *        tido    --------
SI            ,vumw,                                                                               ____ _____ __
Ka~~                                                                                                                                                  tldSl ti  MI,  OK
911      OZSS S1m1 eOUl    e6sl  116  51s -t SW       WIM
;    I       Ie ttl   PIE      1.        ttOI '    t5          -          4W) *i)Jj                                                                      .4
OK   lOm  ew                   ti s n u 1          mtr -'                                                                                                                    "wv* PP es elzl11e2les A el
O1       991    0ol0       ml9    f   fS       tiEi                                            UK        @OK      Oe       WE"K       Om       OAK                       tel    1A
_   -         o         P        ee co     D        eo we     ow* wet0 Ou'.
lip!-,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"lv
91!!    1001      6919     1610        Il      toll        -           WIM W_____
OKIL    OKIL       l        U         1!       0                           ml lot5  .           gIg (ewe  OmOmg               i MUE             ODD       00           (119/011 P!"Al
COm?     OKI      COK      OKI        OKt       fUIl-     006!              low NOR
atO        t 0  l       l      t       W tU0  5l 5  ((  . (  t6ll)0  -  1   WI1M
on  4%  ml  9011  as~~    diti                 fftsl                            oBsl      onc      on                  OmB        Om           (PI WIPWAd
O1051    0tlll     we6      me1         19      8w          -                    "t A            OKI      ou       00        W        Pu        00        out           (WI 1WIM
051      010       54(OI  633          KZI      tUl         -               mlr U*         e     0*!      00(1     CUtl  Nt             001      00(1      0*!t           i'W01 9564
--        on       am        Om        Om        Om       We*       Wm6                        ----" -
*SIS tt  W                                             N    I      AI  WWI                                S4 tUi   MIMI
zTV'  - WdcT1TID   UOTVonpota do o3 - V6 *Tqv,L



Table 10 - Crop Production - Karonta - Rice
Ease Year                                                                                                                 8es  Year
1991/82     198218     t9833/4      199/U    199/86    168tt7        987/M                                               198m1/82   1982yew    19938        1981/15      /    2986/87  1987/
Nlthlt Project.                                                                                                     lncrenemtal
Local;  area (hal                   1000        1000       1            loo l0        o        1f00      IbOO                 rea Ihal                  -           -710       -9           -948       -960       -1240      -It32
Yield 2kglha)              1600        164        1u00         t4CO       IbO        IbOO       tbOO                Yield  &g)-locl           -           775        461          759        425        165        0
-Faya            -           -59        -71          102        377       -400       -500
Production (ant)           1600        1600       2900         2240       2560       2560       256015-19                                                                                     -82w-54
Production    (at)         -           -1114       ISO         -IIN       -582      _3% 0       -SIU
Faya    iWrea thal                  4100        4100       4100         4t0)       4100       4100       4100                                           Mate: I/ Pased on the with and without project situations
SwrceARM b    M 1M Flaming Init
Yield (kg/hal              2400        2400       2400         2400       2400       2400       2400
Production (atl            9840        980        98m          9840       9840       9940       9840
Total Production let)               11440       11440      11760        12090      12400      12400      12400
With Project ISM targets)
Local:  area (ha)                   -     r          8      00          800        800        000        EOO
Yield tkg/ha)              -           1600       1600         1600       1600       1600       160>
Production (at)            -           1280       1290         1290       1280       I29        1280
Faya  : erea fha)                               4 40       450          4700       490O       4900       49o
Yield  ktg/ha)                         2400       2400         2400       2400       2400       2400
Production btl             -           103 0      10800        112E0      11760      11760      11760
Total Production  atd)                         1t16O       12090        12560      13040      334        13040
With Project (ktual)
Local:  area lha)                  -            1440      1551          140        2130       2040       1648
Yield tkg/hal                         2375       2061          2357       2015       1765       1600
Prodution   t)            -            3420      3197         4UO         4m         360O       2620
Faya    f rea thal                 -           2950       374J         292         2710      2420       2420
Yield (kg/ha)             -           2341       2329         2502       2777       2000        1900
Producti  (latl           -             0         713         7466       12         4840       4636
fA    Fti*U     bt)             * .  .. t                  911                                           2 4U   * 8   *- 725- 10



- 26 -
Table 11 - Crop Production - Chitipa - Beans
8a;i Yev
191182.    19_28                   19.3184           1164/U             IlK/Us            IY/U
Ualhaat Project.
re  thl                    1000 1h0                            100               1000 1c00 lwI                                           1000
Yield (kg/ha)              400          400                    400               400               400                400                400
oducstion (at)             400          40                     400               400               400                400                400
Itth ProJect ISO tuqets)
are a,1)                                1000                   110               1150               1200              1200              1t:2
Yseld (Sq/h)                            45                     450               415               500                                  5So
Protataud let)             -            47S                   52                                                                         40
Math PrFject (ktual)
we. thu}                    -           2837                   3551              3230               323               2000               1m80
Yield I&9A,.)                           44? 6-0                                  439               391                4O                 450
pt70ucWn   gtt,             -           1'5                                      14                 g2o 0                                810
lncrertat                  1/
bea h)                     -            1817                   2Z5S               23                                  loco 00
Yield01q/h                              4                      250               39                -9                 40                so
Prietgtm  (et)             -            hG                     1802                4               Om                 410               410
Wt: 3usd    M  th ad eathmA piudt aitutie.,
Iurc. Om a NM " _fq Sit



- 27 -
Table 12 - Crop Production - Chitipa - Groundnuts
leaw vex
191Ii:     IM163                  M1z "            1MBM t4 tq4m 1I9
Ittfmt Project
ares, (ha)                 30         N                                       30 '              300               100              300
Vse1i lbqhilb             400          "I '                 400 400                             00 c0                              40
Fr)Ntaun lot)              10          I (1)               420                120               120              120               120
WItb Fromt (So luqstsl
arlha)                     -            5O                  400               40                400               05               M5O
Vueld tg/hal               -          4 5                   450               415               SOD              5                  O
Proaction (at)             -           I"                   to                24                no               211
Utth Projet Iktuat)
area Iua                  -m                                MY                no8              "I                43050
yield  l-a                            5.7                  5s                 403              11               4*70               400
frotKtim  (at)            -           M3                   3S4                314               3                197               211
bea (ha)                  -3                                                  49               H7                130               200
yield                                                                                           ATq l.a  -  1:7  IS'  i  -1'  70   0
Pra.tlat   *A                                                                 I" -  1          26 6                                s
ste: If SnAd c tlw mth ad mthAt grojelt situatums
Smwcc: iS t m  namlin htit



- 28 -
Table 13 - Crop Production - Karonga - Cotton
e[e Year
199MM9               219,3               159284              1MM               19" IIS9 S87
._.--- .-,------------ ----.--           ---  ------------- --------------_                                   _ __ 
Mithat Froject.
red  Iha)                  7W.                  700                   700               7o 70                               700               7
Yield 'iq/hal              '00                  700                   7dO               m                 700               7lO0              700
Fr;Ktzia  (at)             49                   490                   490               490               40                40                490
irtft Project (gm  tarWs,
area (ba)                  -                    7:5                   7%                                                    Boo               BP
Yield  ig/iha)             -                    700                                     70                700               700               700
dCtt    atl                -                    5ta t)5                                 S                 56                50                560
Ibth Project (Atctual
area (ha)                  _                    502                   9119              1700              i                 Ibl               791
Yield (1ih)                -                    100                    63               102 40e                             so                soo
Proactsian (at)                                                       791               1744              1602              1451              712
lncresental                I
keo  (th)                                       -199                  499               IQO               902               912               91
Yie!d tg/hI)               -                    -W00                  -;                                   0                20                :10
FroKutiot (at)                                  -199                  91                1044              902               751               12
Wt  1t batd an the oithl id mthmot project ututins
SarWC: WM S Ol&.1             WAit
--    r   :-#::--r~-::s$-t :-sss        -s'5      2 :       S     S    S      S    t :       S    :g        S     S     #     #     5 t        5



Table 14 - Burley Tobacco Scheme
es raption                                       19218                  1 919 4            I94J8             19V49&             1191l             1181 U
Hi. under lhbacco                                14                                       le                24                 21                29
No. d af  ees                                    21.                    21                 39                48                 50                50
Awerae balding size                              0.46                   0.52               0.4               0.54               0.54              0.59
Wield lIglba                                      1734                  175                1197              2525               2222              2200
Productio  igl                                    13870 I400                               1O                  34               Wm00              480
Sana UgI1                                         1500                  3000               4400              5400               60)00             W
Gross Income tl
lotal income lawegte)                            15225                   C8                72151             112               25919              35032
Haghaet   iindividual)                            1113                  243                3441               Ms3               10114             1U425
loest      ^2V                                                                             645               011                2060              2118
Am age    '                                       74t                   1421               180               39158             59                 1m
Net Income 186)
Total income la9veqatel                          72?8                   19126             4415               12704             159149            211544
Nltqbet   lindivlduall                           68                     1567               2519             4663               6875               9924
toest                                            92                     14                220                42                I4                 1409
Aerage                                           361                    706                1136              2647              31132              4310
SMIJI.: ! km 1 N tOAl aminn URIt



- 30 -
Table 15 - Livestock
1. Livestock Population
Year       Cattle         Sheep           Goats          Pigs      Poultry
1982           83,859         4,271         12,043          5,382      128,222
1983           84,685         4,400         10,200          4,500      143,700
1984           85,655         4,666         11,808          5,174      107,331
1985           85,305         4,551         12,947          6,142      180,959
1986           82,033         5,515         11,832          4,586      195.304
1987           84,041         4,299          9,025          7,106      146,114
1988           82,160           n/a            n/a           n/a           n/a
2. Cattle Slaughters and Sales
1982     1983    1984    1985     1986    1987    1988
Karonga                   4,817    4,817   6,400   5,035   11,362   1,842  2,389
Chitipa                   2,916    3,866   3,742   4,870    1,263   2,183   2,191
Total Slaughters          7,733    8,054  10,142   9,905   12,625   4,025   4,580
Total Cattle Population  83,859   84,685  85,655  85,305   82,033  84,041 82,160
Z Cattle Slaughtered          9.2      9.5    11.8    11.6      15.4     4.5    5.6
Total Cattle Sales        1,289    1,845   1,081     392       893     752    975
S Offtake - Actual 1/        10.7     11.7    13.1    12.1      16.5     5.7    6.8
S Offtake - SAR Targets       8.0      8.2     8.4     8.6       8.8  n/a    n/a
------------------------------------------------------
1/ Based on the total of animals sold and slaughtered
Sources KRADD & MOA Planning Unit



- 31 -
Table 16 - Trainina
t. rAF- M-11414
AOw:EVB                             R
457                                -- 
%.Me0  6AC        MAIM                     '0                 7tlM.   P8a       00       TO.    Uee D
t1 r             54       3                                   z1      100      :9                91       4 4       1
NS/3             14       46       a3                           6         14s           39 5P             992      ?I
Mils         v~       ih       (                          079      *:      1200    9o2        '      961      a
1941             59                59                         :066    IU       12:    t 313      71       ON       74
11364?           te       31       73                                 34       1013    42        I1       4        i t
t11Jm            24       12       so                       3.0 _                                3          0      64
I"Vp14                    13 t                                -        -       360      :S:      4        2        t0
19s                                 1                         -                30o   9n          :5       to       so
1 3              121      54       45.                       -                 203      7%       41       i7       41
2. FUD MMINIE At Ri & Oi
VW                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL
SkIP                               -im                        ACIA                mI
w~~~~~~~~~~~~( I                                                                                         rA IK
Pi.u OM0 RAW                                ?a   we  TMs  FM   as  iurn.  "s
It                3       3                                     7      IS       1512    437       74      s11      54
191              70       44       63                         940      940      10      4"       506      got 
MM/              s l               40 -                                5? 3     13s      4':     119      590      45
193              4                 67                         70       60      1m 12    49       219      647      46
1"/               3        7       11                         ::0      65       197     457      130        7      30
195/5            SW       ::5      40                         73:1    *_142960  :1M              :0 3              30
195              612      301      49                         34               146    4C4        23    7=          49
19341M           572      154      37                         BbS W             173=   ' 392    95         W7      :1
193                        M93     !                          1:65    1         12723   167       E:      4674    34
197              6         i m7    60                                           1440    w           4    547    41
5JcE:      11M00 & l    alimirq unit



- 32 -
Table 17 - Seasonal Credit
P'YSIUP  P      lAIES
1982/83              19/84             1994185          1995/86          19/67             19"7189
Inpu:            Umit                                                          -
Target      Actual  Target  Actual  Tget   kctual  Target  ktual   Target  ktual  Trget  kct.
SlA              ft       720          390    8E        403      99       165      1133    123      -        137      -        63
20:20:0           '        151         321      19       250      24       399      24      346      -        206      -        Z!0
CAN                         -          162        -      299        -      484        -      394     -        216      -        219
-D' Caed                    -            -        -     7          -      9          -      13                14                16
SM  ixtur                 -            -        -      0.7        -      0.2        -       -      -          -      -          -
flaize sed                21           41       30       29       39       45       47       40      -        20       -        23
Rice seed                 286          20       296      259      310      302      3        210     -        279      -        31
6/nut seed        a        102         7        105      14       108      10       111      8       -         15      -        a
Cotton pesticide          200           6       225      90b      250      1560    275       995     -         lIZ     -        191
FP RM1NE INDICATORS
Appraisal Target (K QOq) 190.0                  212.1             239.2             266.3              -
A chieved (K 000)          276.7                374.3             641.1             7253             659.6             609.4
Z Recovery                93                    96                94                92               74                94
No. f clubs                575                  507               637               616              604               637
Clubs in Difault          211                   64                191               253              31                329
Total fare families         -                   31136             31946             32776               28             34504
Total aembrship           6664                   4                10647             917               10911            9167 
Men                       S105                  6561              8245              7005              791              6,394
wonmn                      1559                 1922              2402              2132             2920              2773
Woen                      23.4                  22.6              22.6              2.3              26. 1             30.2



Table 18 - Proiect Implementation - Medium-Term Credit
1982183                1983/94            1964/85          1985/86            1986/87            1987/88
.SAR                   Sm                 Sm                 Sm                 SM                SMR
target       Actual   Target   Actual   larget   ktual   target  ktual   target   ktual   Target   Actual
F I.jqh1           Itea     C1            31       4.)       12       44)         -      46)      a         -        38
Ridgers                     its           11       5       7!4        5           -      5         19       -        3
f/Cas                       II* 10        1        8           -      5           -      5           -      -         38       -        27
1/Chains                    40            18       50        J        50          -      50       12        -        14        -          -
I/oXen ttirs    10                        26.5    71         1        60        6        6O        1        -        57        -        56
ULV pra)er         lies     2D            4        10          -      10          -      10
t/ sprayers                 20            3        5         18       5         4        5
Jact 'Wprayer                 -             -        -         -        -         -        -      136       -        51       -         60
Iorrowers                   1 CA          114      9"1       1l0      81"      lo         )       161       -        121      -           -
Value              K ANiN1   39.          23.0     45.5      9.5      55.2      1.9      57.9     42.5      -        29.6      -        82.9
Recovery           Z                      3                  19                0                  10                 23                 3
S(UIE: IRADD  - CREDII SECTION
-::_:=:====:::::::::::5::::::::::::::::_S==::==S=:::==:==S:



- 34 -
Table 19 - Crop Budgets - Chitina
I ha Maize
(Expressed in 1988 constant terms)
Without         With Project         SAR
Project 1/   (1987/88 Actual)2/ Targets 2/  IncrementaL 3/
_______   ____.__________  _______--   ---------
1. OUTPUT
YieLd (Kg/ha)            1,200               2,300 S5       3,800           1,100
Price (M1K/kg)                0.17               0.1?           0.1?            0
VaLue (MK)                 204                 391            64187
2. OPERATING COSTS
Land Preparation            -
Seed                         56                 38             50              (18)
Ferti ti zers               -                  230            184             230
interest Charge 4/          -                   32             36              32
TotaL                     56                 300            270             244
3. NET M4ARGIN                 148                 91            376              W)
4. TOTAL M4AN-bAYS             112                130            ISO               18
5. RETUR/MANODAY  (PK)           1.32            0.70 5I           2.51            (0.62)
Note:  1/  Local variety
7/ Iiyghbrid veriety
!i Based on the with and without project situations of a farmer who
moved from Local to hybrid variety.
4/  At the rate of 12X p.a. on seasonat credit for inputs
5/  The yield for the previous 3 years ranged between 2,GOO and 3,565 kg/ha.
Assuming an average of 2,900 kg/ha, the return per man-day wouLd Iave
been 14K 1.49.
Source:    SAR, KRA:D & tOA PLanning Unit.



- 35 -
Table 20 - Crop budsets - Karonsa - Maize
CROP AJOGETS - KMRA
1 ha Maize
(Expressed in 1988 constant terms)
Without         With Project        SAR
Project 1/   (198?/88 ActuaL)2/ Targets 2/  Imcremen:al 31
.-------     ----      -------    -----  -     _____  -    _
1. OUTPUT
YieLd (Kg/ha)              800               899 Sl          1,600           99
Price (tMK/kg)                0.1?             0.1?              O.r?         0
VaLue (tlK)                136               153               272           I?
2. OPERATING COSTS
Land Preparation             -                30                _            30
Seed (Kg/ha)                  6               16                 6           IC
Ferti lizers                 -                66                92           88
Interest Charge, 4/         -                 12                14           12
Total                      6              146                112      A  138
3. NET MARGIN                  130                9               160         (121)
4. TOTAL MAN-OAVS              112              130               130           18
5. RETURN/MANCDAY  (CHI)        1.16              0.0? !'           1.23        (1.09)
___________ 
Note: 1/  Locat variety
7/  Composite variety
'I  Based on the with and without project situations of a farmer who
repLaced the Locat variety with th  improved composite variety
4/  At the rate of 12X P.s. on seasonal  credit for inputs
51  This was an exceptionatty Low yieLd. YieLds for the prcvious 3 years
rangvd between 199S and 1700 kg/ha. Assuming an average yield of
1800 kg/ha, this wouLd have given a return per man-day of PIK 1.23 in 1988
Source:    SAR, KRADD t MOA Planning Unit.



- 36 -
Table 21 - Croo budRets - Karonga - Rice
1 ha - Rice
(Expressed in 1988 constant terms)
Without         with Project        SAR
Project 1/   (1987(88 Actuao)2/ Targets 2/  IncrementaL 3/
____ _  ___.__-- -----  -----
1. OUTPUT
Yield (Kg/ha)            1,600             1,900 51         2,400          300
Price (14K/kg)               0.27              0.27             0.2?         0
VaLue (4K)                 432               513              648           81
2. OPERATING COSTS
Land Preparation            -                 30               -            30
Seed                        20                23               25            3
Fertit lizers                                10                89          108
Interest Charge 4/                            16               17           16
Total                     20               1",              131          157
3. NET 14ARGIN                412               336              S17          S76)
4. TOTAL MANDAYS              172               17f              19S            0
S. RETURtINAlKAY  NUK)          2.40              1.95 S/          2.65        (0.55;
Note:  1/  Loca  Variety
T   Faya variety
3/  Sesod on the with and without project situations of a former who
replaced the LoCaL variety with the improvod Faye variety.
4/  At the rate of t12  p.a. on seasonaL credit for inputs
a/ average yietd for the previous 3 years ranged between 2,777 and
2,000 kg/ha. Assuming an average of 2,400kg/he the return per man-day
wouLd have been WIC 2.74.
Source:    SAR, KRADb 9 MOA Planning Unit.



- 37 -
Table 22 - Crop Budgets - Chitiva - Beans
1 ha Beans
(Expressed in 19N8 constant terms)
Without        With Project        SAR
Project      (1987/88 ActuaL)   Targets       Incremenmal lt
1. OUTPUT
YieLd (Kg/ha)             400               473            600            73
Price (1K/kg)               0.48              0.48           0.48          0
Vatue (MK)                192               227            288            35
2. OPERATING COSTS
Land Preparation           -                                 -            -
Seed                       28                43             28            1S
FertiLizers                -                 -
Interest Charge  2/        -                  5             -              5
TotaL                    28     a          48             28            20
3. NET MARGIN                164               179             260          .15
4. TOTAL MAN-DAYS            120               140             135           20
5. RETURN/MAN-DAY  (C)         1.37              1.28           1 .93        (0.09)
Note: 1/ Based on the with and without project situations
T/ At the rate of 12X p.a. on seasonat credit tor inputs
Source:   SAR KRAOD 8 MOA Planning Unit.



- 38 -
Table 23 - Crop budgets - Chitiva - Groundnuts
1 ha Groundnuts
(Expressed in 1988 constant terms)
Without        With Project        SAR
Project      (1987/88 Actuat)   Targets      IncrementaL jj
1. OUTPUT
Yield (Kg/ha)            400               428             500             28
Price (MK/kg)               0.'S             0.75            0.75           0
VaLue (MK)                300              321             375             21
2. OPERATING COSTS
Land Preparation           --                               .
Seed                     59                 68              59             9
FertiLizers                -                -               -              -
Interest Charge  2/        -                 8              -               8
TotaL                  59                 76            , 59            17
3. NET MARGIN               241                245            316              4
4. TOTAL MAN-OAYS           190                200            200             10
5. RETURN/MAN-DAY  (MK)       1.27               1.22           1.58          (0.05)
_______ ________ _______
Note: 1/ eased on the with and without project situations
7Z At the rate of 12X p.s. on seasonaL credit-for inputs
Source:    SAR, KRADD & MOA PLanning Unit.



- 39 -
Table 24 - Crop budgets - Karonga - Cotton
1 ha Cotton
(Expressed in 1988 constant tenm)
Without        With Project        SAR
Project      (1987/88 ActuaL)   Targets      Incremental
______      ---------- _____    -------     -----------
1. OUTPUT
YieLd (Kg/ha)           700                900            800            200
Price (MK/kg)             0.65               0.65           0,65           a
VaLue (tMK)             455                585            520           130
2. OPERATING COSTS
Land Preparation        N/A                 30            N/A
Seed                    N/A                153            N/A
Fertilizers/IrISticides  N/A                85            N/A
Interest Charge          -                            .   N/A
TotaL                 151                292            151           141
3. NET MARGIN              3C4                293            369            (11)
4. TOTAL MAN-DAYS          219                218            219            (1)
5. RETURN/MAN-DAY  (MK)      1.39               1.34           1.69         (0.05)
_________________________
Note:  1/ Based on the with and without project situations
/ At the rate of 12 p.a. on seasonaL credit-for inputs
Source:   SAR, KRADD S MOA PLanning Unit



Table 25 - Economic Analysis - Key Parameters
I          2           3          4           1          &           t          6                                  1e
I. IlVlMllt 1[IU  "ta.
hue,@ t                                                       -3310       4149   t0012             Am        14l         20         360         20         20          20           0
a s.                                               -1104        fi        -egg.       -53 -30               -5344        -4                                 to0  o C    30          1
bis                                                 83u        Om          914 800                 aS         410         1                                 no 1  0   *            10
21         20          W          b            it         a          la           6          0           0         20
Ce4tma                                              -338         oC        g4          112         1           Cl         4                                 w 4                    401
i1e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                             25^    36              do          a          64          Jo         is                                 is         Jo e
.s. *to    X1   a    FZ    1  .
#'Alto t*                                                     e.0         0.62       0.1         O.         *.0         0.0        0.0. 0.   0             .6 0       0.0        0.0
Ctse                                               1.1        1 1.1.t                1.101       mS          l.It       It         l .1111     l.1t       l.l9 t       .181      I.lt4
W                                                  1. LM       .M              1.11t 6. .6%                 I.m         1.ln2      L.m         L.M        1.12        1.m9       1.lQ
0                                                             0.41        0.411 o. n  *e.4t3     0.01       0.01        0.475       .4115      0.4n       0.415       0.401      0.4
of IQcO                                           4.10        01                                                       4.16        USw        4.06       4.66        4.016      4.6w
..,,........ ........... -.  U..
klo*e1 1a   l i9                                                                                 mm    1W3    2dt J 1 94                       1,18        "IOn    I aft   I 1O0
%tv                                                4300        96?        0426                     04.       401         001        Om m00                 400         40         *5
ban                                                3f          U          323         SW          am          1          2VW        zw          3           o          Tmo  re              I
A.                                                  in          639        in          11w        436o 0                  43 6w do              00          as         s0           0 
Cot.                                                30          14t        leN         MN         30          1          30        do0         130        Is"         is"        lip
,aovIO e                                             6          14          le         34212                              30         30          30         30          11         30
4. I2owIn FM 0a1n INK O0 I MM %4
. ...... - - - - -- - -.....-----
Maui                                 ~~~~~~     ~~~~        ~~~~~~0.001  0*1"  0.011  0.092  60*  0*41     60*11,       *   0.0     11."      0.Ofl      0*?9       0.091
hi.                                                0.303      &3          0.203       .113       0.33       c    0.303 *.303        0.303  0.203   0.00                          0.2
has                                               0.440       0.010       0.040      0.646"      0.0      0             0.Lo       0."         0.040      0.04e1      4.6        0.040
&W t.                                              0.06       o.O         0.6        0.06        0.0        *.0         O.06       0. 0        0.06       *0AS        0.06       e.0
Cotta                                ~~~~~       ~~~~~~     ~~~~0.3  0. 250  0.306  0.M5  0.30  0.5        0.36        0.=0       0.          0.320      0.30         2
W     Suea c"o                                     0.m22      0.32        0.322      e.m        0.322       03          OM         0M          0.3 s2     0.3m        0.
S. "MlCI eS m oIs mn    so
(gap traituac                  35 s  14                         1 54t                526         49          to *                    0          0           0           0 
*. CST IWU=S
nIU CmsIints                    34                 2.0         2.9        Lie         t.n1        3.3e       1.00        C.0        C.S         3.00      LC          to o*
1/     Sam table. 9  to 14
2/      S"  Tablo. 27 to 20
A/      S"  tables 9  to 14
4/     RlCot. to incrmentel costs of seed, f.rtil;-er and family  labor
6/      Aea1d on offticll publobed coepoite retoll price indox. tb*   igui-  for 1988 is an
.atimsto bse d on published fiouro for the first 4 months of the yoer.



- 41 -
Table  25 - Economic Anal2sis - Key Parameters                       Page 2
1           14            15           16            17            19           19            20
(2001/02
"S00         250           20           2500           N)           2500         2w            2500
100          100           100          100           100 100                    100           100
100          700           700          700           700           700          700           700
21d          200           200          200           200           200          200           200
400          400           400          400           400           400          400           400
70           70            70           70            70            70           70            70
0.656        0.656         0.656        0.656         0.65          0.656        0.656         0.656
1.181        1.181         1.let        1.181         1.181         1.181        1.181         1.181
1.192        1.192         1.192        1.192         1.192         1.192        1.192         1.192
0.8:6        0.826         0.826        0.824         0.826 0.826                0.26          0.826
0.475        0.475         0.475         0.475        0.475         0.475         0.475        0.475
4.848        4.848         4.848        4.848         4.848         4.848        4.948         4.848
19000        190           110M0        19000         19000         19000         19000        19000
4000         4000          4000          4000         4000          4000          4000         4000
2500         250           2500          2500         2500          250            0           200
600          6             600           600                        60            600          600
1500         1540          1500          1500         1500          1500          1500         1500
30           30            30            30           30            30           30            30
0.097        M).097        0.097         OM$          0.097
0.20.'       0.203         0.203         0.203        0.203         0.203        0.203         0.203
0.'49        0.048         0.048         0.048        Q.8           0.048         0.048        0.048
0.055        O.M55         0.055         0.055        0.055         0.05          0.05         0.055
0. 25        0.25'         0.250         0.250        0.250         0.50          0.250        0.250
0.32          . 0.).3 0.0. 0.30.322                                 0.322         0.322        0.322
0            0             0             0            0             0             0            0
1.00         1.00          1.00          1.00         1.0)          1.00          1.00         1.00



U.                            w.                 *  Dm*smm
510' USi1  -          t O 0                      * til   UJ A 3111W3
W           I            K                                                                                       XI N-  -                                                                           t-     u-  W   11I 
m3         1am           ism         t5          OS mIt                    wl-          m182-       rA3t        out          1WI          me3                                  Sit""  FP
US          at          In           Mt            St         Aft         Ott       .Ut             Ng          aIt          la                                                           e        Absti
4a          oe          Gu           ou          4u           oU           *            as          so           so          a                                                                 MI
is           sa         in     m    w       l    is                                    w            mv           us          S.c  tl    -.
Pt          Pa          111          Ptg  K  t                    No  tOI              1            as11 Wt                               Ute
of          sol                      oil         of           ui-           tfl        MW-          so..         gall-       aU            tnn-
*91         *91         *v 1         *91         *91 UOO                   48          Mt           1I99         Mto         SE-          an                                                   me
silm ngm
tilff       12                                                             at 195  115  1t 9t t t   till                     %16          OM                                       1W1    PM
tcm        WUt          tWI   f       Ut     tUst             INtKit                   UtK          aW      Ot     t                 WI                                              P1S14S
l           el          of          (a           01           a1           4           &            S            9                                                                                m e
at          t1 US                    ut          Ut           ox          fl                                     n to         06Wa                                                                103
Rl          Rt          ft el  on    St          So                                    %            SS           s ot                     St I    I
to         Ito          Ito         *tt          ti           its         gm           t*           tb           ob          We           ug                                                     S
{ti         tt0t        tl8         tt4t          tm          Ultt       am           lot          qm           (n           lug         &MA                                                   #no
Oa          of           (           oft         0(1          on U         9 "  1       1           Ua mtl                   St            I                                          1,-"
(I      t               UI (IS      UIl                       etI .M .9*sl USS                                   W            6
tIll        1551       *tilll Sil                 Sil         40             I         01t          Ot           11           11           11i 
ofX         of          01           01          01           of                                                                                                             %VWI13Wt15  I  I'WJP 3-P5 im
O1          G           O            O           e 0St                    Ul             tb Oa                               6Q; 01  0  o f9g31 )iea                                       ts"  J.wd
sis
is          n                                                  &ot         e~5     1169 * t                                                                                                         e
it    It          0*           &           a            I           9            1                                       
-   --  -  -  -   -----_  .. ---   - ------   - ---  __ ----     __                      -    -_ -     -------   -  -w ------  -   -.  -   __ ----  -   -   - -------------------------
0004 -     H
SMOTA 'Moues Pul ISOo -o STSAIVUV O1WOUOD3 - 9Z elqwjL



- 43 -
Table 26 - Economic Analysis - Cost and Benefit Flows  Pane  2
13            14            15            16            17            18            19            20
(2001102
0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0
*  '          ~~~150
70            70            70            70            70            70            70            70
70            70            70            70            70           220            70            70
1843          1843          1843          1843          1843             0             0             0
912           812           812           812           812           812           812           812
120           120           120           120       .120              120           120           120
33            33            33            33            33            33            33            33
35            375           37            375           375           35            335           375
10            10            10            10            10            10            10            10
3193          3193          3193          3193          3193          IM            1IM           13Y0
3263           23           33             3            3263          1570          10            1420
1640          1640          1640          1640          160           1640          1640          1640
i18           118           118           118           1l8           118           118           118
834           834           834           834           834           834           834           834
165           165           165           165           165           165           165           165
190          190            190           190           190          190            190           I90
39            39            3             339           339           339           339           339
328             7 '387   32                 97 3 2      327           3317          SW            33
24           24             24            24            24          1717          1967          197



Table 27 - Produce Economic Prices
"aite             Beans           Groundnuts           Rice
Price FOS Foreign Ports 1/  (USSINT)                      107               303                 265 4/          301
Internationat Freight   7/  (USS/IN)                      175               175                  79             175
Insurance  31                (US S/UT                       1                 6                   3               4
Import Parity at ARD"AC bePOt                             283               464                 34?             480
Local Currency Equivalent   (NK/Ton)  S/                                  1,22                 926           1,280
ARDUAC farketing and Handling Costs                       10                100                 100             lQ
Farm Gate Import Parity Price (PK/Ton)                    656             1,192                 826           1,181
Tobacco            Seed
Cotton                                                    -
Price CIF Foreign Ports  (USUNT)  11                             2,0S4              140
International Freight    (US/UT O    /                             175              175
Insurance                 (USU/UT)  3                               26                4
Export Parity at AlDUM Depot                                     1,653              319
Local Currency Equivalent (PK/Ton )  54 948                                         851
AlBUM  marketing and Hndling Cost                                           100     10
farm Gate Export Parity Price  (UK/Ton)                          4,648              951  (Seed cotton equivalent 9K 475Tn) Ut
11 Based on Wortd Bank Commodity Price Data
2/ mission .stinate
3/ At the rate of 1.2S of FOB Vatue
74/ Assuming an oil extraction rate of 255
51  At the rate of USS 1.00     K 2.67
I1  Acc minn a rnnverqion factor of 37X seed cotton to lint and 1X valwe from cotton seed



- 45 -
Table 28 . Economic Price of Fertilizer
MK/Ton ..........................
a2.o                       CAN
Price for foreiSp port                                470                      4
Inter,sniCaL Freigit                                  296                      296
I7pxu,=                  2
La4*d Cost                                            781                      709
AREC Marketing Costs and Hwidting, Etc.                72                       72
LMss   1/                                               9                         8
TOl Costs                                             862                       789
1/ Est5inted at I  f tot co



46-
Table 29 - Crop Budaets - Ecouomic Values
1 Hetawnt
fIis, It    Mail. 11    Rice  2J        Cotten        Tobosco    Broundnuts       Beans
(thitipaT     (Karong)
Yietd (kglhe)                      900                      1,900           900          2200 ZOO      U73
Price (Kilkg)  31                0.65         0.636         1.181         0.473          4843        0.826        1.192
Vatue (Ms)                         590          525         2,244           45          1O,6           353          S6
OfftRATIG COSTS
tand Pregaration 41                  30           30            30            s0             50          -            -
llftd            '91                -            -             23           153             36          48           10
Vertiti*rs         1                63           83           15t           123            sro          -            -
fasily labour  3/                 iQ          - 09          -            -9---          -       154- --           -IMQ.
Total (I)    213           213           342           474          1,41         222          118
NET  RGII  (lI)                    3n           312         1,902              )         9,185          13t         4
Locat variety becuse it is the mot diiaMnt
Faye variety becouse it is te most domir:nt
Peo tab(e 2?
Estimate ewivatent to tinanct cost ger tablo  19 to 24
Per Table 21
Citiate at IK o.7? per mn-day



Table 30 - Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements and Accomplishmnents
Original work Plan (1981)        Current Status       Revised Work Plan         Current Status               Remarks
1. Yield Surveys                     Done                                                                    Being done
2. Output Surveys                    Done                                                                    Being done annua(ly
3. Extension bDta Analysis           Done                                                                   Being done
4. Livestock Data Analysis            Not done
5. Research Data Analysis             Not done
6. Training Activities EvAumtion      Not done                                                               Ccxeptual chwFvs. Adpt ive
Research started in Fial project
yer
7. Household Composition Surveys  Done
S. Quarterly Reports                 kO              Chuqod to hal-yearly rqwrts    Last rqwt for halt-      Reort for batane 6 oaoths to
year to 31.3.u8         30.9.aa bewg coaleted
9. Project Completion Report         Drft cotlted
10.                                                -  fame kmwte*  and prception    kbt km       1            ProAlm of lack of staff e.g. nr
stu* Credit tlication                                   S enior Ptaminig I Evatuation
11.                                                -  Ctedit kWlicatfAn *   tA1                               EcJvoist. Also ca6ta1t staff
Stui*        .ot NA                        1            ria s
12.                                                -  Adhpticn of tepr0sd ftultry    OXt Doe    I
13.                                                -   nbs role in griwAtise         bt N oA    t    I
14.                                                Ad hoc Studies
15.                                                -  ointownve of Soil/fertilzer
Swwy                             Doe
16.                                                -   Carn PWatkan S%w                 aoe
17.                                                -  Ilproed _aize variety sutwy         e
18.                                                -   Ailk Pult ion  9wy               a"me
19.                                                -  Rice Yield Srvey                  DOM
20.                                                -  Horticultural S9wy                 DOM
21.                                                -  Cattle fbrtatity                  DOM
22.                                                -  Pasture Estabistot Dewelq:t    Don
23.                                                -  Visojo Swvey (Shifting Cultivaticn) Dom
24.                                                -  D*Wtion Rate Survey               Dom
25.                                                -  Livestock Migmnt                  k



IBRD 156fl
- -        '   'f*T. 4\A;AAhMARCH 19811
MALAWI
Ch4po                                 NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
(NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
R OUA.oAIESOF AGRICULTURAL OEVELOPREUT D1VIllhS
AOD HEAOaUARTERS
1 <|#Chlvbos              PROPOSED PROJECT ARfA
"'  'gv/' a   CCh. w,la    '                  EXIrStINGMAJOR AGRICUI.RERL PEIJAAC. AMEAS
W" X   r                          IDA FlhAhCIAE.  A)SISTARCE
(I                                                            Q 4B 7                               TROTHER AGENCIES FINA4CIAAL. USTISTACI
/                            \          ,~~~~
;,,  <    Z o k e  N
Nkh.to Br Bo-
I                                  / t   !              82     --   - PRINCIPAL ROADS
Z    A      MVi   B    I   A            5                                    LIKQMA                      - ---- RAiLAAYS
y ANO                                 RIVERS
'/J .)                                            I iNTfRNATI10AL SOUNOARIES
CIIARULU
I\1j                      .                                     1 jCISWLANO 
/'^   | <~-}  \               M O Z A M B I Q U E
*S        /J'>               k          (R   \               t                                                                  V4oCobroh f / ~~~~~~~~~~vo Cbm
&A'J~IRE   L    --b
At  A   '. Z    A                                                                                                                            I
'2~ ~~~~~~~ AALA*I~y   d                                                             J 
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           e
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~MR
.Ivl  0   22   A0 M  B I  Q    U ERs
~~  \_  <x _<gS th-<Mdt; l l~~~~~~fILE
- *~~~~~~~~ ~or 11) ep   4.0i  90I go, B;ITR)bi
... _ ._, ..... .. -]                           KILOME2_TE ......<rRS                 of d,/ 



IBRO 15612
'3300  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~3.0,MARCHI )98
-~~~~~~~-
M A L A W I||                                                               -  
\                                                MALAWI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO  A
NATIONAL RURAL  DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                       ,    SANOANIA
ZAMBIA           k
(NRDP) PHASE 1II PROJECT
-9' 30' \~o         
N.                                                        T <  x \a<9Dowd  J   ,>t  A  N  Z  A  N     1MOZAMBIQE
/               '5bvo   /  -  T)                                                                                                                                    / MALAWI
I   4       \  X    S X                                      X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W AS               ~~~~~~~~~~>C'f- I    |~~~~~~~~~~-I
MOZAMBiOUE   ~
IL           b-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl~pabnpawdrA
A    Maioj Researcrh Stofi*ns                                 %             *       <                t         p   iV               X    big  MicAwh
t3    Resident,al Training Center fs                                                          4EC HILLS                                        IPoooB
Ne.w Residential Trci.ing Cente                                                           w  t  c
EXTobocco Pilot Sche,nu   S\J_9  
1o.ool             Forest Rssorves                               /                                                                                                0>  > /                                         0  w-  
Proposed Forest Reserves                      )   /                            k .   fX                                     -\       >Z A ' E                           M1 A Z Al 11
Proposed Fuelwood Plontct.o,,Z ><J                                            \X\;,Y  9 D                               s  oD                                                  t        f0
Main Roods           <             {            -      ~            /      <            >           [            .           g           \           r    o     ,    ,         o, v         P
Secondory Roods           %             /             t            X             X            ~            ^            \           \           v     q     g     ,         e    o .
Other Roods                                  C, >   _/       -       -- t- '            \                                    X   t-*                                                  O
AirSedds 5X3o-31<_ X4
Rivers                                      (>                         t         .    ~     x     -      d- B.  
-        r Distnct   Saundo as                    \                                                                                           s  OAHo.obdo
- nt - snh tiohnl Boio.MCrie n                                                  . C _ILLS
_0 00              Foes Resrre                                                                                                                                                                                 10 00 o       )
Nrpoe Foes Reser\vesi                                                                                                                                  t
\              W~~~~~CHINTlHI                                                                      W.- ) ,,  
\ ~     ~ ~ ~~~~~               ~ ~~~~~~~ Y,4s j   rIA    NA TIONAt    PAP     \                   \
-~~~~ Mootgtts Radso5X  
IU11TR.5  Ip       15   2,0   25    3D  '  3<\\0 
MtLES                   10 5       I         20                 a1/j>3                                                                                                               wm-41b
-10- 30'                                                                                                                                                                                              E           " \    I   C 030-
Other~~~ Roads\                                                                                                                     \                 6w
) ,   '   g        R~~~I   U   IV   P   H  /     \  
33- 00l 2r 3oolBo                                                                                                                            34 0Dd_rre



