Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,iL t          >i  I   
Report No. 3420-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
(Karonga-Chitipa Agricultural Development Division)
September 23, 1981
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00               =   MK 0.78
MK 1.00               =   US$1.28
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (im)    3           =  3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m )=  35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)        2   =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer  (km ) =  0.39 square miles
1 centimeter (cm)           =  0.4 inches
ABBREVIATIONS
ADD        =  Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC     =  Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ARD        =  Agricultural Research Department
CEU        =  Central Evaluation Unit
DA         =  Development Area
EPA        =  Extension Planning Area
GOM        =  Government of Malawi
KCRDP      =  Karonga-Chitipa Rural Development Project
MFNR       =  Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MOA        =  Ministry of Agriculture
NRDP       =  National Rural Development Program
NSSA       =  National Sample Survey of Agriculture
NSO        =  National Statistics Office
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .......................... ................    1
A.   General ..............................................    1
B.   The Agricultural Sector ..............................    1
C.   Agricultural Development Strategy          .      .               3
D.  Government Agricultural Services .                 .               5
E.  Previous Bank Group Assistance .               .                   6
F.   Recurrent Expenditure Problems and Implications
for NRDP. .                                                      8
II. THE PROJECT AREA .                                                        9
III.   THE PROJECT ............................................... 11
A.   General Description ..................................   11
B.   Detailed Features       ....................................   11
C.   Project Costs .......................................    17
D.   Financing  .......................................   18
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .        ...................................   19
A.   Organization and Management ..........................   19
B.   Implementation Schedule ..............................   20
C.   Management and Implementation of Specific Components .   20
1.   Extension .......................................   20
2.   Training .......................................    21
3.   Pilot Burley Tobacco Scheme .         ....................   21
4.   Research .......................................    22
5.   Livestock .......................................   22
6.   Credit .......................................             22
7.   Forestry .......................................    23
8.   Water ........................................   23
9.   Health .......................................             24
D.   Procurement .......................................   24
E.   Disbursement .......................................             25
F.   Accounts and Audit ...................................   26
G.   Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting .................   27
H.   Surveys and Statistics Unit ..........................   27
This report is based on the'f]indings of an Appraisal Mission comprising
Messrs. A. Sidhu, C. Warnaars, Ms. L. Effron (IDA), and Mr. R. Ayre-Smith
(Consultant), which visited Malawi in September/October 1980. The health
component was appraised by Mr. V. Jagdish (IDA) in November 1980 and the
surveys and statistics unit by Mr. D. Casley (IDA) in November 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.   PRODUCION, MARKETING AND PRICES ...........................   28
A.   Food Crops ................. ..........                   28
B.   Cotton ...........................                        31
C.   Tobacco ..........     .....................................   31
D.   Livestock ..................................              33
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................    34
A.   Farmers  Benefits   .....................................  34
B.  Recurrent Cost Implications of Phase III ....     .........   36
C.  Economic  Analysis   .....................................  36
VII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................   41
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Charts and Tables
CHARTS
C-1 Project Implementation Schedule
C-2 Project Organization
C-3 Forestry Section Organization
PROJECT COSTS
Table T-1     Phasing of Project Costs
T-l(a)  Extension (Karonga)
T-1(b)  Extension (Chitipa)
T-1(c)  Training
T-l(d)  Pilot Tobacco Scheme
T-l(e)  Research
T-1(f)  Livestock - Disease Control
T-1(g)  Livestock - Extension
T-1(h)  Livestock - Karonga Cienter
T-1(i)  Livestock - Meru Center
T-1(j)  Livestock - Pilot Grazing Areas
T-1(k)  Liviestock - Slaughter Facilities
T-1(l)  Credit
T-1(m)  Markets
T-l(n)  Lanid Husbandry
T-1(o)  Forestry:  Reserves
T-1(p)  Forestry:  Chitipa Plantation
T-l(q)  Health
T-l(r)  Project Administration
T-l(s)  Central Evaluation Unit
T-1(t)  Surveys and Statistics Unit



- iii -
Table T-2      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table T-3(a)   Incremental Crop Production (Karonga) - Rice
T-3(b)   Incremental Crop Production (Karonga) - Maize
T-3(c)   Incremental Crop Production (Karonga) - Cotton
T-3(d)   Incremental Crop Production (Chitipa) - Maize
T-3(e)   Incremental Crop Production (Chitipa) - Groundnuts and Beans
Table T-4(a)   Hectare Budget for Rice, Maize and Cotton (Karonga)
T-4(b)   Hectare Budget for Maize, Groundnuts and Tobacco (Chitipa)
T-4(c)   Summary of Input-Packages
T-4(d)   Typical Farm Budget - Karonga Maize Farmer
T-4(e)   Typical Farm Budget - Karonga Rice Farmer
T-4(f)   Typical Farm Budget - Chitipa Maize Farmer
T-4(g)   Budget for Livestock Owners
Table T-5      Credit Fund Cash Flow
Table T-6      Key Indicators
Table T-7      Government Cash Flow - Phase III
Table T-8(a)   Economic Costs for Crops Component
Table T-8(b)   Economic Farmg4te Value - Rice
Table T-8(c)   Economic Farmgate Value - Maize
Table T-8(d)   Economic Farmgate Value - Cotton
Table T-8(e)   Economic Benefits for Crops Component
Table T-8(f)   Economic Costs and Benefits - Livestock
Table T-8(g)   Economic Costs and Benefits - Forestry
Table T-8(h)   Economic Costs and Benefits -Total Project
2.   Selected Documents Available in Project File
Project Preparation Report
Working Papers
3.   Maps:
General Map of Malawi - IBRD 15611
Map of Project Area   - IBRD 15612



I



YMALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
1.01      The proposed Project was prepared by the Government of Malawi (GOM)
with assistance from the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA).
In September 1980, GOM requested the International Development Agency (IDA) to
consider financing the Project as a third phase of the on-going Karonga-Chitipa
Rural Development Project (KCRDP). A mission comprising Messrs. A. Sidhu, L.
Warnaars, Ms. L. Effron (IDA) and Mr. R. Ayre-Smith (consultant) appraised the
Project proposals in September/October 1980. The health component and the
surveys and statistics unit were appraised by Mr. V. Jagdish (IDA) and Mr. D.
Casley, respectively, in November 1980. The Project would be part of the
National Rural Development Program (NRDP) with the same overall object-
ives of raising smallholder production to meet domestic needs, substitute for
imports and provide exports; of assuring smallholder access to inputs and
services; and of preserving Malawi's national resources. Specifically,
Project activities would aim at strengthening KCRDP-s crops and livestock
operations with emphasis on better integration and coordination of management
and field staff.
1.02      Malawi i4  a land-locked country with a total area of about 118,900 Km2
of which 23,900 Km is lake surface. It is bordered in the north and north-
east by Tanzania, to the east, south and south-west by Mozambique, and to
the west by Zambia. The land area consists of three distinct regions: the
mountainous northern region, the central plateau, and the southern low-lands.
The population of Malawi as revealed by the 1977 census was 5.6 million, with
an annual growth rate of about 2.6%; the same census  fhowed one of the highest
population densities in Africa, 60 inhabitants per km . This population is,
however, unevenly distributed for reasons of history, topography and according
to diflerent stages in economic development. Northern Region had 24 inhabitants
per km in 1977; Central Region 59, and Southern Region 88.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      Agriculture is the most important sector of the Malawi economy, as
it employs about 85% of the population, and in 1978 contributed about 43% of
GDP and 89% of export earnings; these were derived mainly from tobacco (63% of
agricultural export earnings), tea (20%), groundnuts (3%) and other crops
(6%). Malawi's soils are relatively fertile and fairly reliable rainfall
permits a variety of food and cash crops to be grown. About 3.3 million ha,
36% of the total land area, is considered suitable for arable agriculture. Of
this, some 2.9 million ha are estimated to be under cultivation at present.



-2-
Forest reserves occupy 9% of the total land area, while urban or infrastruc-
ture areas and National Parks areas account for 11% each. Of the remaining
33% of total land area presently unused, 60% is estimated to carry natural,
woody vegetation. Over 80% of the total land area is held under customary
tenure, about 2% under freehold or leasehold, and 16% is public land.
1.04      The average farm size is estimated at 1.7 ha and the average
farming family has five members. At this level of cultivated £arm holding,
the 3.3 million ha of arable land could probably sustain a population of about
9 million.  At present growth rates this would be reached in the quinqueaium
1995-2000, when all available arable land would be taken up. This also
assumes that farm production has first claim to arable land.  Over the past
decade, increased food requirements for the expanding population have been met
for the most part through expansion in cultivated area.  This has meant (hat
in many areas land more susceptible to erosion has been cultivated and that
fallow periods have been reduced. Consequently, land use planning, land
conservation and maintenance of soil fertility through the introduction c(f
improved techniques, inputs and afforestation has become increasingly important.
Crop Production
1.05      Malawi's agricultural production derives from two subsectors:  stiall-
holder agriculture and estate agriculture. The smallholder subsector accounts
for 85% of all agricultural production, and meets the country's demand for
food staples (maize, beans, groundnuts, sweet potatoes and rice), while
providing agricultural raw materials for industry (cotton and fire-cured
tobacco) and some export surplus. The export surplus from this subsector
comprises nearly 40% of all agricultural exports. Smallholder output is
estimated to have been expanding at about 3% p.a. in real terms (equal to
the rate of population growth) in recent years. Better performance by th*
smallholder subsector has been constrained by (a) low incentives provided by
low producer prices to smallholders; (b) the transfer of some 140,000 personls
and 470,000 ha of the best cultivable lancl to the estate subsector; and (c)
limitation of smallholder participation in the production of high-value,
high-cost agricultural export crops such as tobacco and tea by Government
regulation.  On the other hand, recent performance of the estate subsector has
been spectacular, averaging a growth of 10% p.a. in real terms since 1973.
Overall, the estates contribute 15% of the total agricultural production
in the country, but account for 60% of all agricultural exports. Estate
production is mainly centered on flue-cured tobacco, burley tobacco, tea
and sugar.
Livestock
1.06      The livestock population is estimated at about 900,000 cattle
650,000 goats, 200,000 pigs and 90,000 sheep. The cattle herd is estimated
to be growing at 5% p.a. and contains over 2,000 grade dairy animals.  Mosi:
cattle are found in the less densely populated central and northern regions,
although some are in the Shire Valley. They are raised by traditional methcds;
and they are considered by farmers more as a source of wealth than as commcdi.-
ties for sale. Consequently, overstocking is becoming noticeable in some



- 3 -
areas and is likely to get worse unless the current average annual takeoff
rate of 9% to 10% is substantially improved in selected problem areas. Goats
are an important source of meat in Malawi as are pigs and chickens which are
found in many households. Most of the organized pig and poultry production
is, however, in the hands of large commercial producers who mainly supply the
urban markets. Malawi still imports most of its dairy requirements, though
recent progress in local production has been impressive. New projects are
being developed to increase production and improve the processing of dairy
products.
C. Agricultural Development Strategy
1.07      The Government's aim has been to maintain self-sufficiency in
food staples, expand agricultural exports significantly and improve rural
incomes. Given the limitation on high quality land available for new cultiva-
tion, and the increasingly high cost of reclamation on marginal lands or lands
exhausted by continuous cultivation, the main emphasis of current agricultural
policy is on a sustained rise in productivity. It has attempted to provide a
growth climate for both smallholder and estate production.
1.08      Improvements in smallholder productivity have been sought through
two different approaches. The more general approach has concentrated on a
gradual improvement of extension, land husbandry and farmer training services
throughout the country; these efforts have been supported by small, low-cost
rural development projects and by special activities and programs such as
ox-training, dairy improvement, and tea development (usually funded by the
U.K. or by UNDP). The second approach has been based on the introduction,
since 1968/69, of considerably more expensive and management intensive inte-
grated development programs in four specific areas. These are: the Lilongwe
Land Development Projects (LLDP I, II, and III, IDA Credits 113, 244, and
550), Shire Valley (SVADP I and II, and the Consolidation Phase III, IDA
Credits 114, 363 and 823), Karonga (KRDP I and II, IDA Credit 282, and Third
Window Loan 1286) and Lakeshore Rural Development Project (LRDP), formerly
funded by the Federal Republic of Germany (1968-74) and now assisted by the
European Development Fund (EDF). All of the above programs are characterized
by the provision of infrastructure (roads, markets, water and health facilities
etc.), institution of land improvement and conservation measures, improved
extension and other services, and provision of credit facilities. These four
comprehensive programs - which are concentrated in the more densely populated
areas - affect about one million persons, or 20% of Malawi's population.
The National Rural Development Program
1.09      In the mid-1970s, it was realized that such an intensive level of
investment as that of the major projects could not be replicated in the
rest of the country if all the rural population was to be reached within a
reasonable time. A rethinking of the strategy was therefore undertaken,
resulting in the formulation of NRDP, to provide a more extensive level of



- 4 -
services to a larger population concentrating resources on the more immediately
productive aspects of agricultural investment. NRDP is intended to extend and
consolidate various development programs over the entire country, and is
specifically designed to increase the level of smallholder production t'hrough
the provision of agricultural inputs and farm services; particular attention
is paid to increasing the efficiency and scope of extension, input supply,
marketing and credit services. Emphasis is also placed on improved prc:ducti-
vity from already cultivated areas, on soil conservation, watershed marnagement,
and on afforestation.
1.10      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for the impleraenta-
tion of the program. The Central Services and management capability of MIOA
are being strengthened to serve the needs of the program. MOA Headquarters
and the field organization have been restructured; instead of the former
division into three regional agricultural areas with four major project3, the
country has been divided into eight Agricultural Development Divisions -- ADDs -
(Karonga, Mzuzu, Kasungu, Lilongwe, Salima, Zomba, Blantyre, and Shire).
On average, each ADD is divided into five Development Areas (DAs), each
covering an average of about 25,000 farm families.
1.11      The Government envisages a 15 to 18 year development period for
each DA divided into four phases. The activities would start with a two or
three year preparato:ry phase. This would include land and agro-economic
surveys, followed by detailed physical and economic planning; the establish-
ment of agronomic trials where necessary; construction of essential additional
staff housing; allocation of new extension staff; and construction of addi-
tional water sources, marketing facilities, rural roads and health posts. The
subsequent extensive phase, would be implemented over a period of about five
years and would include investments in production-related items such as
improved extension and training, marketing, supply of inputs and provisio:a of
credit. During the following five-year intensive phase, more attention would
be given to increasing research and to the introduction of new crops andl
processing technologies; intensification of cropping programs; opening Lip of
new areas where available for settlement; land conservation and consolicat:ion;
animal husbandry; and the construction of new roads. Finally, the areas w;ould
enter a consolidation phase, which would involve a continuation of more inten-
sive development, further improvements to social infrastructure, especially
education and health and may also include the development of rural industries.
In practice, there will not necessarily be a clear dividing line between
activities in each phase. In September 1977, the Government requested tae:
assistance of IDA, EDF, UNDP, United Kingdom (UK), the Canadian Internaticnal
Development Agency (CIDA), and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), to
finance the first phase of the program. In addition, as part of the long-range
objectives for NRDP, it asked the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) to help strengthen the country's Agricultural Researhl
Service. As a result, a joint appraisal with IDA, EDF, UK and CIDA pers:nnel
took place in November 1977 and NRDP I was approved by the Board in Noveaber
1978 (Credit 857-MAI).



D. Government Agricultural Services
Agricultural Extension
1.12      Crop and animal health extension are important services provided
to farmers by the Government. However, the effectivness of the extension
services has been questioned in view of the performance of the smallholder
subsector which tends to indicate, among other things, that extension efforts
have provided only marginal stimulus to agricultural development. This has
led MOA to restructure its extension services by instituting a geographical
unit approach based on ecological principles consistent with administrative
boundaries and upon a size related to both area and population density.
These Extension Planning Areas (EPAs) are as uniform in terms of physical
resources as possible. They total 180, covering the whole country. They
are, in turn, grouped together for administrative purposes into Development
Areas of which there will be about 40 when NRDP is fully implemented (para
1.10). The extension worker makes individual farm visits and, in some
instances, establishes farmer groups for extension training and credit. He is
supported by district supervisory staff and specialist staff at divisional and
regional levels.
Farmer Training
1.13      Training facilities for farmers and their wives have become increas-
ingly available in recent years. Three levels of training are provided at:
Farm Institutes, Divisional Centers and Day Centers. There are three Farm
Institutes at Mbelwa (Mzuzu), Likumi (Lilongwe) and Thuchila (Blantyre) with a
total capacity of 500 farmers per annum for courses lasting two or three
weeks. There were 16 Divisional Centers operating in 1980, conducting courses
of one to two weeks' duration for about 17,000 farmers and wives in a year.
All centers have demonstration gardens, plots or farms. Day Centers have the
use of a room at an EPA field office and give day courses for farmers and
their wives. The courses are centered on specific topics of current interest
or importance. The number of these centers varies annually as some are
upgraded and transferred to specific projects or new ones are constructed.
Agricultural Research
1.14      Agricultural research is carried out by the Agricultural Research
Department (ARD) of MOA, the Facu'lty of Agriculture of the University of
Malawi and the Tea Research Foundation (an independent organization focusing
on tea research). The UnLversity carries out its own research or research on
behalf of MOA at Bunda College of Agriculture. Its main contribution to
date is in the field of bean and livestock research. The ARD is a full-time
research department with national responsibilities covering all crops and
livestock. Administratively, agricultural research is organized on the basis
of research stations which, in turn, are divided into substations and district
sites. Scientifically, research is organized under research projects based on
crops or disciplines. The link between research and extension has been weak
in the past because, prior to NRDP each had a separate management and organ-
ization. Where research activities have been incorporated into a rural
development program, coordination has been better.



-6-
I.  Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.15      The Bank Group has made a series of Loans/Credits tc Malawi ftr
rural devTelopment projects. The proposed Phase III for the Karonga-Chi:ipa
area would be the tenth of its kind.  The total cost of these projects :_s
estimated at MK 180.3 million (US$ 144.2 million), with a Bank Group co:itribu-
tion of US$ 84.5 million. Project Completion Reports (PCR) and Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been written on a number of these
projects; they show mixed results.
1.16      The PPARs for Phases I and II of LIDP "considered the Project t: be
successful but more so with respect to changes and innovations introduc(:d to
the farmers and on government policies and services than with respect tc the
original productivity objectives."  While the overall average yield improvJement
was much less than expected, the PPAR Phase II noted that none of the
information on yields, production and sales adequately measured the out1,u:
effects of the obvious improvements in crop husbandry, improvemnents in l abor
productivity, expansion in acreage or charnges in enterprise mix (in addit:Lon
to the major crops), increased farm consumption, new shops and other rura:
non-farm investments and experience in administering rural programs. The
PCR for Phase III, however, calculates a rate of return) based on a numlar
of assumptions on "'without Project" cropping patterns vs. "with Prcject`
cropping patterns, of 24%. 1/
1.17      The PPAR for SVADP I judged that it had had the expected impach on
cotton output and estimated the economlic rate of return at 15%. SVADP It.
which broadened the area and crops to be developed, experienceC. several
consecutive drought years but in spite of this was estimated to have an 1]FR of
about 10%.
Karonga Rural Development Project: Phase I
1.18      The first phase of the Karonga Rural Development Project (KRDP
began in August 1972 with support from an IDA Credit of US$6.6 mi-lion oX.t of
a total project cost of US$7.8 million. It wTas implemented in Karonga
district only and pro-ect activities included:  development of irrigated aid
rainfed rice, dryland crops (maize, cotton, groundnuts), extension servif.es,
provision of credit to smallholder farmers  construction of infrastructu:e
such as roads, boreholes and health serviices. and rehabilitation of freigh-
services on Lake Malawi.
1.19      The project was completed one year earlier than expected, mainly
due to cost overruns, in September 1976. The project completioni report
and the performance audit 2/ considered the project to be -well conceived,
1/   Due mainly to benefits from increased tobacco production.
2/   Project Performance Audit Report (Cr. 282-MAI), June 29, 19379, Repor:
No. 2576.



effectively implTmented and generally successful.  The physical implementation
of the project was generally good, except for the costs of the irrigation
scheme, which turned out to be four times more than estimated, and the diffi-
culties with the construction of the jetty at Chilumba and the Lake barge.
Livestock dips, roads, health facilities, and markets were constructed as
planned, although problems of road maintenance persisted throughout the
Project.
1.20      The Project adopted a "scheme" approach to crop development which
involved demarcating blocks of land within which land holdings were reorgan-
ized and consolidated. This proved an effective means of land allocation, but
it also proved time-consuming and tended to bias Project efforts towards the
more fertile areas. Further, it tended to cause discontent amongst farmers
outside the "schemes" since there was a strong tendency to concentrate exten-
sion efforts on the scheme areas. Nevertheless, by the end of Phase I, over
6,000 farmers were involved with the schemes, compared to about 4,000 estimated
at appraisal. The estimated returns to scheme farmers were substantially
higher than to nonscheme farmers _/.
1.21      The PCR noted a strong impact on crop yields and incremental produc-
tion that, although falling short of initial targets, resulted in an ERR of
33% excluding the irrigation component 2/, compared to an estimated ERR of 12%
at appraisal (which included the irrigated rice).
Karonga Rural Development Project: Phase II
1.22      Phase II of the project included Chitipa district also and began
in September 1976. The second phase involved mainly continued support,
strengthening and expansion of the activities financed under Phase I and was
scheduled to be implemented over four years. 3/ Research was to be focused
more on local needs. In addition, the Chipoka (Southern Lake) terminal was to
be improved and pre-investment activities for NRDP I - staff and infra-
structure - were to be financed. Phase II excluded support for irrigation,
which had been singularly unsuccessful in Phase I.
1.23      As with Phase I, physical implementation has generally been good.
However, markets, roads and NRDP I pre-investments (for houses, offices, and
markets) fell short of appraisal targets, apparently because of shortages of
funds and the need to use uncommitted funds on recurrent expenditures for
Phase II (see para 1.26). Cost overruns occurred early in Phase II and were
mainly a result of lack of financial control on operating costs combined with
rising fuel costs; better financial control was introduced and includes a
system for monitoring vehicle use, a large element in the operating budget.
1/   On a per acre basis per crop returns were 25% to 80% higher for scheme
than for non-scheme farmers.
2/   The rate of return was only 6% when the irrigation component was included.
3/   The original completion date was September 30, 1980, but Phase II will
probably continue until June 1981.



-> 8 -
1.24      The impact of Phase II is difficult to measure as complete prodiuc-
tion data and estimates of incremental output are not yet avaiLlable.  Erom
the piecemeal information reviewed by the appraisal mission, it appears
that higher yields are being maintained and that credit use has expandes
although not by as much as foreseen at appraisal. Since 1977/78, howexi',
seasonal credit use has remained essentially static, which may be due t) the
introduction of credit groups and the policy which restricted loans to yloups
with repayment of at least 95%.  Credit recovery under the project improved
from about 75% to 80% under Phase I to about 95% under Phase II.
1.25      The combined impact of Phases I and II on the cultivation practices
of a large number of farmers, on incrementa:L output, on livestock healtlh and
on provision of infrastructure to a large proportion of the area's popu:ation
has been considerable but there is a need for continued support of the activi-
ties initiated in these phases. At the same time certain weaknesses of both
phases have become apparent. The linLks between research and extension :Lave
been weak and, under Phase III, would be strengthened so that technical
packages can be adapted to farmers' conditions. Land use planning on a broad
scale has been neglected and soil erosion and overgrazing are becoming poten-
tially serious problems; conservation measures need to be introduced.  The
focus on crop extension and farmer training in crop farming has generally
ignored the importance of livestock to the farmers and to the area and l:etter
integration and cooperation is required between the veterinary and agriculL-
tural training and extension staff. Planning and development of annual work
plans have been weak and evaluation activities have not been well-focussed and
financial control has become weak; management needs to be strengthened in
these respects. While Phase III is designed to correct these weaknesses, it
also would attempt to build on the strengths of the previous plhases by CtIL-
tinuing to support training, exten.rrsion, livestock and research activities.
F. Recurrent Expenditure Problems and
Implications for NRDP
1.26      Over the last few years, GOM has had increasing difficulties i.,L
providing sufficient funds to meet the recurrent cost requirements of it;
projects.  The major problem appears to be that the phased transfer of pioject
costs from a development account, where they are mostly financed by extepnal
sources, to a revenue account, where they are completely financed from lical
resources,, has not taken place as envisaged. This obviously has serious
implications for future NRDP projects. GOM, therefore, agreed under NRD]. I to
undertake a study on the budgetary implications of its national development
program and the measures it proposes to follow to ensure the progress an(
viability of the program.  The Government has now received a Structural
Adjustment Loan and made proposals for a Structural Adjustment Program.  T'lhe
Government has, furthermore, agreed to provide increased support to the
agricultural sector overall through committments to improved price incentives,
increased recurrent arid capital budget allocations to the sector, develolinent
potential studies and through measures tco improve the performance of pote.nl:ial
investors in agro-based industry,



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The Project area is Iocated in the northern tip of Malawi and covers
a total area of about 7,670 km in Karonga and Chitipa districts (Maps IBRD
No. 15611 and 15612) which represents about 6% of the total area in the
country. The area is bordered on all sides by physical barriers or national
frontiers: Lake Malawi to the east, the Songwe river border with Tanzania to
the north, the Zambian border to the west and the Nyika plateau to the south.
The geographical position of the Project area and its physical characteristics
mean that transport and communications exert considerable influence on its
development. Transport costs within the Project area, and to other parts of
Malawi, are high, with travel by road and air subject to seasonal disruption
during the rains, from December to April.
Population
2.02      The population of Karonga and Chitipa districts were estimated at
113,000 and 77,000 respectively in 1980, giving a total population for the
Project area of about 190,000 people or 32,000 farming families (about 3% of
toyal population).  In Karonga, population2density ranges from 50 people per
Km in the dry southern part to 236 per km in the wetter and more fertile
north; the Karonga scarp zone is virtually unpopulited.  In Chitipa, popula-
tion density varies from 31/kn  in Misuku to 23/km  over most of the undulating
Chitipa plain.
Land Tenure
2.03      The mean holding size in Karonga is 1.25 ha for rainfed rice farmers
and 1.8 ha for dryland. In Chitipa, excluding Misuku, mean holding size is
1.5 ha. Traditionally there is no formal ownership of land in smallholder
farming in Malawi. Recently, however, farmers have received title deeds under
the allocation scheme in the Lilongwe Land Development Programme. However,
within the Project area, the right to cultivate land and retain its produce is
granted by the village headman as the representative of the Chief (Traditional
Authority). With his approval, such rights are passed down the male line from
generation to generation; the Project area shares the patrilineal system of
most of Northern Region. One exception is where land allocation committees
for KCRDP schemes implemented in Phase II have allocated plots to settlers.
Physical Environment
2.04      The Project area may be broadly classified into three main physical
divisions: lowland plain, scarp and hill land, and upland plain. The plains
areas are the most agriculturally productive, supporting over 80% of the
Project population despite their limited extent.



- 10 -
2.05      Karonga District. The lakeshore plain covers approximately 1l% of
the district and altitude varies only slightly, between 465 m and 495 m.  .ts
width varies up to a maximum of 8 km and slopes rarely exceed 2%.  Mo,iag
westwards, a discontinuous belt of pediment with slopes up to 10% covers a
further 6% of the district.  The remaining 80% is dissected hilly lanc, rising
steadily to 1,200 at in the north and miore steeply to over 1,300 m in 9he
south. There are six perennial rivers:  the Makeye and Kyungu are tril:u:aries
of the Songwe River while the Lufifra, North Rukuru, Wovwe and Hara drcin into
the Lake.  Most of the other main rivers crossing the lakeshore plain have
water in their upper reaches during the dry season. The soil developr:ent in
Karonga district has been mainly influenced by rising and fa:Lling of the lake
level and by the deposits of waterways and rivers.  These al:Luvial soils are
very variable in physical and chemical properties and hence ithe naturEl soil
fertility levels differ greatly in the district.  To the west and in thihe
escarpment zone, the soils generally become stony and shallow, with lcl water
holding capacity and fertility.  Agricultural potential is l:Lmited to a few
areas with relatively deep soils and less stony conditions. Karonga hLas a
six-month rainy season, followed by a dry period of six months; rainfel
agriculture development is thus limited to the six-month wet season. 'Cthe
rains usually start in November and end in April although there are lo2a.l
differences. In Kaporo, which is close to the Misuku Hills in the nor-.E,
rainfal:l varies between 200 cm to 275 cm.  Karonga central is much dryex while
in Karoniga south, near Wovwe and Vinthukutu, rainfall increases again.  In
terms oil distribution, about half the total annual rainfall occurs in -The last
two monihs of the rainy season In March and April.  The mean annual teinaerature
for the Karonga district ranges between 70 -77 0F.
2.06      Land-use pattern in Karonga is closely related to soil type.  Of
some 63,720 ha of cultivable land in Karonga, about one quarter is und:z:r
crops.  Medium-textured3 better drained soils are planted to maize, co:ton,
groundnuits, and some cassava. The deep light sands are generally unde:
cassava or sweet polatoes.  The heav)y  poeo-ly draining soils, or shall<:w and
stony soils are maiinly left for cattle grazing. Extensive grazing als(: occurs
in the escarpment zone.
2.07      Chitipa District.  Extensive erosional plains cover approxim=taly
30% of the district ranging from 1,050 to 1,200 m. Bulambia (Chitipa) ]lain in
the north has a gently undulating land fornm with slopes up to 5.   Nth.;.Lre
plain in the south i.s more dissected with slopes of up to 10%.  The plai.i s are
bordered by the hills of Chiwanga in the extreme northwest (1,890 m), 1a:7inga
and Wenya/Musisi in the center (2,750 n and. 1,950 m), Nyika plateau in tCe
south (2,550 m) and Misuku in the northeast (up to 2,070 m).  The main peLren-
nial rivers are the Hanga and Kaseye draining the Bulambia plain north into
the Songwe, the Kalenje and Chambo draining east (from the Misuku and Fa:.inga
hills respectively) into the Lufira, and the North Rukuru. The Nthaliie plain
has no perennial drainage.  The soils belong to the typical ferralitic u.isol
group of East Africa. and are generally less fertile than the alluvial Er.3:' ls in
Karonga.  However, they are better drained and easier to cultivate.  The
rainfall pattern in Chitipa is not as varied as in Karonga and is largEl-



- ii -
controlled by relief.  Total rainfall is generally less than in Karonga
ranging from 87-100 cm in the northern half to 100-113 cm in the southern half
of the district with a better distribution pattern. Due to elevation, the
temperature in the Chitipa plain is lower than in Karonga and ranges from 66°-
700F. According to land-use reports, only 17% of Chitipa's land is cultivable
(50,000 ha) of which presently only 25% is cropped (12,500 ha); there is thus
considerable room for expansion. The main agricultural activities are north
of Chitipa township, stretching towards the river Songwe where the soils are
heavier and rainfall is better. South of Chitipa town the soils become
sandier and prone to drought. The extreme south, near the Nthalire plain and
its surrounding hills, is mainly cattle country, although there are isolated
pockets of crop production. The major crop in Chitipa region is maize (85% of
all cultivated land). Other crops of importance are beans, groundnuts, castor
beans and millets.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would constitute a third phase of the Karonga-Chitipa
Rural Development Project as part of the activities of the National Rural
Development Program (para 1.01). As such it would benefit from the experience
and lessons of the past eight years. The Project would, over a four-year
period (1981/82-1984/85), strengthen Project Management capabilities and
continue to support the development of the agricultural production potential
of the Karonga and Chitipa districts. In all, the Project would have 14
separate components, falling into the general categories of agricultural
extension, training, research and credit and marketing facilities (paras 3.02
through 3.21). It would also contain provision for improving water supply and
health facilities in the Project area, for improved management and evaluation
of Project activities and for limited assistance to the MOA and National
Statistics Office (NSO) with annual data gathering and analysis.
B. Detailed Features
Extension
3.02      Project activities would emphasize improving agricultural practices
to increase yields and farmer incomes and, more generally, improving rural
standards of living. This would involve extending information not only on
improved farming practices for crop and livestock production to farmers but
information on human health and nutrition also. Extension efforts would be
strengthened by providing refresher courses for extension staff (para 3.03)



- 12 -
and by adopting a pPl2 nned and programmed. approach through farmers- groups
which would include  ion-credit receiving farmers as well.  Principal invest-
sLents would be for demonstration trials, 4WD vehicles, an extension van, new
and replacement 100cc motorcycles and staff houses.
Training
3.03       With emphasis o-L decentralization of certain planning functiorns and
the establishment of annua' work plans and budgets, staff at all levels slhould
be aware of th:e concept of NRDP and the objectives and design of the Project
so that they understand their roles in the NRDP generally and in the Project
specifically.  Further, staff need to keep abreast technically.  For thEse
reasons, the Project would provide for in-service training of Staff and flnds
have been prcvided for hiring consultants (extension/farm management speci-al-
ists) to assist with the training sessions, as well as to review the content
of the training courses.
3.04      Farmers' training programs would also be reviewed by the Training
Section to ensure that courses were appropriate and relevant to the need3 of
the farmers. The Project would provide for a new residential Training Certer
at Lupembe to relieve the pressure at Baka, which is occasionally floodedl
by the rising lake level.  Principal i nvestments would be for the provis:Lon of
the training center, a Training Supervisor (STO) for the Chitipa distric:.,
staff housing, and vehicles.
.3urley Tob,acco
3.05       In order to relieve Chit-ipa's dependence on maize as a sole ca;h
.r-L? and in an effort to find a high value-to-bulk crop for the district (which
is geographically isolated) the cultivation of Burley tobacco as a cash c.rop
would be promoted,  The potential for tobacco in Chitipa district has bee:n
recognrzeL for some time and since 1978, trials with Burley at the Meru (eater
have shown promising results with the disease resistant variety Barket A-1.
Since this would be the first time that Chitipa farmers would grow Burle:o, a
Pilot Burley tobacco scheme involving about 50 farmers would be set up.
ExperiencE:d staff Wotl Ld be allocated to implement the scheme, and the nece3-
sary infrastructure, eages grading and inlput shed, a small office, staff
1douses and boreholes (pare 3.17) would be provided.
Research
3.05      The Researceh Unit would tailor its program to give priority to tile
needs of the Project Erea. Greater emphasis would be given to 'Location-
specific on-farm trials and evaluation of new crops.  Provision would be nz.de
for recruitment of incremental staff, vehicles, equipment and a small lar:)ra-
tory block to be built as an extension to the existing research facilities
near Karcnga town.
L-ves tock
3.,0J7/   :Dip Tanks.  Activities started under the Project's earlier phaes~
would be strengthened and expanded.  Three new dipping tanks would be con-
stn3crea on:e -ea'ch at Ngana and Chiwongo in Karonga district and at Chiwonaic in



- 13 -
Chitipa district. 43 existing dipping tanks would be upgraded by equipping
them with roofs and improved drainage to prevent marked changes in dip con-
centration. The major thoroughfares within 500 m of certain tanks would be
fenced to afford ready access and avoid damage to crops cultivated in their
vicinity. Provision would also be made in the Project for five additional
crushes to be constructed in the Foot-and-Mouth control area along the Songwe
River. In collaboration with the Crop Development Section, trial plots of
Napier grass and Leucaena would be established on selected farmers  land.
3.08       Livestock Development Centers.  In view of the increasing recogni-
tion of the role of livestock in the Karonga district, the Center there would
have an expanded role in the overall training, investigation and extension
program. Increased attention would be given to the use of agricultural
by-products as livestock feed. Work already started on the design and use of
appropriate ox-drawn tillage equipment would be extended. The Center, which
is in close proximity to the Project headquarters and the Baka training
institute, would be used extensively during training courses both for farmers
and staff. Provision is also made for upgrading the post of Farm Manager to
STA level, staff housing, a feed mill, metal and wood working tools and the
connection of the Center to the public electricity supply.
3.09      The Center at Meru in Chitipa district would play a similar role to
the Karonga Livestock Center. A 10 ha fodder reserve would be established and
improved watering facilities for cattle provided. The existing herd of 90
head of cattle would be expanded by the addition of 20 Brahman cows and five
Brahman bulls. A beef breed improvement program would be carried out using
the local Zebu. A demonstration unit would be built which would include
structures that average livestock owners need to improve their management
practices. The Center would also be provided with a spray race and cattle
yards, a store-workshop and office, and staff housing.
3.10      Pilot Grazing Areas.  The main objective of the pilot grazing areas
would be to evolve a system whereby cattle numbers in areas of intense arable
agriculture could be reduced during the crop growing season and increased
again in the dry period to utilize crop residues and volunteer grasses. In
addition to the Chisi grazing area, a second area would be established in
Karonga south, the tentative site being an area covering about 1,000 ha in the
hills near Nyungwe. Dip tanks are already available at or near the two sites.
Cattle yards and crushes, hyena proof night paddocks, a fodder reserve and
watering points would be provided. Brahman bulls for improvement of the local
Malawi Zebu cattle would be obtained from the Karonga Livestock Center.
3.11      Slaughter facilities.  Over the past five years, more than 3,000
head of cattle have been slaughtered annually in Karonga district, and
approximately 2,500 head in Chitipa district.  Presently, only the slaughter
facility at Karonga township provides a rudimentary standard of hygiene;
elsewhere there are either no facilities or only a block of concrete. The
Project would provide improved slaughter facilities at Karonga and Chitipa
townships as well as at a number of other villages.



- 14 -
Credit
3.12      Provision of seasonal and medium term credit to farmers has b:en one
of the more important activities of Phases VI and II. Increasing number:; of
farmers have adopted improved packages and better cultivation methods a:li have
used the credit facilities provided by Project staff to purchase their .iDputs.
Credit recovery has been very good (para 1.24). Under Phase III, credi::
activities would be expanded in Chitipa district and additiona.l staff would be
required to oversee the expansion; funds would be provided for staff, h::Iuses,
vehicles and office supplies for Phase III activities as well as provid:..ng
several houses that were not built under Phase II and for vehicle replacement.
Markets
3.13      Under KCRDPI Phase II, nine market input complexes were to havs. been
built, six in Karonga and three in Chitipa, but because of a shortage oi
funds, ADMARC has postponed building sixc of these and has now included them
in its 1980/81 capital works program. UJnder this Project, five input stoires
and one marketing shed would be constructed and one marketing shed would De
extended. Houses would be built for the ADMARC staff assigned to the
stores and shed.
Land Husbandry
3.14      A Land Husbandry Unit would assist Project Managemenit in defining
and implementing development and land use policies in the two districts. The
Project would provide additional vehicles, survey equipment andl a staff house.
Forestry
3.15      Forest Reserves.  One of the important issues for the future develop-
ment of the Karonga-Chitipa area is the need for careful land use planniiE to
avoid ser:ious problems of soil degradation and erosion from overgrazing arnd
hillside encroachment. In Karonga district, population pressure and the
rising level of the Lake have caused the population to use the escarpmen. for
grazing and cropping, particularly in the northern part of the district. In
Chitipa the problem of land pressure has not yet become serious. To pro:.ect
areas that are now threatened or may in the future become threatened by  :veruse
or misuse, the Project would provide funds to establish forest reserves J.n
seven locations throughout the Karonga-Chitipa area (see map IBRD No. 151-]2 for
locations). While sevreral of the reserves are intended to provide compl4:.te
protection, others will allow controlled cutting and grazing (see para 'i.13).
Investment under the Project would be for forestry staff salaries, housing,
vehicles and office space.
3.16      Chitipa Towni Plantation.  Chitipa town has a populatiDn of aboi:t
3,200 (1978 census) and with increased Project activity envisaged over tle
next several years, this will probably increase relatively rapidly. Up 1:o
now, the major source of fuelwood and building poles for the town has been



- 15 -
the natural savanna woodland in nearby areas. Yields from this woodland
are, however, low and, in order to ensure an adequate supply of fuelwood and
poles, funds would be provided to establish a 300 ha plantation located about
10 km to the south of Chitipa town. 1/. Investments would include the costs
of gazetting, establishment and maintenance of the plantation as well as the
necessary staff, housing, vehicles and equipment to carry out these activities.
Water
3.17      Although the patterns of water supply and demand differ in Karonga
and Chitipa districts, the water development program has consisted largely of
sinking boreholes. In the Karonga district, the borehole program has been
carried out to supplement the water supply from rivers and the lake. In
Chitipa, the river network is less dense and sinking of some boreholes was
attempted in Phase II. In general, however, it is becoming evident that the
boreholes particularly those in Chitipa, have been poorly sited. In view
of the need to provide water facilities to the rural communities, provision
would be made for the sinking of about 30 boreholes; eight would be for
cattle dip tanks, two for the Pilot Tobacco Scheme, one for the health sub-
center at Mwenchilanga, and the rest would supplement other water supply
programs in the two districts.
Health
3.18      To consolidate earlier efforts and to increase both effectiveness
and efficiency of health services in the Project area, it is proposed to
develop and promote preventive health services, including the administration
of the district's health services and develop and test approaches to primary
health care emphasizing ways to reduce recurrent costs for health.
These activities would be undertaken on a pilot basis; the experience
gained with the pilot program would be drawn on in designing health service
programs in other parts of the country. To achieve these objectives, it is
proposed to make all public health activities in each district the responsi-
bility of a public health nurse who would be guided and supervised by a
public health physician with responsibility for the entire Project area. It
is proposed to activate village health committees to support community
initiatives through income generating activities to develop primary health
care. Since these would be pilot activities a flexible approach would be
followed so as to enable the Ministry of Health, in consultation with IDA, to
make changes in the strategy as necessary. The Project would provide for a
sub-center, two maternity units, equipment and funds for employment of an
internationally recruited public health officer for a period of three years.
1/   The Wood Energy Project now underway has established two seedling
nurseries in Chitipa district for seedling sales to farmers; it is
expected that over five years about 300 ha of individual woodlots will be
planted, but these nurseries are meant to serve the rural areas of
Chitipa district (Ntaline and Misuku) and the output from the woodlots
would not serve the needs of Chitipa town.



- 16 -
Project Administration
3.19      Monitoring and Evaluation. A Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Section already exists, it has been functioning for about seven years, tt.r:ugh
Phases I aLnd II. It is currently staffed by two survey teams, including
supervisors, two data analysts, a volunteer data processing officer, an
assistant evaluation officer and an evaluation officer. Funds would be
provided for recruitment of a data processing officer to replace the vollin:eer
who is due to leave by the beginning of P?hase III, an additional data angilfst,
a typist, housing, replacement of vehicles and some equipment. Training fulnds
would also be included for local courses for the data processing officer. The
Central Evaluation Unit (CEU) of the Ministry of Agriculture in Lilongwe
provides technical back-up and coordination for evaluation sections and units
of all Rural Developme!nt 1/ projects.  Funds would be provided for the purchase
of  micro-computer, for overseas training of the data processing officer and
an additional post, assistant data analyst, would be created.
3.20      Organization and Management.  Phase I and II activities suffered
from weak management and planning.  This has resulted in a failure to estab-
lish priorities for use of Project funds, to develop annual work programs,
or to install an effective monitoring system based on the objectives defined
in the work programs. To correct this weakness, the Project would provide
funds for a planning economist to work as part of Project management.
To strengthen financial control, technical assistance would be provided
for three years to employ a financial controller; a major aspect of his/her
job would be to train a Malawian Senior Accountant in all aspects of Project
accounting, budgeting and financial control. Assurances were obtained that
the experience and terms and conditions of employment of the internationaLly
recruited :financial controller would be satisfactory to IDA and that he would
be in post no later than April 30, 1982.
National Sample Survey of Agriculture
3.21      Survey and Statistics Unit at MOA Headquarters. The National
Statistics Office (NSO), in conjunction with evaluation units in. project
areas, is currently carrying out a National Sample Survey of Agriculture
(NSSA) over the period 1980/81; the last National Survey of this sort was done
in 1968/69. The Survey is being financed by the IDA-assisted projects in
those development areas covered by IDA-financing and by the British Overs4.as
Development Administration in non-project areas.  At the end of the 1980/1
survey, it would be desirable to maintain a national survey capability,
although on a reduced scale from the NSSA. To do this, funding would be
provided through the proposed Project to maintain NSO staff and vehicles :or
annual data gathering and analysis, but with the survey staff and accompal.ying
statistical. unit to be maintained at MOA headquarters in Lilongwe.  This  o'olld
facilitate coordination and cooperation with existing evaluation units in
1/   Including Lilongwe Land Development, Shire Valley, Karonga-Chitipa auld
the development areas of NRDPI.



- 17 -
established project areas which would be essential in order to avoid duplica-
tion and overburdening the evaluation units. Funds would be provided for
staff vehicle replacement and operating costs, housing, office space, techni-
cal assistance, and training. The organization, management, and implementa-
tion of this component are discussed further in paragraph 4.23.
C. Project Costs
3.22      Total project costs are estimated at MK 6.7 million (US$8.6 million)
of which about US$4.5 million represent the foreign exchange costs. The
phasing of detailed Project costs by component and by category of expenditure
are in Tables T-1 through T-1(t) and are summarized below:
Foreign Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total    Exchange  Cost
-MK 000                          US$ 000                     %
Agric. Extension            405     439      844       518     562    1,080        52        12
Training                    251     261      512       321     334       655       51         7
Pilot Burley Tobacco         78      59      137       100      75       175       43         2
Research                    139     193      332       178     247       425       58         5
Livestock                   316     273      589       405     349       754       46        9
Credit                      113     132      245       145     169       314       54        4
Marketing                    92      62      154       118      79       197       40         2
Land Husbandry               21      61       82        27      78       105       74         1
Forestry                    212     137      349       271     175       446       39        5
Water Facilities             60      90      150        77     115       192       60         2
Health                      146     299      445       187     383       570       67         6
Project Administration    130       283      413       166     362       528       68         6
CEU                          19      20       39        24      26        50       50         1
Survey Unit                 500     500   1,000        640     640    1,280        50       14
Total Base Cost    2,482   2,809   5,291    3,177   3,595    6,772           53       100
Physical Contingencies    139       212      351       178     272       450       60        6
Price Contingencies         539     544   1,083        690     696    1,386        50        20
Total Cost          3,160   3,565   6,725    4,045   4,563    8,608          53       127
Project base costs have been estimated at June 1981 prices.  No taxes or
duties are levied on project goods, and income taxes are negligible. Physical
contingencies have been included at 10% on all civil works, vehicles and
equipment, and on selected components, such as forestry reserves and the
plantations, where the costs of inputs and salaries are mainly establishment
costs. Total physical contingencies of Phase III incremental costs are 4% of
total base costs. Price contingencies have been included on the international



- 18 -
component of vehicles, equipment, and other supplies at 9% in 1981; 8.5t in
1982; and 7.5% thereafter; on the local cost component of these items aid on
staff and training costs at 11% in 1981; and 10% thereafter.  On civil 'qcrks,
price contingencies have been included on foreign and local costs togetYier at
18% in 1981; 17% in 1982; 16% in 1983; and 'L5% thereafter and reflect tile
rising costs of inputs as well as the pressure on the construction industry
capacity in Malawi. Price contingencies total about 20% of Project bas:Iine
costs.
3.23      Project costs provide for a total of four man-months of short-term
consultances for the staff in-service training program, thirty-six man-months
each for an expatrial:e financial controller and a public health officer and
24 man-months for the surveys and statistics unit at an estimated total cost
of MK 487,000 (US$623,000).  This includes cost of salaries, fees, travel
subsistence and for the financial controller, housing.  The average cos: per
man-month (for salary, fee, travel and subsistence) is estimated at MK 'f,900
(US$6,272).
D. Financing
3.24      The financing of Project costs would be as follows:
US$ million        Percent
IDA                          7_3               85
GOM                           . 3'             15
Total              8.6               ioo0
The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOM and would cove: all
the foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$ 4.5 million) and US$2.8 afllion,
or 69% of local costs. In order to maintain ongoing Project activities
assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOM would allocate to ,ICA
and additional amount of about MK 1.0 million in fiscal year 1981/82 and
maintain this level in real terms until the Project is completed.
3.25      Part of the Government contribution would be the construction
of the input sheds, marketing complexes, and staff housing for ADMARC, a-.
an estimated cost of YK 154,000 (US$196,000).  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that a financing arrangement for the marketing compolient
satisfactory to IDA would be formalized between GOM and ADMARC no later ;han
December 31, 1981.



- 19 -
3.26      For financing the Project's Credit Fund to purchase incremental
inputs, assurances were obtained at negotiations that if the Credit Fund
were to require funds over and above MK 300,000 (US$385,000) at its disposal,
the Government would provide up to an additional MK 125,000 (US$160,000) to
the Credit Fund at a time to be determined in consultation with IDA. This
would replace the MK 125,000 the government has withdrawn from the fund (para
4.12).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      MOA would continue to have overall responsibility for implement-
ing the Project, apart from the health component (including the Bilharzia
control program 1/) which would be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Health, the water component which would be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Lands, Valuation and Water and technical back-up for the forestry component,
which would come from the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR).
4.02      In line with the NRDP set-up, the overall organizational structure
would remain as before with the Program Manager being directly responsible
to the Chief Agricultural Development Officer (CADO) at MOA headquarters. At
the ADD level, a number of organizational changes would be made to provide for
coordination of activities of all departments in MOA, and to improve the
integration and coordination of section programs within the Project. Staff
working in the area who previously reported directly to their Departments
in MOA headquarters would be brought into the organizational structure. The
Livestock Development Section, which would bring together Animal Husbandry and
Animal Health, would be part of the Project with the Senior Livestock Develop-
ment Officer reporting to the Program Manager (Chart C-2). The Forestry
Section would integrate the forestry development component into the Project as
would the Research Unit which would give greater emphasis to resolving area-
specific problems. In practice, virtually all senior staff would have two
lines of responsibility. The more important line of responsibility would be
to the Program Manager for day-to-day activities and coordination of work
programs. The second line of responsibility would be technical, to specialist
senior staff at MOA and MFNR headquarters. The Training Section, in view of
the importance attached to its program, particularly the staff training pro-
gram, would be directly responsible to the Program Manager (see Chart C-2).
Coordination and cooperation between Extension, Research, Credit and Land
Husbandry would be strengthened by placing these units under the coordination
of a Senior Crop Development Services Officer. Project Management would be
expected, with assistance and guidance from MOA headquarters, to gradually
develop an independent capability to plan and implement the total development
program.
1/   In earlier phases the Bilharzia Control Program was implemented directly
by Project Staff.



- 20 -
4003      In the past, KCRDP has initiated the creation of ad hoc committees
representing local Feople to deal with credit recovery and prisgram implemen-
tation. However, the committees have nIot been used systematically to assist
in the planning or implementation of the Project.  Under Phase III, the
committees, particularly the Area Actic,n Groups and Farmers Committees I/
would be brought into active collaboration with Project staff.  They wou:d be
particularly involved in the content and organization of extension and train-
ing programs (see para 4.07), the credit program and the siting of various
infrastructural investments such as water supplies and dips. They would also
be involved in the demarcation and use of pilot grazing areas and movenai[t
corridors for cattle. The overall objective would be to promote greater
participation of local people in the implementation of the Project.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.04      All project investments and financing for staffing and operating
costs would be provided over a four-year period.  The implementation rates
of the various components are shown in Chart C-1.  Details for each component
can be seen in the cost tables (Table T-1 to T-l(t); key indicators are
summarized in Table T-6D
C. Management and Implementation of Specific Components
Extensiont
4.05      In keeping with the coordinatead and integrated approach to pr(jzct
planning and implemerntation that would be adopted in Phase III, the extension
unit would draw up it:s program in consultation with other units and sections.
An integrated crop/livestock extension program would be developed in cocpara-
tion with the Livestock Section.  The active participation and cooperati.on of
the District and Village level committees would be sought to obtain the
correct initial orientation and implementation of the program.
4,06      Each extension field assistant. (FA) would cover an area designat:ed
in accordance with considerations of- population, ecology and broad combina-
tions of crops and livestock and would have a planned work program. Fornation
of farmers groups would be encouraged. No changes in overall staffing are
envoisaged. The overall ratio of farmers to field assistants would remaia at
about 350:1.  A farming systems approach would be adopted wherein the whl]e
1/   Area Action Group:  Headed by the rChief of the Area.  Members repre3Ent
various interests in the area, i.e. village headmen, agricultural a-Ea
supervisors, party ofificials, etc.
Farmers- Committee: Elected by farmers themselves and responsible
for implementation of Project activities particularly crecit activi-ies
in tlheir sections.



- 21 -
farming enterprise with its competing demands on land, labor and capital are
taken into account and extension agents would assist farmers with problems of
their specific area and farming system.
Trairning
4.07      The training responsibilities would be divided into in-service
training for Project staff and farmers' training. Periodic refresher courses
would be held for staff at all levels. The format and content of these
courses would be decided by Project Management, but would include both general
and technical aspects related to project and program planning and implementa-
tion. Extension staff would receive refresher courses on crop and livestock
husbandry and special emphasis would be placed on the correct understanding
and implementation of technical recommendations to farmers. The farming
systems approach would be highlighted and courses on the preparation of annual
work plans, extension approach and farm management would be conducted by
experienced staff. Roughly 200 field assistants would be trained each year-100
from each district. Short-term consultants would be engaged to assist in the
training program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
staff training program would be submitted to IDA for comment by June 30, 1982;
and that the terms of reference, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants would be satisfactory to IDA. The farmers'
courses would be based on local demonstrations at selected farmers' sites (to
be done in conjunction with the extension staff), day and residential courses
at training centers. A special effort would be made to involve more women in
the training programs. Programs for women would include aspects of agricultural
production as well as home economics. About 5,000 farmers would receive
training over the four year period, from 800 in year 1 to 1,500 farmers in
year 4.
Pilot Burley Tobacco Scheme
4.08      The Pilot Burley Tobacco Scheme would be located at Kasama, about 20
miles from Chitipa town and in close proximity to the Meru Agricultural Center
(see map IBRD No. 15612). Since Burley tobacco may not be grown on customary
land by law, the total demarcated area of approximately 210 ha (525 acres)
would be registered as public land and leased by the Project through the
Traditional Authority. The District Development Committee, with advice from
Project staff, would select 50 farmers who would be invited to settle on land
reserved for that purpose. They would be allocated 4 ha of land and grow
at least 0.4 ha and a maximum of 0.8 ha of tobacco per year on a four-year
rotation. Credit would be available to farmers to purchase inputs and raw
material to build curing barns. The scheme would hire transport to take the
tobacco to the auction market in Lilongwe, paying the cost of transport from
the proceeds of the tobacco sales. A team of MOA graders would be employed
for a period of about 4 months in each of the first two years of the scheme
after which the farmers themselves are expected to take over the grading
exercise. A tractor and equipment would be available from the Meru Research
Station for the first two years of the scheme. The scheme would be managed
by a Senior Technical Assistant (STA) and a TA, both of whom would be expe-
rienced in Burley tobacco cultivation. They would assist and train a Scheme



- 22 -
Committee on all aspects of tobacco production and the committee would
gradually take over responsibilities at the end of the Project period.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an STA with suitable
experience in the cultivation of Burley tobacco would be employed at the
Scheme not later than March 31, 1982.
Research
4.09      The research program would be determined in consultation with other
Project units and sections and greater emphasis would be given to Proje::t
area-specific research.  The extension, evaluation, land husbandry and Live-
stock staff would be involved in identifying farmers' problem areas and
planning on-farm trials to seek solutions to problems and develop improv'ed
husbandry recommendations for incorporation into the various farming sy tems
of the two districts. Technical guidance would be provided to the Proj(.ct
research staff by senior specialist staff at: MOA headquarters who would aLso
participate in the program reviews. Research staff would also participaite in
the in-service training program for Project staff.
Livestock
4.10      The posts cf District Veterinary Officer and Senior Animal Husbandry
Officer would be combined and designated' the Project-s Senior :Iivestock
Development Officer (SLDO). He would be assisted by a Technical Officer (TO)
who would specifically be responsible for the Extension Prograa, supervise the
on-going ox-training program, the fodder trials on farmers' land, promot: and
develop the pilot grazing areas at Chisi and Nyungwe and participate in the
training activities. Initially, because of the greater concent.ration of
population, both human and livestock, in Karonga, the concentration of eEfort
by the TO would be in the Karonga district.
4.11      Policies on the use of the Pilot grazing areas would be develo ed in
consultation between the Livestock, Forestry, Land-Husbandry and Extensi3r.
units and sections on the one hand and the District Development. Committe:.
and the relevant Area Action Groups on the other. Charges would be made for
the use of the facilities provided in the grazing areas at a rate agreed to by
the District Development Committee and they would be determined accordin,  to
the facilities available and the prevailing rate charged for the use of ,orest:
resources by cattle.
Credit
4.12      The Credit UJnit would continue to provide farmers with seasona:. qnd
medium term credit for inputs for cotton, maize, rice, and groundnuts pr(:dlc-
tion and for the pilot Tobacco Scheme 1/ (para. 4.08). About 1,200 additlional
1/   Credit is available for seasonal inputs at 15% but for self-accounting
farmer groups the charge is 10%. Medium term credit is available
at 10%, repayable over 3-5 years depending on the item.



- 23 -
farmers in Karanga and 2,000 farmers in Chitipas are expected to borrow funds
under Phase III. In addition, medium term credit would be made available for
purchasing fodder seed, fencing, dairy cows, and oxen. The livestock section
staff would help the credit staff to appraise the requests. Government has
recently withdrawn MK 125,000 (US$160,000) from the credit account to finance
part of its local contribution to Phase II. Calculations made on the basis of
a number of assumptions indicate that requirements for incremental credit
under Phase III would, by Project year 3 (1983/84), exceed the funds available
(Table T-5). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that if the credit
fund were to require funds over and above the funds at its disposal, the
Government would inject up to an additional MK 125,000 into the credit fund.
Forestry
4.13      The Forestry section's organization is shown in Chart C-3. For the
seven proposed forest reserves, 15 forest guards would be hired and trained
on-the-job over a three to six month period. Six of the seven reserves,
involving 11 forest guards, would be administered from Chitipa district; the
forest guards in Chitipa would report to three forest rangers (TA's) who would
in turn report to a forester (TO), who would also be responsible for the
Chitipa town plantation. The reserve in Karonga district (Karonga escarpment)
would be handled by four forest guards who would report to a senior forest
ranger (STA). All of these positions (15 forest guards, three forest rangers,
one senior forest ranger and one forester) would be incremental; these staff
would report through appropriate channels 1/ to the ADD Senior Forester (STO).
The ADD Senior Forester now in post would be responsible to the Program
Manager as well as to the Regional Forestry Officer for the Northern Region
located in Mzuzu. Some of the reserves would be open to cutting and grazing
and control would be exercised, as it is elsewhere in Malawi, by the Forestry
Department who would issue annual licences for a fee. The revenues realized
from the issue of these licences, as well as from sales of fuelwood and poles
from the Chitipa plantation (para 4.14), would accrue to the Forestry Depart-
ment as is the practice in the rest of the country.
4.14      The Chitipa plantation would be established by a foreman who would
be responsible to the forester in Chitipa. As with the forest reserves,
gazetting would precede the planting and in both cases - the reserves and the
plantations assurances were obtained during negotiations that appropriate
written approval would be obtained for forestry use of the land not later than
September 30, 1982.
Water
4.15      The siting of the eight boreholes for the cattle dip tanks, two for
the Pilot Tobacco Scheme and one for the health sub-center at Mwenchilanga
would be done in consultation with the Department of Lands, Valuation and
1/   That is, the forester in Chitipa would report directly and the senior
forest ranger in Karonga would report through the existing forester
to the existing Senior Forester.



24 -
Water and the Development Comnmittees. Definiite sites for the rest of tlhie
boreholes have not been identified but Project management would draw up a plan
after ful]L consultation between Project Management, the Department of L-nds,
Valuation and Water, the Development Committees of the two districts. '1'ha
plan would be submitted to IDA for comments not later than June 30, 1982..
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Health
4.16      Implementat.ion of the health component (including the Bilharzia
control program) would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. T'he
Assistant Chief Medical Officer (MCH and. Primary Health Care) would be ce-
signated coordinator of the component.  He would prepare detai:Led plans of
action for developing preventive health services and primary health care
activities in each district and submit these to IDA for comments by Dec-
ember 31, 1982. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions. In consultation with the Public Health Officer he would develop a.
implementation schedule for these activities. The construction of physica.l
facilities would be the responsibility of the Program Manager in coordination
with the M4inistry of Health. The Ministry of Health would:
(a)  prepare a program for planning, tendering, contracting,
constructing and commissioning of facilities,
(b)  provide guidelines to the Program Manager on these matters;
xc)  approve sites in instances where the location of the
facilities may be changed from existing ones;
(d)  prepare prototype designs and preliminary specifications;
(e) approve firnail designs and specifications;
(f)  approve tender documents and bid evaluation;
(g) approve requests for payments to contractors; and
(h)  monitor the progress of construction.
4.17      The Public Health Officer would be internationally recruited an:l
his terms of reference, qualifications and terms and conditions of employ:1ent
would be satisfactory to the Association. He would be in post r.o later trian
June 30, 1982. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
D. Procurement
4.18      Procurement under the Credit would be in accordance with Bank/li::A
guidelines.  Specifically,



- 25 -
(a)  Orders for vehicles, spare parts, machinery and equipment
(US$0.63 milion) 1/ would be bulked as far as possible,
and orders of US$100,000 and above would be subject to
international competitive bidding procedures. The
bidding documents would indicate that suppliers will
maintain or agree to maintain an adequate after--sales
service and inventory of spare parts;
(b) orders for vehicles, spare parts, machinery and equipment
that cannot be bulked in packages of US$100,000 and above,
up to US$250,000 in aggregate, would be procured in accordance
with existing local procedures which are acceptable to IDA;
(c)  civil works construction, including housing, stores, offices,
boreholes, rehabilitation and construction of livestock dips,
and health facilities (US$2.28 million) would be too small and
scattered to attract international interest. The largest single
item of construction that could be bulked would be construction
of housing at an estimated cost of US$1.78 million, but at
sites in the two districts which are scattered, isolated, and
difficult to reach. Procurement would, therefore, be by
contracts awarded following locally advertised bidding (although
foreign firms would be entitled to compete); if approved by IDA,
procurement would be by force account of the Ministry of Works
or of MOA.
E. Disbursement
4.19      Disbursement of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditure and 85% of local expenditure for
vehicles, spare parts, equipment and other materials; (US$800,000);
(b)  100% of foreign expenditure and 85% of local expenditure for civil
works, except for office and grading shed for the Pilot Tobacco
Scheme, by (i) force account; and (ii) others; (US$2,300,000);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
for bulls, cows, and agricultural inputs and supplies;
(US$150,000);
(d) 85% of local expenditures for all operating costs, excluding
agricultural inputs and supplies and excluding forestry, CEU,
Survey Unit, and Pilot Tobacco Scheme expenditures; (US$1,870,000);
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
incurred by the Central Evaluation Unit; (US$50,000);
1/   All figures in this paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 26
(f)  100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
incurred by the Survey Unit; (US$1,100,000);
(g) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
for all operating costs for forestry reserves and the ChitipE&
Plantation; (US$100,000);
(h)  100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
for grading shed, office and operating costs for Pilot
Tobacco Scheme (US$150,000).
An amount of US$780,000 would be unallocated. Disbursement against categories
(a), (b; ii), and (c) and foreign expenditures under (e), (f), (g), a:id (h)
would be fully documented. Disbursements under categories (a; i) and (d); an,i
local expenditures under categories (g) and (h), would be made agains: state-
ments of expenditures certified by the Program Manager and the Financ:al
Controller of the Project. Disbursements against local expe!nditures tinder
categories (e) and (f) would also be made against statements of expenditures,
signed by the Principal Accountant of MOA. The documents for expendil:ures
covered by SOEs would not be submitted for review with the disbursement
requests but would be retained by the borrower and would be available for
inspection by IDA in the course of normal supervision missions.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.20      All Project funds would be channelled from the Ministry of Finance
to MOA to be budgeted to the Karonga-Chitipa ADD, to the CEU, and to I:ha
Survey Unit activities (which would b(e administered by MOA - see parajiraph
4.23). Project accounts would be maintairned at Project headquarters at
Karonga (with separate accounts for the credit fund operations), except for
the accounts of the CEU and Survey Unit activities, which would be main:ained
by the Principal Accountant of MOA.  In previous projects, including Phases I
and II of KCRDP, the accounts have been audited by the Auditor Genera]. and,
this arrangement has proved satisfactory to IDA.  Assurances were obtz.ined at
negotiations that all Project accounts, including statements of expenciI:ures,
would be audited by the Auditor General or by independent auditors whcse-
experience and qualifications were acceptable to IDA and tha& the audited
accounts together with the auditors report would be submitted to IDA r.t: later
than six months following the end of the fiscal year.
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.21      The Monitoring and Evaluation Section would continue to carrr out
annual surveys to collect data on yields, output and household composi:ion and
ad hoc studies according to Project needs.  A computer progrEam and fac:ilities



- 27 -
are now available (in Blantyre) for processing the data, which should expedite
the procedures. Project Management would identify their information needs for
monitoring, evaluating, and planning purposes and these needs would be accorded
priority in the Evaluation section's work program. The existing questionnaire
would be simplified and with the provision of a programmable calculator and
data processing staff, timely processing and simple data analysis would be
carried out so as to be useful to management and to the extension, livestock,
research, and training activities under the Project.
4.22      Project Management would simplify the reporting procedures for
Quarterly Reports and reorganize the reporting responsibilities so as to
distribute them among units implementing the Project. The Monitoring and
Evaluation section would continue to be responsible for compiling Quarterly
Reports. A Completion Report on the execution of Phase III would be prepared
promptly after the Project-s completion, and in any case no later than six
months after the Credit closing date. Assurances on these reporting require-
ments were obtained at negotiations.
H.  Surveys and Statistics Unit
4.23      The Project would provide funds for NSO staff and operating expenses
so that annual national agricultural surveys could be carried out in non-
project areas, which involve about 50% of the country, thereby providing a
nationwide data collection capability. The data would be gathered in non-
project areas from the same questionnaire used in project areas. To ensure
coordination with evaluation units in the Project areas, the NSO staff would
be under the direction of the MOA, would be located at MOA headquarters
in Lilongwe, and all data processing and analysis would be done jointly by
CEU and NSO. In the process of establishing this national capacity, the
priorities of the evaluation units, which are established to service their
respective projects, should not be undermined. Project Management would be
fully consulted in each case and their agreement sought if additional data or
surveys were proposed to be collected or carried out.



- 28 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Foodcrops: Rice, Maize, Groundnuts and Beans
Foodcrop Production
5.01      Smallholder production is the predominant source of food and cash
crops in the entire Karonga-Chitipa ADI), with several organized irrigatel
rice schemes for smallholders in the Karonga District. Rice, cassava, maize,
and groundnuts are the major foodcrops in Karonga District, 1/ with rice
(mainly rainfed paddly) occupying about 9,000 ha, or 45% of the cultival:le
area; in Chitipa, the major crops are maize, millets, beans, groundnuts and
vegetables; maize is cultivated on about 8,800 ha, or 80% of the cultivable
land.  In Karonga, most of the cultivable area is under crops or livestock
and because of this, only limited expanision in total acreage is anticipated,
although under the Project some farmers are expected to shift out of cassava
and into rice, maize and, to a small extent, cotton. In Chitipa, however,
where more land is available for expanded cultivation 2/, it is expected that
some new areas would be planted. Chitipa also has particularly fertile areas
(para 2.07), so that higher yields are expected from farmers- adapting a
combination of improved cultivation practices and higher yielding hybrid and
composite maize varieties. The combination of the increases iin acreage and
the increases expected in yields (see Table T-3a-e for details) would result
in an annual incremental production by Year 4 as follows:
Incremental Production at Full Production (1985/86)
(Tonnes)
Rice (paddy)       Maize         Groundnuts          Beans
Karonga          640             560            -                   -
Chitipa           -           2,880            130               320
Total            640          3,440            130               320
Because subsistence production is important, and a large proportion of rarketed
foodcrops passes through informal channels, estimates of total producti(n are
rough, but these incremental amounts probably represent about 2% of totkil rice
(paddy) production; L0% of maize; 25% oif groundnuts; and 22% of beans.
I/   Rice is also an important cash crop for farmers in Karonga, partictla.rly
in the Northern part of the District.
2/   And where the constraint on expanding the cultivated area is probably
labor.



-D 29 -
Consumption
5.02       The Karonga-Chitipa ADD is self-sufficient in rice, and in northern
Karonga, farmers have relied on rice as their major cash crop. Although
rice consumption has been growing in the country, exports have remained
significant in recent years and additional Faya rice production under the
Project would be exported from the region and from the country.
5.03      Groundnuts and beans are important ingredients in the Malawian
diet, and incremental production resulting from Project activities would most
likely be consumed on the farm or within the Karonga-Chitipa area. Although
groundnuts have historically been exported from Malawi, in recent years
official purchases from the area have been negligible. To the extent that
groundnuts are exported from the north, they are more likely to be sold
unofficially over the border at prices considerably more attractive than
those offered by the official marketing organization.
5.04      Because Karonga is deficit in maize, incremental maize production
would replace imports from the central region. The Karonga farmgate value is
therefore the border price plus transport costs from the border to Karonga.
For Chitipa, which is self-sufficient in maize, incremental maize production
would be consumed in Karonga, and its farmgate value was calculated as being
equal to Karonga-s farmgate value less transport costs from Chitipa to Karonga. 1/
Marketing
5.05       Informal channels have been the major source of foodcrop marketing
in the region, although ADMARC is responsible for buying any surplus produce
offered by farmers. To this end, ADMARC maintains a network of storage
depots/markets and "bush" markets throughout the ADD. In 1978/79, ADMARC-s
purchases from the area were as follows: paddy, 7,625t; maize; 1,630t;
groundnuts, 9t. These amounts represent roughly 20% of paddy production, 7%
of maize and about 2% of groundnuts. As noted above, the maize purchased by
ADMARC in one area would be used to feed deficit areas (in this case, from
Chitipa to Karonga), while rice and groundnuts are graded and sold either else-
where in Malawi or are exported. Groundnuts are used in both confectionary
rade (Chalimbana and Malimba varieties) and oil extraction (Manipintar
and Malimba varieties).
Prices
5.06      Each year, before the start of the growing season, ADMARC recommends
and the Government determines guaranteed minimum prices for all crops to
be purchased. Prices are fixed country-wide so as to provide a reasonable
return to the farmer and to permit ADMARC to earn profits to be invested in
national development programs.
1/  (a)  As the country as a whole sometimes exports surplus maize in good
years but often imports it in bad ones, the value of this incremental
production at the border would be based on a weighted average of
import and export parity prices - see Table T-8(c),
(b)  Present maize production for Karonga district is estimated at about
2600 tonnes while the estimated requirement based on population,
is about 11,300 tonnes.



- 30 -
5.07      A number of factors are relevant in assessing whether the prices
provide a reasonable return to farmers.  Historically, producer prices have
increased gradually and generally kept pace with increases in the cosi: of
living (see Index of Prices below). At the same time it is relevant !lo
compare producer prices to export parity prices for those crops expor:ed.
The results of comparing official purchase prices to export parity pr.1ces vary
by crop and are affected by the high cost of transporting crops withir. the
country. 1/   For the Karonga-Chitipa area, iso.Lated and costly to rei:cq, the
export parity prices of rice and maize are considerably less than the oEficia]
producer price, although for groundnuts ADMARC-s price is still much lower
than thie export parity (in spite of the high transport costs). Thus, rice
growers 2/ are subsidized by ADMARC and groundnut growers, to the extent that
they sell to ADMARC, are taxed.  Finally, in examining retur:ns to farme.rs, it
is also important to recognize that local market prices in Karonga and Chitipa
are often higher for foodcrops than the official prices. The prices used here
in calculating financial returns to farmers (paras. 6.02) are the offi.c.al
ADMARC prices and the estimated returns are therefore conservative. In
general, the best returns both by hectarage and manday, are lo rice farnlers;
in Chitipa, maize growers have the highest return both to their land aacl their
labor. Tobacco growers under the Pilot Scheme to be established would,
however, realize even higher returns to their land (paras 6.01-6.05).
Index of Nominal Producer Pricess for Selected Crops
(Base Year: 1970)
1970    1972      1974    1976      1978    1980
Rice
Grade I 1/           100      100       121     136       136      136
Maize                   100     100       138      180      180      218
Groundnuts 2/           100     132       180      180      200      240
Beans 3/               100      133       167      183      183      220
Cotton
Grade A              100      109       145     164       191      191
Grade B                 100     113       138      163      200      200
Grade C                100      125       175      225      300      300
Low Income CPI  4/    100       112       136      164      185      n.a.
1/   Grades II and III follow this index closely.
2/   Manipintar and Malimba (unshelled).  Shelled index is similar.
3/   White haricot.
4/   For Blantyre: Retail Price Index.
1/   Under the SAL agreement GOM has agreed to implement a system of
determining producer prices for the important smallholder crops
(maize, tobacco, cotton, groundnuts) that would take into account
economic border prices.
1/   And maize growers when maize is exported.



- 31 -
B. Cotton
Production
5.08      Karonga's smallholder farmers produce a modest amount of cotton,
between 400-600 t, or 1-2% of total production in Malawi. Under the Project,
incremental production of about 50 t per year is expected as a result of
expanded acreage (Table T-3(d)). No increase in yields is expected, mainly
because low producer prices provide insufficient incentive for farmers to
improve pest control (para 5.10). If prices increase significantly, however,
this may change husbandry practices; the increased yield would not, however,
be attributable only to the project.
Marketing
5.09      Practically all cotton is bought by ADMARC which then gins it
through an associate company. Cotton is graded into three categories; Grade
A, the cleanest, has historically been exported. Recently, however, the
volume of cotton purchased has stagnated and with rising demand by the local
textile manufacturer, Malawi-s exports have declined from 8.3 tons in 1970 to
1.4 tons in 1979, and Malawi actually imported a small quantity of processed
cotton in 1979.
Prices
5.10      As for fooderops, the producer price of cotton is determined by
Government with ADMARC's recommendation. While the cotton price has kept
pace with the general price rise (para 5.07), it has been lower than the
export parity price and ADMARC has consistently realized a profit on its
cotton account. The producer price of grade A cotton, which is the only
grade exported, has been about 50-65% of the equivalent export-parity price
for the past five years. The return to land for cotton is larger than the
return to land for maize or groundnuts at official prices, but cotton's return
to labor is about equal to maize at official prices, and less than either
maize or groundnuts if they are sold at local market prices. What interest
exists in growing cotton in Karonga is probably due to the certainty of cash
sales at fixed prices (local market prices for maize and groundnuts have large
seasonal fluctuations). Projections for the 1980s are that the world prices
for cotton will gradually improve in real terms over their 1978-80 levels.
C. Tobacco
5.11      Tobacco plays a critical role in Malawi's economy:  it is a major
foreign exchange earner, accounting for an increasing proportion of export
crop earnings; in recent years it has been responsible for 55-60% of the
earnings; it provides the major source of cash income to roughly 20% of
Malawi's farm families either as smallholders on their own plots or as labor
on estates. Tobacco production is divided among dark fire-cured (35%), air or
sun-cured (5-6%), and oriental tobacco, grown exclusively by smallholders on
customary land, and Virginia flue-cured (38-40%) and burley air-cured tobacco



- 32 -
(18%), grown by estates. In addition, about 900 smallholders grow flue-'clred
tobacco under the Kasungu Flue-Cured Tobacco Authority. Until recently,
Government policy has restricted burley tobacco to estates, but under NliD? I
Governrnen.t agreed to introduce smallholder burley tobacco on a pilot basi3 and
this Project (NRDP III) would implement that agreement on a 50 ha area -.n
Chitipa (paras 3.05 and 4.08). Total annual production from t'he pilot 1:rogram
would reach about 40 t by Project year 4 and would represent a negligible
amount (less than 1%) of total burley production in Malawi, although the
potential production of burley tobacco from the Chitipa District may be muich
greater.
Marketing and Prices
5.12      ADMARC has been responsible for marketing the dark fire, sun
and air-cured tobacco from smallholders, which it then sells on open aucti.ons
at Limbe and Lilongwe.  ADMARC pays tobacco growers on a two-t-Ler systeml;
the first payment is at an announced producer price and the second payme at:
depends on the amount realized on the auction floor. The pilot: burley
tobacco scheme under the Project would be responsible for marketing its
output (para 4.08) but the payment arrangements (by a fixed charge by weiglht
or acreage, or a proportion of the return deduction from auction proceeds,
etc.) for scheme members would be decided by the Scheme Committ:ee.
5.13      Producer prices for smallholder to'bacco have been less than one-
fifth of the auction price, and ADMARC has realized substantial. profits on
its tobacco accounts. This relatively low producer price 1/ ha.s been usEid in
conjunction with quotas to control the production of fire, sun and air-cAred
tobaccos. Malawi's share of the world market for those tobaccos is suffi::iently
high, at about 20%, that overproduction can have a disastrous effect on [:he
prices; it has in the past. This would not be a problem for the Burley
tobacco to be grown under the Project, where Malawi-s contribution to th,:
world market is only about 1-2% and the Burley tobacco from the Project
would be an even smaller portion of the country-s total Burley productiolv..
The producer price would be set by the Scheme management and the final p<.ynent
would ref]iect the auction price after deductions were made for transport a.d
handling costs to the auction floor.
5.14      World market prices for tobacco are projected by the World Banl:
for flue-cured only and these are expected to increase in real terms in
the 1980s over the relatively low levels of 1978-80; ADMARC projects that: :he
prices of fire, sun, and air-cured and oriental tobaccos will also increase in
real terms in the 1980s. It can be expected that because of re,ent increased
consumer preference for lighter tobacco, the market for burley *obacco wou:d
be particularly promising and world market prices should therefore also
increase in the 1980s.  The Government of Malawi has agreed to carry out a
study of the tobacco sector with a view to examining the world market
prospects, implications for Malawi's tobacco production and Malawi-s poteLt.ial
for responding to future market prospects.
1/   Even compared to maize and groundnuts, where the producer prices havt
been 25-40% of export prices.



- 33 -
D. Livestock
Production
5.15      The Project would modestly increase livestock production through
rehabilitated and new dipping facilities and improved disease control.
Livestock mortality rates would decrease and calving rates would increase in
the areas of the new and rehabilitated dips. In addition, some impact on
livestock health and size is expected from livestock owners- adoption of
improved cattle feeding as well as from the grazing schemes, although no
attempt has been made to quantify this impact. The increased livestock
population would result in greater meat production both for on-farm consump-
tion and marketed surplus and, combined with continued emphasis on oxen
training, would also provide a larger supply of oxen for cultivation in the
Karonga and Chitipa Districts.  Annual incremental output of beef due to the
Project would be about 450 t by year 5; current production levels are (very
roughly) 1,400-1,600 t/year, and part of this incremental production would be
for export out of the region to the south.
Livestock Marketing and Price
5.16      Livestock are marketed at informally for local consumption, at
public auctions, where the Cold Storage Company (CSC) will buy the residual
cattle at a fixed guaranteed minimum price for subsequent transport out of
the Region, and, in small numbers, are trekked by livestock owners south
to Mzuzu or Lilongwe for sale at the urban centers. A record of sales at the
public auction markets in the Karonga-Chitipa ADD is as follows:
Sales at Government Auction Markets
(No. of Head of Cattle)
1973      1975       1977       1979       1980 1/
Karonga               30          6         17        31          400
Chitipa              837        630       762       1,159       1,300
Total           907       636        779       1,190       1,700
1/   First eight months of 1980 only.
These numbers probably represent roughly 25% of total offtake for Chitipa and
only 1% for Karonga.
5.17      Official minimum prices are set by Government and in an effort
to increase the supply of meat to the urban areas the prices were increased
by about 80% in April 1980 (see below). Since then, sales of cattle in



- 34 -
the Northern Region as well as elsewhere in the country are reported to
have increased substantially, but the increased price has created financial
problems for CSC, who must sell their beef to butchers who in turn are con-
strained by fixed retail meat prices. The sudden increase in floor p:^ices ma:9
also have disrupted the local markets and, rather than increasing off I:ake
rates, may have sh:ifted the supply from local markets to the CSC.  ThX issues
of increasing the supply of meat products and livestock pricing 1/ ari being
examined by the Malawi Government, with assistance from the World Banl., under
the Structural Adjtustment Loan.
Official Floor Prices for Cattle
(MK /kg liveweight)
Grade                 1974            1975-1979           1980
Standard                .20              .24                .44
Commercial              .13              .18                .33
Inferior                .07              .13                .26
Feeder                  .19              .29            .4O-.44
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Farmer Benefits
6.01      About 1,200 farmers in Karonga, mainly those growing rice and
maize and some cotton, and about 2,000 farmers in Chitipa, mainly those
growing maize, beans and groundnuts, would be affected by Phase III crcp
activities. This represents roughly 7%' of Karonga farming families and ]6%
of Chitipa farming families.
6.02      Returns to farmers were calculated on typical farm models for
rice and maize farmers in Karonga and maize farmers in Chitipa.. These aodels
are based on information gathered during preparation and appraisal and .,re to
be taken as orders of magnitude (Tables T-4 (a) through Table T-4 (f)).
Typical farm sizes remain the same in Without and With-Project situatio)-s.
Through adoption of improved crop husbandry and improved varieties, farlmt
families would increase their incomes as follows:
I/   These issues also affect tobacco estates, which use fallow land fox
grazing cattle; meat (and milk) pricing therefore has an :Lmportant ffect
on the profitability of the estate sector.



- 35 -
Net Revenues per Farming Family 1/
Without          With
Project         Project        Increment
-MK-
Karonga:  Typical Rice Farmer          191              239             48
Typical Maize Farmer        105              111              6
Chitipa:  Typical Maize Farmer         178              228             50
Tobacco (pilot) farmer 2/  178               464            286
1/   At official prices.
2/   Comparison shows returns to typical maize farmer in Without Project
situation who then becomes a tobacco farmer; returns with Project show
only revenue from tobacco and exclude other crops grown in the scheme.
On the basis of the budgets, it is clear that returns to improved rice in
Karonga and to hybrid maize in Chitipa are the most attractive. The returns
to maize in Karonga, both on a per manday and per hectare basis, are low
compared to those for Chitipa, due mainly to the fact that Karonga is a
marginal area for maize production. The benefit from adapting an improved
package is also low. Nevertheless, local maize in Karonga is grown primarily
as a subsistence crop, while both composite maize and cotton, in spite of
their relatively low returns, are grown in the dryland crops area of Karonga
(southern Karonga) because they are important sources of cash income. Some
farmers are therefore likely to switch from local maize and cassava to the
composite maize and cotton for this reason. In those cases where farmers
switch from cassava to composite maize, returns per manday and per hectare
would show a greater increase than indicated here; for farmers who sell their
maize on the local market the increased return would also be greater.
6.03      The hectare and manday returns to the tobacco farmers participating
in the pilot scheme exceed those for other crops, and are conservatively
estimated. On other Burley schemes, yields of 1,000 kg/ha or more are ob-
tained, whereas here they are estimated at 800 kg/ha. In addition, transport
costs to be charged to the farmers were estimated using maximum rates charged
for renting public sector vehicles. It is therefore possible that returns to
tobacco farmers will be much greater than shown here.
6.04      The returns per manday for each crop vary considerably from MKO.24
for groundnuts in Karonga to MK 1.36 for tobacco in Chitipa. They compare
to an estimated average opportunity cost of labor of MKO.25 per manday,
although this opportunity cost varies considerably from one area to another
within the Karonga-Chitipa districts. In general, however, man-day returns
for those crops to be encouraged under the Project are considerably higher
than this opportunity cost.
6.05      Roughly 30% of the farming population of Karonga and Chitipa (or
about 9,500 families) own cattle. Of these, about 40% would be affected by
new and improved dipping facilities and extension services provided under



- 36 -
P'hase IIl I/ and some small number may also participate in pilot effort:s to
establish fodder and stall feeding.  Better animal health would permit a
higher offtake for beef and increased milk production. By Project year 4,
livestock owners with 10 head of cattle would realize an incremental ilLcome,
if the cattle were sold at Government auctions at official minimum prices, of
about MK 44 (from MK 143 Without-Project to MK 187 With-Project), and i:eturns
per manday would inicrease from MK 1.20 to MK 1.45 (Table T-4(g)). These
figures exclude any additional costs and incomes from using oxen for haulage
and land preparation.  If benefits from stronger, healthier work oxen are
included, incremental returns would be even greater.
B.  Recurrent Cost Implications of Phase IIC
6,06      By the end of Phase III, incremental annual recurrent costs o: the
components included here would be about MK 525,000 (US$673,000 - in cur:^ent
terms) excluding vehicle replacement. Vehicle replacement, spread over three
years, would involve an additional MK 179,000 per year. Thus the costs for
NRDP III at the end of the disbursement period would be about MK 704,000
(US$903,000) per year. 2/  These costs would be partially offset by revenues
from the forestry plantation in Chitipa (roughly MK 420,000 over a four year
period in every eight year coppice rotation), and, to a smaller extent, by
revenues from forest reserves selling licenses to graze cattle and to cut
wood, by surplus accumulating in the credit fund, and by ADMARC profits oni
incremental production (Table T-7). 3/ By the end of Phase III the govern-
ment should be able, with assistance from Structural Adjustmen:t funds, to
support the recurrent costs of both Phase II and Phase III.  The larger
questions of cost recovery and financial implications of maintenance costs
for the entire national rural development program are being discussed wiLtl
Government, with a view to possible redesign of the NRDP program. SubseqLuent
phases of NRDP should benefit from these discussions.
C. Economic Analysis
6.07      The main objectives of Phase III are to integrate cropping and
livestock activities at the training and extension levels and to expand !:hE
1/   Assumling that about 50% of the cattle population would be covered anid
of these, only 75% would actually benefit from the services.
2/   This excludes the Surveys and Statistic Units, which will probably le
financed under another project when NRDP III is fully disbursed.  It
also assumes that the same level and, intensity of staffing would be
maintained after 1984/85.
3/   ADMARC profits would be mainly on cotton, which has a modest incremelital
produc.tion under Phase III. Profits would probably total about MK 5,700
(US$7,250) per year.



- 37 -
coverage of farmers involved in improved cropping and husbandry practices.
In addition forestry activities would improve conservation and provide forest
products in the area. Economic impact is expected from improved infrastruc-
ture, increased crop, livestock and forestry production, and better access to
social services. The benefits from increased production are quantifable.
6.08      Economic analysis has been done for Phase III incremental investment
and benefits as well as for all three Phases together. For the analysis
on Phase III, certain assumptions were made on the costs and benefits from
Phases I and II that serve as the baseline for the "Without Project" - i.e.,
"Without Phase III" situation (para 6.10).
Nature of Quantifiable Benefits
6.09      The following quantifiable benefits would be realized as a result
of the Project:
(a) Incremental crop production would result from expanded
extension, training, credit and marketing facilities provided
under Phase III. The increment would derive from increased
yields and, to a smaller extent, from increased acreage.
The increased cotton and rice production would be exported
from Malawi and would mean increased foreign exchange
earnings. Incremental maize from both Chitipa and Karonga
would be consumed in the area and would replace imports
from the Central Region. Maize has been imported in recent
years, although in good years in the past Malawi has exported
maize. The value of the incremental maize production from
Karonga-Chitipa would therefore be based on a weighted
average parity price representing both foreign exchange
earnings and savings. Incremental groundnut production from
Karonga and Chitipa would be either consumed locally
or exported unofficially over the border. While groundnuts
are exported from Malawi by ADMARC, its groundnut purchases
from the area in recent years have been negligible. The
value of incremental groundnut production is estimated
conservatively at the local market price. 1/ The beans
produced would also be for domestic consumption and are
valued accordingly.
(b) Livestock activity would increase the supply of meat and,
to a small extent, milk. Both would increase domestic
consumption and are valued at local prices as imports are
negligible For beef, information on local unofficial prices was
not available, but is probably somewhat above the statutory
minimum floor prices prevailing before the recent (April 1980)
increase, because until official prices were increased, official
1/   The prices in neighboring countries are often higher than local market
prices.



- 38 -
sales were a small proportiorn of total offtake.  After the
increase in official prices, sales at Government auctions rose
dramatically. The economic price was taken conservatively
as an average of the former floor prices, i.e. at MKC 400/t bEei.
Although roughly one third of what an economic import parity
price would be for imported beef, the value of imported beef is
not a relevant yardstick for the area-s production.
(c) Fuelwood and poles would be produced from the Chitipa
plantation; the fuelwood would substitute for other sources
of imported energy, such as coal or kerosene. But since
coal and kerosene would cost four to five times the current
cost of an equivalent amount of wood, either substitute
would be well beyond the means of most of the consuming
families and would not be a realistic value Sor the fuel-
wood. An average stumpage price of MK 9.4/m (1981 price)
to value the forestry output was, therefore, used; this
is the fee that would have to be charged by the Forestry
Department to recover at 10% t he full costs of the planta-
tions it is; establishing under the Wood Energy Projezt
(Cr. 992-MAI). 1/  If 15% of the cutput is consumed as           3
poles and 85% as fuelwqod, this implies a price of XK 21.8/m t
for poles and MK 7.2/ma (cSmpared to current fees of MK 6.6/m
for poleS and MK 1.4-3.3/m /fuelwood). This stumpage fee of
M4K 9.4/m should be considered a floor value for the output,
as the value of an equivalent amount of coal, kerosene,
or cow dung would be about three times as high; the resulting
rate of return should be considered a minimum.
Magnitude of Benefits
6.10      The assumptions on the improvement in crop production that wou:..d
occur under Phase III involved establishing a baseline "Without Project"
level of production that incorporates the benefits of Phases I and II, wl,ich
are assumed to continle as a result of maintaining the staff, vehicles an.d
infrastructure established during these earlier Phases. 2/ The assumptic:ns
are as follows:
1/   Many efforts have been made to value the fuelwood in terms of fresh cow
dung or crop residues that would have tc be burned for an equivalent
amount of energy, but neither of the:se options are realistic substitul:es
for Chitipa town residents.
2/   As noted above, an analysis was also done including both costs and
benefits from Phases I and II. Information on Phase II is not yet avail
able, but using information from supervision reports, the preparatic;
report and the Ministry of Agriculture, rough figures were used for ?Lase
II.  The overall rate of return for the three phases combined was 17 .



- 39 -
(a) Rice yields would increase in Karonga from farmers switching
to Faya rice from local rice; the area cultivated with rice is
expected to increase in any case, without Phase III, because
of its attractiveness, so that the impact from Phase III would
be from the difference in yields between the faya and local
varieties (see Table T-3(a));
(b) Maize yields and acreage would increase in both Karonga and
Chitipa as a result of Phase III activities: farmers would
switch into maize from cassava and some adopting farmers
would grow the higher-yielding composite or hybrid varieties
(Tables T-3(b) and T-3(c));
(c) Incremental cotton production would result from modest (10%)
increase in acreage, with no increase expected in yields;
Tables T-3(d);
(d) Incremental groundnuts and beans production in Chitipa would
be from increased yields of 25% (in each case) and increased
acreages of 65% for groundnuts and 20% for beans (Tables T-3(e)).
(e) Livestock production would increase from improved health for
the cattle population covered by the rehabilitated and new dips;
the increase would come from improved technical coefficients
(mortality, calving percentages, offtake and average liveweights);
milk production would also increase from increased milk yields per
lactation.
Assumptions on Livestock Coefficients
Without Project        With Project
Herd growth (per annum)                  0.5%                   2.5%
Calving percentage                      60.0%                  65.0%
Cold dressed weight (kg/hd)            125.0                  135.0
Lactation per head
(liters per annum)                185.0                 200.0
(f) For fuelwood a mean annual increment of 15 m /ha during the
first tws rotations, 12 m /ha during the second coppice rotation,
and 10 m /ha during the third coppice rotation has been assumed.
The Chitipa plantation would theSefore yield, starting the eighth
year after planting, about 135 m /ha for the first two rotations,
110 m/ /ha in the Shird coppice rotation starting 24 years after
planting, and 90 m /ha for the last coppice rotation.



- 40 
Costs
6n11      The cost of the Phase III agricultural component that have bec-n
included in the economic analysis are incremental extension, credit, marketing,
and land husbandry, and 85% of the trainiing costs. 1/ A portion (60%) cf the
incremental administrative costs (evaluation and planning) have been allo:ated
to these activities and included in the economic analysis. The opporturli;y
cost of the increased acreage is the value of cassava that would be foregone.
For livestock, the economic analysis includes the costs of disease contro: and
50% of the livestock extension; the other half of the extension service would
cover areas not complemented by Phase III facilities and the extension service
would also be demonstrating fodder grass, which is essentially of a pilct
nature. 15% of the administrative costs were allocated for the livestock
component. For forestry, 4% of the administrative costs were included.
General Assumptions
6.12      Incremental Phase III costs and benefits are in Tables T-8(a) and
T-8(h). The following general assumptions were made in their calculation:
(a) All prices are in constant June 1981 prices, except for
those of civil works, which are increased in 1981 terms over
the Project period to take account of their rising real
costs. 2/
(b) All costs include physical contingencies, where appropriate,
and are net of identifiable taxes.
(c) The shadow price of foreign exchange is equal to the
nominal price as the official exchange rate is considered
to reflect its appropriate value.
(d) The shadow wages of unskilled labor and incremental on-farm
labor have been priced at one half the official minimum
wage, or at 25 t per man-day. Alternative employment
opportunities vary throughout the area, and this opportunity
cost is assumed as an average for the areas affected by
Phase III activities. 3/
1/   Some training is in health and nutrition, whose benefits are not qua,iti-
fied here, and in oxen-training and pilot-fodder programs for livestock,
and in tobacco growing which are also not quantified here.
2/   The exspected price increase of civil works is greater than expected
increases in the general price level.  The real cost of civil works  ias
been increased by the difference between the two.
3/   This opportunity cost is consistent with the most recent economic work
for the Karonga d:istrict, the Project Completion Report for KCRDP I,
done i:n 1978.



- 41 
Economic Rates of Return for Phase III
Economic Rate        Percentage of Total
of Return               Project Costs
Crops                          19%                     38%
Livestock                      13%                      11%
Forestry                        9%                       7%
Combined                       17%                     56%
Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
6.13      Decreases in benefits could come from unanticipated increases in
transport costs, which would lower the economic farmgate value of exported
crops like cotton and rice, or from poor weather, or crop and/or cattle
disease. As most of the benefits in this project derive from Chitipa's
incremental maize production, and to a lesser extent from Karonga's incre-
mental maize and from livetock products, increased transport costs would
not drastically affect the rate of return. If farmers' response was poor,
however, due to inadequate incentives or to insufficiently motivated
extension and training staff, benefits would be substantially affected.
For the forestry component, termite damage might affect yields. The
results of sensitivity analysis and the switching values are as follows:
Changes in Assumptions                    Economic Rate of Return
Benefits down by 20%                                   9%
Benefits lagged by 1 year                             13%
Costs up by 20%                                       10%
Costs up by 10% and benefits down by 10%              10%
6.14      In order for the economic rate of return to fall below 10%, or
for the net present value to be negative at a 10% discount rate, benefits
would have to decrease by about 18% or costs to increase by 21%. It is
unlikely that costs would escalate by this amount; the risk is greater
that benefits might be more than 18% lower than expected because of a
disappointing farmer uptake. But both Karonga and Chitipa farmers have
been active project participants when adequate incentives existed, and the
uptake rates assumed for this Project are on the conservative side.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) the terms of reference, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the internationally recruited financial controller,
the short-term consultants and the Public Health Officer
would be satisfactory to IDA (paragraphs 3.20, 4.07, and 4.17);
(b) the internationally recruited financial controller and the
health officer would be in post no later than April 30, 1982
and June 30, 1982 respectively (para 3.20, 4.17);



- 42 -
(c) in order to maintain ongoinig Project activities GOM would alllocate
to MOA an additional amount of about MK 1.a million in fiscaL
year 1981/82; and that this level would be maintained in
real terms until the Project is completed (para. 3.24);
(d)  that a financing arrangement for the marketing component sa'isfactory
to IDA, would be formalized between the Government: and ADMARC no
later than December 31, 1.981 (paragraph 3.25);
(e)  if the farmers' credit fund were to require funds over and above
MK 300,000 (US$385,000) at its disposal, the Government would
provide up to an additional MK 125,000 (US$160,000) to the ::redit
fund at a time to be determined in consultation with IDA (p~.Lragraph
3.26) and 4.12);
(f)  the staffE training program and the plans for preventive hea1tl
services and primary health care would be submitted to IDA i.or
comments by June 30, 1982 and December 31, 1982, respectivel;y
(paragraphs 4.07 and 4.16);
(g)  a Senior Technical Assistant whose experience and qualifications
are satisfactory to IDA, -would be employed at the Pilot-Burley
Scheme not later than March 31, 1982 (paragraph 4.08);
(h)  appropriate written approval would be obtained for the use of land
for the fuelwood plantation and forest reserves nol: later than
September 30, 1982 (paragraphs 4.14);
(i)  GOM would draw up a plan for siting of boreholes after full (cn-
sultation between Project management, the Department of Lands,
Valuation and Water and the District Development Committee aad
would submit the plan to IDA for comments not later than Jun. 30,
1982 (paragraph 4.15);
(j)  Project accounts would continue to be audited by Government
auditors or independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that
such audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six mcnths
of the end of each financial year (paragraph 4.20);
(k)  reporting procedures as outlined would be followed; no later than
six months after the credit closing date, Government would prepare
and submit to IDA a Project Completion Report (paragraph 4.22).
7.02      It is recommended that subject to the above assuranees being met,
the proposed Project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$7.3 million on standard terms to the Government of Malawi.



43
Chart C-1
MALAVVI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1981                       1982                        1983                        1984                        1985
1      T   2     3  4         1  1  2      3    4       1     2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1            2  3    4
CIVIL VVORKS CONSTRUCTION
-houslng                                           S _-    __                                   _     _       
Matern-ty and Health                                 I 
Sub-Cen,ers _
--  D,ps                                                  
VEHICLE PROCUREMENT                                           g -  - S
IN  SERVICE TRAINING                                   -      -                           -             -      -             -      -      -             -      -
PILOT TOBACCO SCHEME                            ,                                         -             - _ _
AREA-SPECIFIC TRIALS| ___.......................   ..  ........ _
AORESPC CTRIALS                                                                    -             -      -      - _                                -      -      mI
Pla:tat,,                                              :  i                  -      -                 -             -      -                    -      -      - 
~~~~m   7 I I    I       I                      _          l                          =I                       . I
* _ * Pla.-,,g/Tee,der,ng/Acqu,s,rmon of Land
Connstruct ionlflelery/llrplementation
Fmnancial Year April 1 to March 31
March 1981                                                                                                                                                World Bank -22667



44
Chart C-
MA LAINI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III PROJECT
Project Organizatiorn
Program Marager
Assistant
Program, Manager
1~~~~~~~~l 0[X              I
3 Credit        ye Veeiary]
World8ank 21578



4,
Chart C-3
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III PROJECT
Organization of Forestry Staff
Program
Manager
ADDV//                              RFO/         l
|    Senior Forester    |    |       Mzuzu S
Chitp                                                                            Karonga
|   orester     l                                                                    orester] 
Forest                Forest                Forest                Soreaniores                                     Forest1
Ranger                Ranger                Ranger                                          Rang Forer             Ranger
Plantation
Forest                Forest                Forest                                          Forest
Guards                Guards                Guards                                          Guards
Karonga
Escarpment
1/ Under Wood Energy Division, already in post.
World Bank-22579



46
6  Ta:le_ 1
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Phasing of Project Costs
(MK '000)
PY1              :PY2              PY3               PY4                  TOTAL
Agricultural Extension                    410.1             328.4             52.9              53.0                844.4
Training                                  252.9             173.0             42.8              42.8                511.5
Pilot Burley Tobacco                       63.1              59.5               7.1              6.9                 136.6
Research                                  155.6             101.8             37.3              37.3                332 0
Livestock                                 239.8             216.8             69.1              63.7                589 4
Credit                                    108.5              84.7             25.4              26.7                245..3
Marketing                                  55.3              28.7              24.4             45.2                153.6
Land Husbandry                             58.0               8.1               8.1              8.1                  82.3
Forestry                                    4.5              27.8            234.4              82.4                349.1
Water Facilities                           25.0              25.0              60.0             40.0                150.(
Health                                    107.8             214.6             61.1              61.1                444.6
Project Administration                    201.3             105.5             84.1              22.5                413.4
CEU                                        20.9               9.0               4.9              4.0                  38.8
Surveys and Statistics Unit               168.0             308.2            296.5             227.0                999.7
Total Base Cost                     2,708.9           2,245.2          1,283.7             720.7              6,958.5  1/
Contingencies                         325.1             558.8             412.8            306.3              1,603.)
Total Costs                         3,034.0           2,804.0          1,696.5           1,027.0              8,561. 6   1/'
1/Total differs slightly  from  text summary table due to rounding.
June 1981



47
Table T-l(a)
MALAWI
NATIONL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRORAM (NRDP) PIHASE III PROJECT
Extension(Karonge)
(MK)
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4
Unit Cosr    No       Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost       No.    Cust         Total                         FE Cost
Capital Costs
Civil Works
Housing-EL2                          9,500       16 152,000        17 161,500       ---                                313,500             45          141,075
Vehicles & Equipment
4 WD, LWB pickup 1,                 14,500         2  29,000      ---      ---      ---      ---     ---      ---       29,000             90           26,100
Motorcycles 1/                         800        8   6,400                    ---                    ---     ---        6,400             90            5,760
Typewriters                            500         1     500      ---      -                 ---                            500            90              450
lub-total                                      35,900                                                             35,900                          32,310
Total Capital Costs                                    167,900          161,500       ---               ---      ---     349,400                         173,385
Operating Costs
Salaries & Wages
Area Supervisors (TO) 2/               350        2      700        2      700        2      700        2     700        2,800             --
Asst. Area Supervisors (STA) 2/        950        1      950        1      950        1      950        1     910        3,800
Field Assistants (TA) 2/               260       32   8,320        32   8,320        32   8,320       32   8,320        33,280             __
Clerk/Typist                           620        1      620        1      620        1     620         1     620        2,480             __
Driver                                 840        1      840        1      840        1     840         1     840        3.360             --               ---
Slb-total                                      11,430            11,430            11,430           11,430       45,720
Other Opcratioo Costs
4 WI), LWI picko,p                   6,000        1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000       24,000             90           21,600
Motorcycles                            900         3   2,700        3   2,700         3   2,700         3   2,700       10,800             90            9,720
Demonstration trials                    50       50   2,500        50   2,500        50   2,500       50   2,500        10,000             45            4,500
Building oaint. . 2o7.                                   ---            7.        S38                       7,838       23,514             45           10,581
Slb-total                                      1                 19,03            19,3              19,038       68,314                          46,401
Total Operating Costs                                   22,630           30,4t9            30,468            30,468      114,034                          46,401
Total Cost - Extension (Karonga)                         210,530           191,968           30,468            30,468      463,434             47          219,786
1! One pickup and 5 -otorcycles are repla-ements; one pickup and 3 motorcycles are new, this is reflected in operating costs.
2/ All staff are n' holding a lower position; these will be upgraded, therefore incremsental unit cost is only shown.
February 1981



48
Table T-l(6)
MALAWI                                          Tb~TIb
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Extension (Chitipa)
(M1)
Year I            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4
Unit Cost    No.    Cost         No.   CGnt        No      Cost      No.    Cost         Total            PE,           FE Cost
Capital Costs
Civil Works
Housing-EI{O                         9,500       12  114,000        12 114,000                ---      ---      ---      228,'00             45           L02,600
Vehicles & Esuipoent
4 WD, LWB pickup I/                  14,500         1  14,500       ---      ---           ---          ---      ---       14,500             90            13,050
4 WD, cinama van                     25,000         1  25,000       ---      ---               ---      ---      ---       25,000              90           22,500
4 WD, 10-seater                      17,500         1  17,500       ---      -----                               ---       17,500             90            15,750
Motorcycles 1/                          800         6   4,800       ---      ---                                 ---        4,E00             90             4,320
Typewriters                             500         1      500      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---           500            90               450
Calculator                              500         1      500      ---      ---      --                 -       ---           500            90               410
Projector & associated equipnent  3,503             1   3,500      ---      ---       ---      -         --      ---        3,500             90             3,150
Duplicating machine                   2,50D         1   2.500                         ---      ---       ... --    -        2,500             90             2.250
Sub-total                                 68,800                                                    ---        68,800                          61,920
Total Capital Costs                                     182,800            114,000                                          296,800                          164,520
Opcratini Costs
Salaries & Wages
Tenhnical Assistant (rA) 2/             260         2      520        2      520        2      520        2      520        2,030             --
Clerk/Typist                            620         1     620         1      620        1      620        1      620        2,430             --
Driver                                  840         2   1,680         2   1.680         2   1,680         2   16680            7              ---
Sub-total                                   2,820             2,820             2,820             2,820        11,290             --
Other Operating Costs
Vehicles, 4WD,                        6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,002        24,000             90           231600
Cinema van                            6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000        24,000             90            21,600
Films, tapes, at.                       300               300                300               300               300        1,200             90             1,080
Demonstration trials                     50       33   1,650         33   1,650        33   1,650        33   1,650         6,600             45             2,970
Building maint., 21                                       ---             5,700              5,700             5,700       17.1C0             45            7,695
Sub-total                                  13,950            19,650            19,650            19,650        72,900                          54,945
Tetal Operatieg Costs                                    16,770            22,470            22,470             22,470       84,180                           54,945
total Cost - Extension (Chitipa)                          199,570           136_ 470           22_470            22,470       380.980             58           219_465
>1 These are replacement vehinles; all other vehinles are new, this is reflected in operating costs.
3! At present there are 2 DAo; these will be upgraded to TAs, therefore incremental unit cost is only shown.
Ftbruary 1981



49
Table T-{l(c
MALAWI
NATIONAL RUTAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHIASE III PROJECT
Training
Year I            Year 2           Year 3             Year 4
Unit Cost      No.    Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost         Total          E,-7            FE Cost
ssital Costs
Civil Works
Staff housiog-C16                    44,000      0.5  22,000       0.5  22,000                 ---      ---      ---       44,000           45             i9,800
-DH8                  22,000      2.0  44,000        2.0  44,000       ---      ---      ---      ---       88,000           45              39,600
-EL2                   9,500      0.5   4,750       0.5   4,750        ---      ---      ---      ---        9,500           45              4,275
-DH4                   9,500      1.0   9,500        1.0   9,500       ---      ---      ---      ---       19,000           45               8,550
Residential training teeter 1'   70,000          0.5  35.000       0.5  35,000       ---       ---      ---      ---        70,000          45              1500
Sob-total                                115,250           115,250                                           230,500                          103,725
Vehicles & Equipment
4 WD, LW3 pickup 2/                  14,500         2  29,000      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---       ---       29,000           90             26,100
Transport carrier 2/                 25,000         1  25,000      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---        25,000           90             22,500
Motorcycles 2/                          800         2   1,600      ---                ---      ---      ---      ---        1,600           90              1,440
Training center equipos?nt 90d           18,000                    ---      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---        18,000          45               8,100
Sub-total    r,it,re                      73,600                                                              73,600                           58,140
total Capital Costs                                     188,850           115,250                                          304,100                          161,865
-.tatig Costs
Salaries & Wages
Training Supervisors (STO)            4,030         1   4,030         1   4,030         1   4,030         1   4,030        16,120           ---
Home Economic Officer (TO)            2,120         1   2,120         1   2,120         1   2,120         1   2,120         8,480           --
Principals (TO)                       2,120        1   2,120          1   2,120        1   2,120          1   2,120        8,480           __
Typist/Clerk                            770         1     770         1     770         1     770         1     770         3,080           --
Drivers                                 840         2   1,680        2   1,680          2   1,680         2   1,680         6,720
Cooks                                   470         8   3,760        8   3,760          8   3,760         8   3,760        15,040           --
Laborers/Waiters                        180        4      720        4      720        4      720        4      720         2_880          --                 ---
Sub-total                                 15,200             15,200            15,200            15,200       60,800
0 'ner Operating Costs
Vehicles,-pickup                      6,000         1   6,000        1   6,000          1   6,000         1   6,000        24,000           90             21,600
-transport carrier          6,000        1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000        24,000           9O              21,600
-motorcycles                  900        2   1,800         2   1,800         2   1,800         2   1,800         7,200           90               6,480
Staff seminars                                         12,000               ---               ---               ---       12,000           --                 ---
In-service training(consultants)  7,500/mo    2  15,000              2  15,000                ---               ---       30,000           90              27,000
Training center (Lopr-nbe)                              8,000             8,000             8,000             8.000        32,000          45              14,400
Building maint., 2½). charge                             _                5,763             5,763             5.763       17.289           45              7_780
Sob-total                                 48,800            42,563            27,563            27,563       146,489                          98,860
Total Operating Costs                                    64,000            57,763            42,763            42,763      207,289                           98,860
le.Ll Cost - Training                                    252,850           173,013             42,763            42,763      511,389           50             260,725
To be located at Lopembe
noe pickup is a replacement; ether vehicles are new, this is reflected in operating costs.
.rcary 1981



50
MALAWI                                  Table T-l(d)
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Pilot Tobacco Scheme
MK
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4
Unit Cost      No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Coast        Total        FE, X             FE Co3t
Capital Costs
Civil Works
Housing-EH8                         12,000      0.5    6,000    0.5   6,000                  ---               ---       12,000          45               5,40)
-EH10                        9,500      0.5    4,750    0.5   4,750                  ---               ---        9,500           45              4,27-
Office                               7,650      0.5    3,825    0.5   3,825                  ---               ---        7,650           45              3,44)
Grading & input shed                75,600      0.5   37.800    0.5  37.800                  ---               ---       75.600           45             34,02)
Sulb-total                                  52,375           52,375                                          104,750                          47,13 '
Vehicles & Equipment
Motorcycle                              800     1         800              ---               ---               ---          800           90                 720'
Equipment for grad:ing shed          1,600      1       1,600              ---               ---               ---        1,600           90              1,44t
Office equipment                       800      1         800              ---               ---               ---          800           90                 720
Poles for curing barns                   14    51         720              -                 ---               ---          720
Sub-total                                    3,920                                                             3,920                           2,88(
Total Capital Costs                                      56,295           52,375                                          108,670                          50,01;
Operating Costs
Salaries & Wages
Senior Tech. Asst. (STA)             1,770      1       1,770    1       1,770        1   1,770         1   1,770         7,C80
Tech. Asst. (TA)                       820      1         820    1         820        1      820        1      820        3,280
Grading Asst.  1/                      211                ---    1         211        1      211               ---          422
Sub-total                                    2,590            2,801            2,801             2,590        10,782
Other Operating Costs
Motorcycle                              900     1         900    1         900        1      900        1      900        3,600           90              3,240
Demonstration (2 ha)                   800                800              ---               ---               ---          800          45                 360
Labor-feeder road (5 m) and land
clearing                                            640               36               36                36           748
Nursery security                                          250              250               250               250        1,000
Training visits                                         1,00              ---               ---               ---        1,O00           45                450
woodlot establishment                                     300              200               200               200          900           45                 405
Office supplies                                           300              300               300               300        1,270           45                540
Boilding maintenance, 2½7.                                ---            2,620             2,620             2,620        7,860           45              3,537
Sub-total                                    4,190            4,306             4,306             4,306       17,108                           8,532
Total Operating Costs                                     6,780            7,107             7,107             6,896       27,890                           8,532
Total Cost - Tobacco Pilot                                  63,075          59,482             7,107             6,896      136,560           43              58,549
1/ This includes a head grader, a checker, aid a grader for 108 days,
February 1981



51
MALAWI                                            Tab]e T-1(e)
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Research
Year I           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4
Colt Cost   iNo.    Cost        No.    Cost      N.      Cost      Loi.    Cost        Total           FE,X          FE Cost
Capital Costs
Civil Work
Ho-sirg-DH6                         22,000       0.5  11,000      0,5  11,000       ---      -__         _     ___       22,000            45             9,900
-DH811 3L3                  22,000       1.0  22,000       1.0  22,000      ---      ---      ---      ---       44,000            45            19,800
-EL2, EH10                   9,500       1.5  14,250       1,5  14,250      ---      ---      ---      ---       28,500            45            12,825
-Lab block                  18,500       2.5   9.250      0,5   9250        ---       --      ---      --- _     18500             45             8,325
Sub-total                                 56,500            56,500               ---               ---     113,000                          50,850
Vehicles & Equipment
4 WD, LWb picksp                    14,500         2  29,000      ---                                 ---               29,000             90           26,100
Tractor, '.Flb5                     18,000         1  1l,000      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---       18,000            90            16,200
MItotrcycles,                           Ho0        2   1,600       --               --                --       ---        1,600            90             1,440
Trailer                             2,000         1   2,000                - - -            -        --       ---        2,000            90             1,800
Office equipment                     1,000         1   1,000               --- ---       ---          ---       ---       1,000            50               500
Field a lab. eqip-ten                5,000         1   5,000      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---      ---        5,000            50             2,500
Sh,b-total                                56,600                                                            56,600                          h8,540
Total Capital Costs                                    113,100            56,500                                         169,600                           99,390
Operating Costs
Salaries & Wages
Sr. Technical Officet (STO)          4,030        1   4,030         1   4,030         1   4,030         1   4,030       16,120             -----
Technical Officers (TO)              2,120        2   1,240         2   4,240         2   4,240         2   4,240       16,960             --
Technical Assistants (TA)              820        2   1,640         2   1,640         2   1,640         2   1,640        6,560             __
Clerkl/Typist                          630         1     630        1      630        1     630         1     630        2,520             __
Dri-er                                 840        1      840        1      840        1      840        1     840         3,360            __
Laborer-                               180       10   1.800        10   1.800        10   1,800        10    .800        7                 --7--
Sob-total                                 13,180           13,180            13,180            13,180       52,720             --               ---
Other Oseratinc Costs
Vehicles_pickup                      6,000        2  12,000         2  12,000         2  12,000         2  12,000       48,000             90           43,200
-tractor I/                               1  12,000        1  12,000         1   4,000         1   4,000        32,000            90            28,800
-motorcycles                  900        2   1,800         2   1,800         2   1,800         2   1,900         7,200            90            6,hi0
-seed, fert.,insecticide  2,500           1   2,500        .1   2,500        1   2,500         1   2,500       10,000             90            9,000
-miscellaneous              1,000         1   1,000        I   1,000         I   1,000         1   1,000        4,000             50            2,000
-building  taist.,2/                            ---             2.825            2,825             2,825        8,475             45            3,819
Sub-total                                 29,300           32,125            24,125            24,125      109,675                          93,299
Total Operating Costs                                   42,4f;)           45,305           37,305            37,305      162,395                           93,299
Total Cost - Research                                    155,580 1013705                                       37 305       331, 995           58          192_689
1/ Tractor will be more heavily used doring the first two years in the pilot tobacco scheme than in the last two years for research.
February 1981



52-.
M[ALAWI                                         Table T-1(f)
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOMEN'T PROGRAM (XRDF) PHASE III PROJECT
Livestock: Disease Control
(MK)
Unit                                                                      FE           PE
No.    Costs    Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Year 4                 Total                        TtFtal
1. CAPITAL COSTS
(a) Construction
(i) Staff Housing:
Type F                   3        9,500    9,500   19,000        -         -             28,500            45        :12,325
Type E                   6       12,000   36,000   36,000        -        -              72,000            45          2__O
Sub-total Houses                                 45,500   55,000       -         -            100,500            45         45,225
(ii) Other Construction:
Dip Tanks V/             3       12,000   12,000   24,000        -         -             36,000            45         16,200
Dip Tank Improvements    43            540       -       8,100   8,100    7,020             23,220            45         1),449
Vaccination Crushes         5        1,000       -       2,000   3,000        -              5,000            45          2,:'50
and Holding Yards
Fences at dip tanks        16           50       -         200      400       200              800            90           ;,20
Sub-total Other                                  12,000   34,300  11,500    7,220              65,020            46         21, E19
(b) Vehicles
Motorcycles                     6         800    4,800        -        -         -               4,800           90          ! ,320
(c) Equipment
Disease Control              2 sets    1,000    2,000         -        -         -              2,000            80          :1,630
Lab Equipment                2 sets       400       -         800      -         -                 800           80            6iO
Dip Test Equipment           2 sets       350       -         750      -         -                 750           80            600
Portable Water Pump            2 units   1,750    1,750    1,750         -         -               3,500           80          2,80
Engine & Hoses
Misc. Equip. at Dip Tanks   46 sets           50    2,200       100      -         -               2,300           80          I ,8',o
Sub-total Equipment                               5,950    3,400       -         -              9,350            80          7 ,40
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                68,250   92,700  11,500    7,220             179,670            48         86.644
2. OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries TA                    3             820      820    2,460   2,460    2,460                8,200            -            -
Laborers                     6            180       360    1,080   1,080    1,080               3,600             _         _
Sub-total Staff                                   1,180    3,540   3,540    3,540              11,800
(b) Building Maintenance
Type F Staff House           3   2.5%    238        -         238      714       714            1,666            45            750
Type E Staff Eouse           6   2.5Z    300        -         900   1,800    1,800              4,500            45          2, 12'
New Dip Tanks                  3      °.0%    600     -         600   1,800    1,800               4,200           45          1, 39(
Vaccination Crushes            5   7.5%       75      -         -        150       375               525           45         __ ___
Sub-total                                           -       1,738   4,464    4,689             10,891            45          4,'t01
(c) Vehicles Motorcycles         6               900      -       5,400   5,400    5,400             16,200            90         14,.80
(d) Operation, Maintenance,
RepairsWater Pumps             2   20%      350       -         700      700       700            2,100            80          1,f 30
Dip Fluids                   3 + 43      250 + 130   -        6,340   6,340    6,340             19,020            80         15,,.L6
Drugs & Vaccines             3 + 43       75 + 35    -          480      358       430            1,268            80            E ;4
Lab Material, Reagents         2             260      -         520      520       520            1,560            80          1,2 48
Anthelmintics for field
Trials                       -             -        -       1,250   1,500    1,500              4,250            80          3,4)0
Maintenance of Forage   )
& Plantation Reserves)    16   5.0%  2 - 5          -         _        Itn       3                 40           v                8
Sub-total                                           -       9,290   9,454    9,538             28,238           79         22,4:6
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                               1,180   19,968  22,832   23,149              67,129           62         41,8:7
TOTAL COSTS:
OPERATING & CAPITAL                             69,430  112,668  34,332   30,369              246,799           52        128,5z.
1/ At Ngana (k), Chiwongo (k) and Chiwonido (c)
February 1981



MALAWI         53.
NATIONAL RURAL DVELQPRENT PROGRAM (NE) PHASE III PROJECT                              Table       )
Livestock: Extension
- SC -
Untiar 1_           Year 2           Year  3_LUYea                    Total      FE         FE
Unit. Cost      No.   Cost        No.   Cost        No.   Cost       No.   Cost        Cost     _          Cost
Capital Costs
Civil Works
Houses - Type D                22,000         1   22,000        -       -         -                -       -      22,000      45        9,900
Vehicles
Motorcycles - 100 cc              800         1       800       -       -         -      -         -       -         300      90          720
EquiPment
Weigh Scales                      100         3       300               300       -      -         -       -         600      90          540
Tools & Instruments               125         3       375       3       375      -       -         -       -         750      50          375
Ox-Training Equipment             700         3    2.100        3    2,100        -      -         -       -       _4,00      50        9.100
Sub-Total                                       2,77              2,775               _                 -      5,550 
Total Capital Costs                               25,575             2,775                                        28,350      48       13.635
Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages
Technical Officer               2,210         1    2,210        1    2,210       1    2,210        1    2,210    8,840         -          -
Vehicle Operatin
Motorcycles                       900         -       -         1       900      1       900       1       900    2,700       90        2,430
Other Operating
Building Maintenance              2 1/2%      -       -         -      550       -       550       -       550    1,650       45          743
Fertilizers                        50/ha    10/ha   500         -      500       -       500       -       500    2,000       20          400
Sub-Total                                         5oo             1.050             1.050            1,050    3,650         1,143
Total Operating Costs                               2,710                                                4.160   15,190       24        3,573
TOTAL COSTS
Livestock Extension                             28,285             6.935             4.160             4,160   43,540       40       17,208
February 1981



54
MALAWI
TablIe T-l(h)
NATTONAL RIURAL pEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  NERDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Livestock - Karoniga Center
(MK)
Year 1           'Year 2           Year 3           Year 4         Total      FE        FE
Unit Cost          Cost              Cost             Cost              Cost          Colt               Cos.-
Capital Costs
Civil Works
Staff Houses - Type E           12,000            12,000              -                 -                 -         12,0OCr     45      5,400
Type F           9,500             9,500            9,500               -                -         19,OC)       45      8,550
Traditional        200               400              _                 -                -             40i)    -          -
Sub-Total                                     21,900             9,500               -                -         31.40!      44      13L950
Other Construction
Electric. Supply & Wire          4,000             4,000               -                -                 -           4,030    90        3,600
Drug Store Extension                750              -                 750              -                 -             7]'0    45         338
Sileage Clamps                     450               450               450              -                 -             4,0    45          203
Sub-Total                                      4450              1,200                               -             5,0    73         4,141
Vehicles
Four-Wheel Drive  Pick-up       14,500            14,500               -                _                 _          14.500    90    .13.050
Equipment
Engine & Hammer Mill              2,750              -              2,750               -                 -           2,750    90        2,475
Tools-Metal & Wood Working         1,250           1.250               -                _                             1.250    80        iL.O29
Sub-Total                                       1,250            2,750-                                            4.0C1     87       h47j
Bulls                                160             800               -                _                               80)      -         -
Total Capital Costs                               42,900             3,45               -                            56,35!)   61      ]4 516
Operating Costs
Salaries & Wages
Farm Manager (STA)                   950             950               950              950               S50         3,80t      -         -
Technical Assistant                  820             820               820              820               820         3,28'      -         --
Mechanic                             800             800               800              800               800         3,20:      -         -
Casual Workers                       470             940               940              940               940         3,76i      -        -
Laborers                             180           1,080            1.080                              1,080          4,321:     -        -_
Sub-Total                                       4,590            4,590             4 590            4.590        18,36'
Other Operating
Building Maintenance                 2 112%          -                 548              785               785         2,11Ef    45         953
Machinery Maintenance                5 %             -                 285              483               483         1,25]    75          938
Materials                                            250               250              250               250         1,00C      -         -
Fertilizers & Seeds                                  200               200              200               200           80(    20          160
Feedstuffs                                           300               300              300               300         1.20(      -        _
Sub-Total                                         750            1.583             2,018            2,0L8         6,365    32        ,,O51
Total Operating Costs                              5.340            15,173            6,608             6.608        24,369      8       J05l
TOTAL KARONGA LIVESTOCK
IMPROVEMENT CENTER                              48,240            9,623             6,608            6,608        81,079    45       36J,667
February 1981



55
MALAW I
Tdble r-l¢()
NATIOOAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NJROS E  II725I SPOJECT
Livestock, Seru Center
(ME)
Year I           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4        Total        FY        FF.
unit Cost       No.   Cost       H10,   Cost        No.   Cost _No.   Cost             Ccat        %       Cost
LM~
Civil Works
Hooses - Type 1              12,000          0   12,000                         -                         -      12,000C      45       5,400
rype F              9,500          2   19,000        2   19,000       _       _         _              38,0010      45      10,100
Traditional            200         3       600       -S0
Sub-Total                                     31600 _6_519000                                                560           44      22,5C0
Other COnStructlon
Covered Rhola                  1,000         -       -         -    1,000       _       _         _       _       1,050       45         450
Co-crote Water                 4,000         -    4,000        -      -         -                                 4,000       45       1,800
Tank 60,000 1. 1/-                                   - -  -        -       -        -                          -          -              -
Water Troughs 3GO 1              15O         2       300       1      150               -         -       -         450       45         203
Piping 50 mm                    0/n        400m,     SO     200m      400       -       -         -               1,200       90       1,080
Cattleyevds                   2,000          1    2,000        -      _         _       _                         2.000       45         900
Spray Race & Engine           5,000          1    s,ao         -      -                           -       -       5,000       45       2,250
Store/Workshop/Offiie          20/o2         -       -       64m  12,800        -       -         -       -      12,800       45       5,988
Demoontratio   Unit              550         -       -         1       550      -       _         _       _         550       45         248
Fencing                      375/km          3km  1,125        -      -         _       _         _               1,125       90       1,013
forage Reserve               150/ha         lOha  1,500        -                -                 -               L0         20         300
Sob-Total                                     14,725            14.900              _                        23,625        48     1
Vehicles
Motorcycles - 100 cc             So0         1       S00       -      -                                             800       90         720
Foor-Wheel Drive             14,500          1   14500         -                        _                        14500        9       13,050
Sub-Total                                     15.300               -                 -15300                               90  13 ,770
1so1prXent
Os-Carts S Zquipment             700         2    1,400        2    1,400       -       -         -       _       2,000       20         560
Office Furniture                 -           -      -          -      750                         -       -         750       50         155
Farm Hand Tools                  050         -       250       -      -         _       _         _       _         250       25          50
Metal Tools                      500         -       500       -      -         _       _         _       _         500       50         250
Kerosene Refrigerator,
Syringes, Clasaw.re        1,500          -        _       -       -         1  -1,500             9          1.i50-      _ 
Sub-Total                                     22,150             2,150            1.50C                       5,800       41       2-36S
Cows                             100         -      -        20    0,000        -                                2,000         -         -
Bulls                            160         -      -          5      800       -       _         -       r         800        -         -
Sub-Total                                        -               2,800            ---            _2,60                      -
Total Capital Coats                              63,775            38,850             1,500               -    104,125        51      52,762
O2eratIng Casts
Salaries & Wages
Farm Manager (STA)            1,770          _    1,770        1    1,770       1    1,770        1    1,770    7,080          -         -
Technical Assistant              920         1       820       1      820       1       820       1       020    39020         -         -
Herdsmen                         470         1       470       2      940       2       940       2       940    3,290         -         -
Clerk                            630         -      -          1      630       1       630       1       630    0,890         -         -
Copy Typist (26)                 770         -      -          1      770       1       770       1       770    2,310         -         -
Ox-Trainer (DA)                   60         1       560       1      560       1       560       1       560    2,240         -         -
Carponter/Craftsomn              800         -      -          1      800       1                         S00  1  80  2,400              -
Laborers                         180         5       900       5      900       5       900       5       900    3,600         -         -
Watchman                         250         1       250       1      250       1       250       1       250    1_000       _           _
Sub-Total                                      4(7 7             7,440            7,440               )      2_40 927_              __
Other Operating Costs
Construction Maintenance         2 112%      -      -          -   1,158        -    2,006        -    2,006    5,170         45       2,327
Minerals, Medicines,               .
Feedstuffs                   10/AU       50       500      100   1,000    100    1,000    100    1,000    3,500            50       1,750
Fam  Supplies                    -           -       750      -       750       -       750       -       750    3,000        50       1,500
Fertilizeo   and Seeds         50/ha        -      -          5hs    250      10ha    500        -       500   _125           0         25
Sob-Total                                      1,250             3,158            _.5               4,256   12.920        45
Vehicle Operating              6,000         -       -              6,000             6.000             6.000   L8  oOO       90     16,200
Total Operating Costs                              6,020           16,598            17696              7696   58 010         38     22,07
TOTAL MERU LIVESTOCK
IMIPROVEMESET CENTER                           69,795            55.448           19.196            17_696  162,135         46     74,769
February 1981



56
MWLAWI                                          Tab le T- IQ
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Livestock: Pilot Grazing Areas
(Chisi and Nyungwe)
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4         Total      FE        FE
LUnit Cost      No.   Cost        No.   CoSt        No.   Cost        No.   Cost        Cost       %      Cost
Capital Costs
Civil Works - Houses               200            4      800       -       -         -       -         -       -         800       -         -
Fencirig            375/km        2km    750        lkm     375       -      -          -      -       1,125       40     1,013
Hyena Proof
Yards         1,000            _        -        1    1:000       -       -         -       -       1,000       .5       450
Crushes & Pens    750             1       750       1       750       -      -          -      -       1,500      6S        675
Forrages            150/ha        5ha    750        5ha    750        -       -         -      -       1,500       .0        300
Watering Point    100             2       200       2       200       -       -         -      -          400       5        180
Sub-Total                                           3,250            3.075                                 -       6,325       1      2,618
Equipment
Ox Cart/Plow Equipment             700            2    1,400       -       -         -       -          -      -       1,400      2D        740
Syringes, Tools                    150           2       300       -    _            -       -          -      -         300      80        240
Sub-Total                                           1,700               -                -                 -       1,700                 380
Oxen                               160            3      480       -                 - _        _       _                480       -         -
Total Capital Costs                                    5,430             375                -                  -       8,505      35      2,998
Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages
Casual Workman                     470           4    1,880        4    1,880        4    1,880         4   1,880    7,520
Laborers                           180            8    1           8    1_440        8    1,440         8   1,440    5,760
Sub-Total                                           3,320            3,32O             3,320             3,320   13.2S0
Other Operating
Maintenance Civil Works            2 112%                                   81               158               158       397      40        159
Drugs, Vaccines, Minerals            3/head   100        300    200        400    250        500      300      600    1,800       50      _00
Sub-Total                                             300               481              658               758    2,197       48      1,059
Total Operating Costs                                  3.620             3.801             3,978             4,078   15,477        7     1.059
TOTAL COSTS                                            91050             6,876             3,978            4.078   23.982        17 .  4,057
Eebruary 1981



57
Table T-1(k)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Livestock: Slauehter Pacilities
Unit                                                               Fore2jn Exchange
No.        Cost    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3    Year 4                Total      Percent     Cost
1.   CAPITAL COSTS
(a)  Grade A Facility          2        10,000   10,000    10,000         -          -          20,000        35        7,000
Grade B Facility          6         1,000    3,000      3,000        -          -           6,000        35        2,100
Grade C Facility         21           100    1,100      1,000        -          -           2,100        30          630
14,100    14,000        -          -         28,100                   9,730
(b) Equipment
Grade A              2           300      300        300       -          -             600
Grade B              6           150      450        450        -         -             900
Grade C             21            10      110        100        -         -             210
860       850        -          -          1,710         80        1,368
Total Capital Costs                              14,960    14,850         -         -          29,810                 11,098
'.  OPERATING COSTS
(a) Maintenance  of        28,100K 2.5%   703       -          353        703        703        1,759         35          616
Slaughter facili-
ties
Equipment mainte -
nance        1,710K   5%    85       --          43        85         85           213         80         170
Total Operating Costs                                -          396       788        788         1,972                    786
TOTAL COSTS:  CAPITAL AND OPERATING                    14,960    15,246         788       788        31,782         37       11,884
K = Malawi Kwacha.
February 1981



58
Table T-1(1)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Credit
(MK)
*Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4                      FE         FE
Unit Cost       No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost       Total        %         Cost
I. Capital Costs
Civil Works 1/
Housing - type CL6             44,000         0.5  22,000   0.5   22,000    -          -        -       -       44,000      45         19,800'
type EL2/PH4         9,500         3    28,500   4       38,000    -        -        -       -       66,500      45         29,92'
traditional            200       20      4,000  20        4,000   10    2.000        7    1.400    11,400         -            -
Sub-Total                                       54,500           64.000           2,000           1,400   1L21,900                  49,72:t
Vehicles and Equipment
4 WD Pickups SWB               12,500         3    37,500                              - -                      37,500      90         33,75C
Motorcycles lOOcc                 800        15    12,00        -       -       -      -        -       -       12,000      90         10,800
Sub-Total                                       49500-                              -                -      49,500                 44,550
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                               104,000           64,000           2,000            1.400   171.400       55         94-275
II. Operating Costs                   -
Salaries and Wages 6/
Clerical Officer                  630         1       630       1     630      I       630      1       630      2,520       -           -
Technical Assistant          See FN 2/        -       -         -      -               -        -       -          -         -           -
Development Assistant 3/          270         7    1,890       17   4,590    27    7,290    34    9.180    22,950            -
Sub-Total                                       2,520            5,220            7,920           9,810    25,470                     -
Other Operating
Vehicles-L 4 WD                 6,000/yr.    -        -         1   6,000       1    6,000      1    6,000    18,000        90         16,200
Motorcycles           900/yr.    -        -         5   4,500      5    4,500       5    4,500      13,500      90         12,150
Bldg. Maintenance 5/                          -       -             2,912            2 962            3,012      8,886                  1,777
Other (Stationary, etc)                       -    2,000            2.000            2 000            2,000    .8000        90          7,200
Sub-Total                                       2,000           15.512          15.462           15.512    48,486                  37,327
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                              _4,520          20,732           23,382           25,322     13,956      50         37,327
TOTAL COSTS - CREDIT SECTION                      108,520          84,732           25.382          26.722   245,356        54        131,602
l/  Houses to be allocated as follows:  CL6 for CTD; 7 EL2/PH4s for the 5 TAs and 2 COs to staff the accotnts section.
Traditional houses for DAs.
2/  The section intends to replace 8 DAs now in post with 5 TAs.  This represents no incremental salary coist.
3/ For half year.
4/ Only operating cost Df incremental (not replacement) vehicles.
5/ 2 1/2% of capital costs.
6/ Includes subsistence and travel.
February 1981



59
Table T-1(m)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Markets
-MK-
Year l          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4         Total      FE         FE
Unit Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost        Cost       %        Cost
Capital Costa
Civil Works
Housing - Type E         10,000         2   20,000       1   10,000       1   10,000      2   20,000    60,000       45       27,000
Input Stores              8,000         1    8,000       1    8,000       1    8,000      2   16,000    40,000       45       18,000
Marketing Shed:
Expansion               6,000         -                1    6,000      -       -        -       -        6,000     45        2,700
Construction           25,000         1   25,000       -      -        -       -        -       -       25,000     45      11,250
Sub-Total Capital Costs                                   24,000           18,000          36,000   131,000       45      58.950
Operating Costs
Salaries & Wages
CO                          630         2    1,260       3    1,8W'       4    2,52(      6    3,780       9,45o      -          -
Watchman                    500         2    1,000       3    1,500       4    2,000      6    3,000       7,500      -          -
Sub-Total Salaries &
Wages                                  2.260            3,390            4,520           6,780    16,950
Building Maintenance       2.5%          -       -             1,325      -    1,925      -    2,375       5,625      45       2,531
Sub-Total Operating
Costs                                  2,260            4.715            6.445           9.155    22,575       11       2,531
TOTAL COST                                   55,260          28,715           24,445           45,155   153,575       40      61,481
February 1981



60
MATArUT
Table T-l(n)
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPltENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Land iubandry
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4
Unit Cost      NO.    Cost       No.    Cost       NO.    Cost      NO.    Cost          Total          FE,           FE Cost
Capital Costs
Civil Works
Housing-PHI4                         9,500         1   9,500      ...      ---      ---      ---      --      -9,50C0                      45            4,275
Vehicles & Esuipment
4 WD, LWB pickup 1J                 14,500        2  29,000       ---      ---      --_                                 29,000             90           26,100
Motorcycles 1/                         800        2   1,600       ---      --- ---   _--              ---      --         1,60C            90             1,440
Survey equipment, etc.                                 6,000      ---      ---      ---      ---     ---      ---        6,000             80            4,800
Camping & office supplies                              1100- ---                    ---      ---      ---     ---        1,10              90              880
Sub-total                                 37,700                                                            37,700                          33,220
Total Capital Costs                                     47,200                                                            47,200                          37,495
Operating Costs
Salaries & Wages
Driver                                 840        1      840        1      840        1      840        1     840        3,360             --
Other Onerating Costs
Vehicles, pickup                     6,000         1   6,000        1   6,000         1   6,000         1   6,000       24,000             90            21,600
Stationery                                             1,000             1,000            1,000             1,000        4,000             --
24 miles drainage ditches                              3,000               ---               ---              ---        3,000             45             1,350
Building maint., 2k%                                     ---               238              238               238           714            45               321
Sub-total                                10,000            7,238             7,238             7,238       31,714                          23,271
Total OpeTating Costs                                   10,840             8,078             8,078            8,078        35,074                          23,271
Total Cost - Local Husbandry                              58 040                               8,078             8,078       82 274            74            60,766
LI One pickup and two motorcycles are replacements of old ones.  One pickup is neu, this is reflected in operating costs_
February 1981



61
Table T-^l(n
MAIAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Forestry: Reserves
(MS)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4                     FE       FE
Unit Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost       Total       %       Cost
I. Capital Costs
Civil Works
Houses- /- type E                12,000                 -                -        2   24,000              -       24,000    45        10,800
type F                 9,500                 _                -        6   48.000              -       48,000    45        21,600
improved
traditional           1,000                 _                       15   15,000                       15,000    45         6,750
Sub-Total                                            _               _             87.000              -       8_,000              39,150
Other Civil Works
Land gazetting and surveying                          4,000            4,000              -               _        8,000    10            800
Office Space                    25/m2                   _                _            20,000              -       20,000    454
Sub-Total                                         4,000            4.000           20,000                      28,000               9,800
Vehicles
Motorcycles                         800                 -         5   4,000              _                         4,000    90         3,600
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                   4,000            8,000         116A210                     137,420    38        52.550
II. Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages
Senior Forest Ranger (STA)        1,770                 -                -        1    1,770      1    1,770       3,540      -          -
Forest Ranget (TA)                  820                 -                -       4    3,280       4    3,280       6,560      -          -
Forest Guards (DA)                  430                 -                -      15    6,450    15    6,450    12,900          -          -
Typist (D6)                         770                 -                -       1       770      1       770      1,540      -          -
Senior Clerical Officer (SCO)   1,720                   -               -        1    1, 720      1    1,720       3,440      -          -
Clerical Offieer (CO)               620                 _                _        1      620      1       620      1,240      -          -
Sub-Total                                            -               -             14,610          14,610    29,220                   -
Vehicle Operating
Motorcycles                         900                 -                -        5    4,500       5    4,500      9,000    90         8,100
Civil Works Maintenance
All Items                         21/2% pa              -                -                -             2,905      2,905    37         1,075
Other Operating
Early Burning                    1.2/km                 -                -             1,110            1,110      2,220      -          -
Boundary Clearing               12/la                   -                -             8,100            8,100    16.200       -          -
Training of Forest Guards                                                -             1,400              -        1,400      -          -
Sub-Total                                                             -10,610                        9.210    19,820    22            -
TOTAL OPERATING                                                                       2972                                   22        9,175
TOTAL COSTS - FORESTRY RESERVES                       4,000            8000          136_720           31.225   179,945    34         61 725
1/ Housing allocated as follows:
Type E for senior forest ranger and SCO; Type F for forest guards, CO and typist;
traditional houses for forest guards.
February 1980



62
NAWI                                               TabITble r-l(pj
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOMNT PROGR.A0  (NRDP) PhASE III PROJECT
Forestry: Chitipa Plantation
(NE)
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4                    FE       eE
Ulit Cosl      No.   Coas       N      Coal       No,   Cost       N.    Cost       Total      2        as
I. Capital Costs
Civil Works
bo n             1 type D          22,000           -      -        -       -        1   22,000       -       -      22,000    45        '',9CO
improved
traditional            1,000           -      -        -       -        2    2,000       -       -       2,000    45           900
shelter                     60          -      -        -       -       10       600      -       -          600      -         -
type F                  9,500           -      -        -       -        2   19.000       -       -      19,000    45          ,5521
Sub-Total                                                                             43,600                     43,600    44       19350
Other Civil Werks
Offices                            250/m2           -      -        -       -       20n   5,000       -       -       .;,000    45       2 25)
Gazetting                             -             -      500          -       -        -       -        -             500    10           5)
Nursery Establishment                  70           -      -        -       -        1        70      -       -          70      -         -
Nursery Stote                         200           -      -        -       -        1       200      -       -         200    45            9)
Land Clearing                       181/ha          -     -         -       -      150    2,700   15O       2,700     i,400      -         -
Planration Roada                 1,000/km           -      -        -       -        3    3,000       3    3,010    4,000    40          2.40)
Plantation Establishment 21         65/ha           -     _        _       -      150    9,750   150    0,750   19,500   J0              1,95)
Sub-Total                                              500              -             20,720           15,450    36,670    18         6,74W
Vehicles
7 to  Lorry                       19,000           -      -        1   19,000           -        -           -      10!,000    go       17,100
fotatcycles                           800           -      -        1       800      -       _                       _  800    9°       __72t
Sub-Total                                              _             19,800              -                -      19,22    9°0        17,,82t
Equipment
Nursery Equipment                                   _      -        -       -        -       700      -       120       800    S0           54C
Seed, Imported                                      -     -         -       -        -       225      _       225       450    go          405
Polythene Tubes                   3/1,000           -      -        -       -        -       990      -       990    1,910      45          792
Aldris                               5/k1           -      -        -       -        -       190      -       190       382    90           342
NPK Fertilizer                     0.7/kg           -      -        -       -        -    1,260       -    1,260    2,520    90          2,268
Borate                              80/ha           -     -         -       -        - 12,500         -   12,010    24,000    90         2,600
Plantation Tools                                    -      -        -       -        -    1,350       -    1,350      2,710    80        2,160
Offic,- Equipment                                   _       -                        - __ 3,00        -      _        3,00      o        2,00
Sub-Total                                              -                _             19,715 5         16115   35_5          h6      30. 127
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                        500          19,800           84_0 3-L         31,565  135,90        5       74, 17
II. OperaIrlo Coats
Salar:ies
Forester                            2,120           -     -        -       -         1    2,120       1    3,120      4,240
Forem-n                               430           -      -        -       -        1       430      1       434       860
Clerical Officer                      620           -      -        -       -        1       620      1       620    1,24C
Driver                                840           -      -        -       -        1       840      1       84C    1,68C
Nurseryman                            430           -      -        -       -        1       430      1       430       860
Labor                              .3/day           -                                        695      -       675    1.350       -       _:
S1b-Total                                              -                               5_115            5.115   10,230        -
Vehic le Oper ating
7 ton Lorry                         7,500           -     _         -      _         1    2,500       1      ,500   15,000      90      13,. 30
MNtorcycles                           900           -               -                        go       1       90l 00    1,OOO .01 o      1.2(.0
Sub-Total                                              -                                 40             8,400   16.800       90      15,: 30
3uildiag Yaintenance
Housing, Stores, Office
and Roads                         21/2%pa        -                         _-    1,200                              1,295    43           1i6
Other Operating Casts
Fire Protection                        2./hz        -      -        -       -     150        150   300        300      .450      -
Weeding                               30/ha 3/    -        -        -       -        -       -      150    4.500      400        _ O
Sob--Total                                             _                -                150            4_800    _4.950
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                                    1 3 65           19,610   33,.75 L
TOTAL COSTS:  CEITIPA PLANTATION                           500          19,800           97,700            51,175  169:75'L   45        75.313
1/  HousIng allorated as follows:  type D: forester; improved traditional: nurserymar; sherter:l0 laborers; type F: driver
and co.
2/  Ma't.r.g, pitting, planting, and beeting up at MK 16/ha; borate application at Mt 6/ha; plus weeding in year of planting
at MK 4:3/ha.
3/ In first year after planting. Thereafter, weeding would cost: MK 5/ha.
February 1981



63
MAILAWI                                               Table T-1 A)
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT P80RRAM (URDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Health
2                                               4
Yale Coat               _Vesta  1                   Year 2  ,Year 3                                        Yea¢r 4                                 Pareign  Oxfchanee
Xc       Test            Na.,     Gear              .'D.     Test               No.      Cast              Total             7        Cost
CAPIIAI. CYSTS
cool Work   p                                  12,000                  I     12,000                    12,000              _        _                  _                        24,000            45       10,800
Suib-ceniter                                62,000                  r.5   41,050             0.5   41,000                -        -                 -         -              82,000            45        50,050
Ottoerosto center                           45,000                  1      45.000            1      45.000               -        -                 -         -              90.000            45        40,500
Soh-'oleal Civil WSr-s                                                   98,000                                                                                           196,_?0
Sub-ronter                                  18,000                  -        _                                                                                               1 ,000            80        14,4r0
Saberrl-- terSer                            11,000                  _        _               2      22.000               -        -                 -         -              22,000             s0       17,600,
4-WD-Vehicle                                15,570                  _        _               1      15,500                                                                   15.500             90       1395l0
Sob-Total  Cqulneoo                                                                                50                                                                       55.550                      45,950
-TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                                         98,000                  153,500                                                                   251_500            53      134,150
0PEdAoTING COSTS
F blit Health Ot3toor                       40,000                  -        -               1      40,000              1       40,000              1       40.000          120,000            95      114,0DM
F bISo Health  Horse                         1.400                  2       2,b00            2       2,800               2        2,800             2        2,800           11,200
PIreM'tf                                       700                  -~ 1-0c  2  50                         1                        700             1           700           2,100_
isoroe!Sl SidolOe                              700                  -                        1         700               1          700             1           700           2,100
rrialAsstr                                       00-                          -170 0       0                                                                    7  00         2,100-                      -
oealtb Assirtg-t                                700                 -        -               1         700               1          700             1           200           2,100
W-ud A,te-dat2 225                                                                           1          225              1          225             165
Soh-Cocalaries  6 Wages                                                  27800                    45.125                      45.125                      45_125          138,175                    114_000
Ocher Ooeracloo Costa:                                                                                                                 00ooosoo5                                                             ,0
ra- Sb-.-                                                                                                           30000                                    3,000            9000             90         8,
Toll oeoiti7os                                                     3,000                    3,000                        3,000                      3,000           12,000            90        10,800
Piles Ptograts                                                              4,000                    4,000                       4,000                       4.000           16,000            50        8,000
Oporatleg toots 4-W0-vehlels                 6.000                           -                       6.000                        6_000                      6.000           18,000            90       160200
Seb-Total OtFor Operating  Coats                                          7.000                   16.000                      16,000                      16,000           55.000            93       51,100
,OTAL OPEROATING COSTS                                                        9 ,000                  61,125                       61.125                      61.125         193.175             85      165,100
TOTAL COSTS HEALTH COMPONENT                                                107.800                  214,625                       61,125                     61,125          444,675             67      299,250
LI  At -Rape-da ad Iflabo Matetotty Ceeters ip Chitipa d-itOos.
Febeeae.r 1981



64
NATIONAL RURAL DEVEILOPMENT IPRCORAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT                     Table  -I(r)
Proiect Administration
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4                    FE         FE
Unit Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Coat       No.   Cost      Total       %        Cost
EVALUATION
I. Capital Costs
Civil Works
Housing - DL3               22,000         1   22,000      -       -        -      -        -              22,000      45       9,900
EL2               9,500         1    9,500       -                       _                       9,500      45       4,275
Sub-Total                                   31,500                                              -      31,500      45       14.175
Vehicles & Equipment
4 WO Pick-Up SWB            12,500         1   12,500      -                                              :2,500      90       11,250
Motorcycles - 100 cc's  1/   800           2    1,600      -       _        .         _        _            1,600      90       1,440
Programmable Calculator    1,500           1    1,500      -       _        ..     _        _       -      1,500      90        1,350
Other Office Equipment                             750     -       _        ..     _                          750     90          675
Field Equipment                                 5,500      -       -        .    3,600      -       -      9,100      90        8,190
Niscellaneons (Statinnary,
etc.)                            2,000      -    2,000      --   2,000       -    2,000    8,000       90        7,200
Sub-Total                                   2,000                             5.600           2,000   33,450       90       30,105
II. Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages
Data Processing Officer    3,830           1    3,830      1    3,830       1    3,830      1    3,830   15,320        -          -
Data Analyst - D5            1,150         1    1,150      1    1,150       1    1,150      1    1,150    4,600        -
Typist - Grade I             1,150         1    1,150      1    1.150       1    1.150      1    1,150    4,600        -
Sub-Total                                    6,130            6,130           6,130           6,130   24,520        -          -
Other Operating
Vehicle - 4WD                6 000                               6,000           6,000            6,000   18,000      90       16,200
Building Maintenance          21/2%        -      -        -       800      -      800      -       800    2,400      45        1t080
Trairing for Local Data
Processing Officer           500         -      500      -       -       -       -        -      -         500       -          -
Sub-Total                                      500           6 800            6,800           6.800   20,900       82       17,000
TOTAL EVALUATION UNIT                               61,980          14,930           18,530          14,930  110,370       56      61,550
PLANNMIW,
I. Capital Costs
Civil Works - Housing         50,000    0.5   25,000    0.5  25,000    -            -       -       -     50,000    45         22,500
Type B
II. Operating Costs
Salary - Planning Officer    6,320    1          6,320    1      6,320    1       6,320      1    6,320   25,280       -         -
TOTAL PkANNING                                      31,320          31_320            6 320           6,320   75.280    30         22.500
FINANCE SECTION
I- Caital CosEts
oousirn0, 'r,,e r             5n,non    1       50,r00                                                    5(,0!O0     45       22,500
IT. Oneratine Costs
Salaries and Wages
Financial Controller        58,000    1      58,0nn     1                 I5,000  1   58,Cnl           17Z,000    100       174,3C0
Buildina MAintenance           2.57      -         -             1,250           1,25^            1,250    ^,750      45        1,688
OTAL FINANCE SECTION                              108,000          59,250          59,250            1,250  227,750      87      198,488z
TOTAL ADMINISTRATION                               201,300         105,500          84,100           22,500  413,400       68     282,548
7 Replacement
March 1981



65
Table T-l(s)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROCRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Central Evaluation Unit
(Ma)
Year l           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4        Total      FE         FE
Unit Cost       No.   Cost       No.   Cost        No.   Cost       No.   Cost        Cost      %        Cost
Capital Costs
Micro Computer and
Accessories                12,000         1   12,000                                                          12,000     90      10,800
Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages
Asst. Data Processing
Officer (PO)                3,750         1    3,750       1    3,750        1   3,750        1   3,750      15,000      -
Other Operating
Micro Computer                                     200               200             200              200         800     90          720
Training - Overseas           8,000               4,000            4,000                                         8,000    100       8,000
Local             1,000               1,000            1,000           1,000                         3,000     -          _
Sub-Total                                     5,200             5,200           1,200              200      11.800               8.720
TOTAL COSTS                                     208,950                            4.950             3,950     38,800      50      19,520



66
Tabla T-1(t)
RtATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO!R!  JNRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Son.onys ont Sttisticst Unit
Year 1 (1/2 year)           Year 2                  Year 3                  Ye-r 4
Unit                  1981/82                1902/83                 1983/84                1984/85                                    PE               PE
Item                      Coat                No.       K             No.                    H Ro.     }             No.      K             Tetel C.a:             7             Cost
Capital -oO00
Civil looks
Housiog DH6  1/                 26,300                 1    26,300                                                                                    26,300             65             11,835
Hooting DH0  1/                 23,2D0                 1    23,260            _        _              -                                               23,200             45             10,440
Offict   2/                      6.,750               3    20.2510           _        - _            _                                               202250             45              9.115
Slb-Total                                                690750                  _ _                                             _                69,750              43
VchinLio  and Etoisonot
4-6D 10 .ean.r  37               15,500                -       -              3    46,500             -       -               -       -               46,500             90             41,850
Mottroytles 4/                      a00                -       -             10       8,000          10     8.000            -       _                16000              90             14400
Sub-TTtal                                                   -                   54,500                   8.000                                    62,500              90             56,250
Oo-ating Coats
Tochnical Aknots-oe
Syst-en  Aoalyst                55,500                 -       -              -        -              0    55,000            -         -              55,000             95             52,250
Sonny Sp-sialito                 11,000                -        -                   27-.:i10          i    13.750            t    13,750              51 000             95             52.250
Sob-Total                                                   -         _          77  00                 68,750                 13,750            110,000             95      10      4 500
T-oitiag
Conon-to-                            50                -       -            132     6,600           132     6,600          132      6,600             19,800              -
Dana Procenssor
- Incounnty                    1,500                 -1                           1,500            1      1,10D            1     1,100              4,500               -
- Int-nnational               13,550                         -,100                                  -       -              -        -                6,500            lo(              6,500
Prof national Stoff             11,000                 -       -                     61500            ½     6.500            -        -               13.000            100             13.000
Sob-Total                                                   -                   21.100                  14,600                  6.100             43.800             45              19,S0O
Sala-iet & wua-t
Prin-ipal Sooneyn
& E-altation
'flicer ('7)                   5,960                 1     2,980            1     5o960             1     5,960            1     5,960             20,860               -
oegional Supervisors
(sIC) 5/                       3,580                3      5,370            3    10,7310           3    10,740             3    10,740             37,590              -
Fiend Of 'i.r.  (TO) 9/           1,920                3     2,800            3    5,760              3     5,760            3      5,760             20,160              -
Supetvisora (SCO) 7/              1,770               16    14,160           16    28,320            16    28,320           16    28,320              99,120
Statistical Clrrkn (CO) 7/          520               16     i,160           16      8,320           16    8,320            16     8,320             29,120
loomenntoon (05C 77                 520              100    26,500          100    52,000           100    52,000          100    52,000            182,000
Irionrn 7/                          800                3     1,200            3      2,400            3     2,400            3      2,400              8,400
L.btoent 8/                          60              105     6.000          100      6.t00 .        100     6.000          100      6.000             24,000
Sob-Total                                                620750                119,500                 119.500                119,500            421.250              -
Vehi.lo Operating Contn
LIad InRotv                      10,200                3    15,000            3    30,000             3    30,000            3    30,000             103,000             90             9.4,S00
Kot_ooyolan                         900               20     9,000           20    18,000            20    18,000           20    19,000             63,000              90            56,700
Bicycleo                             42              100    21.000          100     4.200           100     4.200          100      4.200            146700              90            1! 230
S.b-Total                                                26.100                 52Z200                  52.200                 52.200            182.700             90             61. 430
Other Ope-rtina Cotlts
Rouso tR-t                           60              132     3,960          132      7,920          132     7,920          132       7,920            27,720             -
PV80 Hiro                           -                  -       -                    3,000                   3,000                    1,0oO            9,000              s0              7,20
Printing & Stntinnery                                        2,500                  2,500                   2,500                    2,500           10,000             50               5,000
Eoip-mt Rn p.nlanement               50                -       -            132      6,600          ]32     6,600          132       6,600           19,800              80             15,840
Comtern- Tima                                                2,000                  10,000                 10,000                   10,000            32,000             90             25,600
ltiatnllantctn   9t                                          1.000                   3.400                  3,00                     3400             11,200 0
Sob-Total                                                 9.460            _    33 420                  33.420                  33.420           109.720             49             ;53640
GRAHD TOTAL                                                168.060                 3068220                296.470                 226,970           999.720                            t i)9,708
1/ Fot the Suony adm,oinitator and filod offierr in Northeoe Regton.
2   For thb  Northern Region SOcety adtiniitra-tio  (I x SEO, I o TO end 3 x CO).
3/ One for oath Regional adinistln tion teo, r-place=ent of 4 WD vthiclen used by National Samplt Sbooy of Agri-lt-re 1979/80  ed 1980/81.
4/  0O- fto  tanh toot suparvisor, oue f-o tash fiold officer and ont for headquartern.  Tonal of tnenty rquired.  Raploting 05i0ti0g 1        otor-ynlta
oned by  a           pnional  lamplo Snooty of Agcoiolt-or  1979/80 and 1980/81.
0   Inn  _ot eact  Rtgion.  Exinting officts and booting  to ko ontd for Contnal Region (to AgS) and Soothbrn Rtgito  (en NSO).
6/  ate fon oath Region.  Existing offices to .e coed for Cenotol kegion (en AES) and  ooth-ern Riagon (en NSO), hooting in Central and ioethern
Region to bn scppliod by hooting pool (Lill-og-a cod Zonba).
7/  Net  postn filled Ioomeoicnig noons sof thn National Sesplo Snooty (1980/91).
0/  To conk with  nt-nt-tot-  on ocodro  - -atot-steno and yield cob-plot hbe-nesting fon foot nonths  -th, pet  survy ses000.
9/  Letoe Sract , diOt-boanot allowtcon  and sutsisteuce a  ttnardod  -at-.
'tay 13, 1981



67
Table T-2
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements   a/
IDA                                Quarterly Disbursements  Cumulative Disbqrsements
Fiscal Year      Quarter Ending                (US$ '000)                (US '000)
1981/82          January 31, 1982                  100                     100
'arch 31, 1982                    100                     200
June 30, 1982                    200                      400
1982/83          September 30, 1982                400                     800
December 31, 1982                 400                   1,200
March 31, 1983                    500                   1,700
June 30, 1983                    600                    2,300
1983/84          September 30, 1983               600                    2,900
December 31, 1983                 500                   3,400
March 31, 1984                    500                   3,900
June 30, 1984                    500                    4,400
1984/85          September 30, 1984               400                    4,800
December 31, 1984                400                    5,200
March 31, 1985                    400                   5,600
June 30, 1985                    400                    6,000
1985/86         September 30, 1985                300                    6,300
December 31, 1985                 300                   6,600
March 31, 1986                    300                   6,900
June 30, 1986                     200                   7,100
1986/87          September 30, 1986                200                   7,300
a! This schedule assumes that the Credit would become effective
in January 1982, and close in September 30, 1986.
March 1981



68
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT                           Table T-1(a)
Incremental Crop _roduction (Karonga _District)
Rice
Year I          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4          Year 5-2(
1981/82         1982/83          1983/84          1984/85         1985/86
WITHOUT PROJECT
Local: area (ha) 1/                 800             1,000            1,200          1,400             1,600
yield (kg/ a)              1,600            1,600            1,600           1,600            1,600
production (mt)            1,280            1,600            1,920           2,240            2,560
Faya:  area (ha)                  4,100             4,100            4,100          4,100             4,100
yield (kg/ha)             2,400             2,400            2,400           2,400            2,400
production (mt)           9,840             9,840            9,840          9,840             9,840
Total Rice Production         11,120           11,440           11,760          12  980           12,400
WITH PROJECT
Local: area (ha)  1/                800               800              800            800               800
yield (kg/ha)             1,600             1,600            1,600           1,600            1,600
production (mt)           1,280             1,280            1,280           1,280            1,280
Faya:  area (ha)                  4,100             4,300            4,500          4,700             4,900
yield (kg/ha)             2,400             2,400            2,400           2,400            2,400
production (mt)           9,840            10,320           10,800         11,280            11,760
Total Rice Pr duction         11,120           11 60            12  L8O         12__60            13,040
INCREMENTAL RICE PRODUCTION         -                 160              320            480               640
1/ It is asaumed that without ths project, the hectarage cultivated with local
rice would increase anyway, because of the financial attraction of the crop;
with the project, some rice farmers growing the local variety would switch to
faya. The local rice amounts would therefore be smaller with the project,
but the amounts of faya variety would be larger.
February 1981



69
Table T-3(b)
NAJIONAI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGR,AM        PP)PASE III PROJECT
Incremental C-o Production (Karonga District)
Maize
Year  1          Year  2          Year  3          Year  4          Year 5-20
-TiTs 2-        719r8-2-          -1-983784        19840y -48 5     1-9I8586
WITHOUT PROJECT
Local: area (ha)              3,000            3,000            3,000            .3,000             3,000
yield (kg/ha)            800              800              800              800               800
production (mt)       2,400            2,400            2,400            2,400              2,400
Composite: area (ha)             300              300              300              300               300
yield (kg/ha)    1,600             1,600            1,600            1,600             1,600
production (mt)   480                480              480              480               480
Total Maize Production  2) 880              2,880               8802 2,8802
WITH PROJECT
Local: area (ha)              3,000            3,025            3,050            3,075             3,100
yield (kg/ha)            800              800              800              800               800
production (mt)       2,400            2,420            2,440            2,460              2,480
Composite: area (ha)            300               375              450              525               600
yield (kg/ha)    1,600             1,600            1,600            1,600             1,600
production (mt)   480                600              720              840               960
Total Maize Production  2,880               3,020            3,160            3,300             3,440
INCREMENTAL MAIZE PRODUCTION -                   11.0             280              420                560
February 1981



70                                          Table T-3(c.
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Incremental Crop9 Production (Karonga District)
Cotton
Year  1           Year  2           Year  3            Year  4          Year 5 2()
198162            198283            1983/84            1984/85           198/76
WITHOUT PROJECT
Area (ha)                           700                700               700                 700              700
Yield (kg/ha)                       700                700               700                 700              700
Production (mt)                     490               490                490                490               490
WITH PROJECT
Area (ha)                           700                725               750                 775              800
Yield (kg/ha)                       700                700               700                700               700
Production (mtt)                    490               507                525                542               560
Incremental Cotton Production        -                  17                35                 52                70
Incremental Cotton Area              -                  25                50                 75               100
February 1981



71                                            Table T-3(d)
MALAWI
.NATIONA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Incremental Crp Production (Chitipa District)
Mfaize
Year  1         Year  2          Year  3          Year  4         Year 5-20
1 98182         1982873          1983784          1984/85        1T985/-6
WITPOUT PROJECT
Local- area (ha)                          8,000            8,000            8,000           8,000            8,000
yield (kg/ha)                     1,200            1,200            1,200            1,200            1,200
production (it)                   9,600            9,600            9,600            9,600           9,600
Composite: area (ha)                      1,500            1,500            1,500            1,500           1,500
yield (kg/ha)                 2,800            2,800           2,800            2,800            2,800
production (mt)               4,200            4,200           4,200            4,200            4,200
Hybrid: area (ha)                           400              400              400              400             400
yield (kg/ha)                    3,800            3,800            3,800           3,800            3,800
production (mt)                  1,520            1,520            1,520            1,520           1,520
Total Production of UIaize            15,320          15,320           15,320           15,320           15,320
WITH PROJECT
Local: area (ha)                          8,000            8,050           8,100            8,150            8,200
yield (kg/ha)                     1,200            1,200            1,200            1,200           1,200
producticn (mt)                   9,600            9,660            9,720            9,780           9,840
Composite: area (ha)                      1,500            1,600            1,700           1,800            1,900
average yield (kg/ha) 1/   2,800              2,775            2,765            2,784            2,800
production (mt)               4,200           4,440            4,700            5,011            5,320
Hybrid: area (ha)                           400              500              600              700             800
average yield (kg/ha) 1/         3,800            3,720            3,700           3,757            3,800
production (mt)                  1,520            1,860            2,220           2,630            3,040
Total Production of Maize             15,320          15 960           16j640           17,421           182200
INCRElENTAL MIAIZE PRXVJCTION               -                640           1,320            2,101            2,880
Tf¶These yields are weighted averages of adapting farmers and those already
growing the composite and hybrid. Yield assumptions for adapting farmers
are as follows:
Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5 and onwards
Composite             2,400    2,500    2,700            2,800
Hybrid                3,400    3,500    3,700            3,800
February 1981



72
Table 1-3(e)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production (Chitipa District)
Groundnuts and Beans
Year  1            Year  2            Year  3           Year  4           Year 5-20
1981/82            1982/83            1983/84           1984/85            1985/85
WITHOUT PROJECT: Groundnuts
Area (ha)                                300                300                 300               300                300
Yield (kg/ha)                            400                400                 400               400                400
Production (mt)                          120                120                 120               120                120
WITH PROJECT: Groundnuts
Area (ha)                                300                350                 400               450                50C
Yield (kg/ha)                            400                425                450               475                 500
Production (mt)                          120                 [49               180               214                 250
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION                    -                  29                 60                94                 130
INCREMENTAL AREA                          -                  50                100               150                 200
WITHOUT PROJECT: Beans
Area (ha)                              1,000              1,000              1,000             1,000              1,000
Yield (kg/ha)                            400                400                 400               400                400
Production (mt)                          400                400                400               400                 400
WITH PROJECT: Beans
Area (ha)                              1,000              1,050              1,100             1,150               1,200
Yield (kg/ha)                            400                425                450               475                 500
Production (mt)                          400                472                 550              632                 720
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION                    -                  72                150               232                320
INCREMENTAL AREA                          -                  50                100               150                200
February 1981



73
Table T-4(a)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Karonga Hectare Budget for Rice, Maize and Cotton
Without Project                     With Project
Local "                             Improved Var.
Rice
Yield, kg/ha                          1,600                               2,400
Price, mk/kg                               0.10                               P.1l
Gross margin                             160                                240
Variable costs 1/
Seed (61 kg/ha)                         6.71                                8.54
Fertilizer (5 bags, sa/ha)              -                                  32.50
Credit (15%)                            -                                   6.15
Sub-total                       6.71                              47.19
Net margin                               153.9                              192.81
Labor,mandays/ha                        172                                 195
Income manday                              0.89                               0.99
Maize
Yield, kg/ha                             800                              1,600
Price, mk/kg                               0.06                               0.06
Gross margin                             48                                  96
Variable costs
Seed (25 kg/ha)                         1.50 2/                             2.42  3/
Fertilizer (5 bags, sa/ha)              -                                  32.50
Credit (15%)                        _                                       5.23
Sub-total                       1.50                              40.15
Net Margin                               46.50                               55.85
Labor, mandays/ha                       112                                 130
Income, manday                            0.41                                0.43
Cotton
Yield, kg/ha                            700                                 700
Price, mk/kg                              0.20                                0.20
Gross margin                            161                                 161
Variable costs
Insecticides & credit                  53.86                               53.86
Net margin                              107.14                              107.14
Labor, manday/ha                        219                                 219
Income, manday                            0.49                                0.49
Groundnuts (Manipintar)
Yield  (kg/ha)                          300                                 300
Price, mk/kg                              0.20                                0.20
Gross margin                             60                                  60
Variable costs
Seed (62 kg/ha)                        17.16                               17.16
Net margin                               42.84                               42.84
Labor, mandays/ha                       180                                 180
Income, manday                            0.24                                0.24
I/  Ior recoiw,ended illput packages, see Table
2/ Food value only.
31 One-Third of seed cost, since fresh seed is required once every 3 years.
February 1980



74                               lable T-4(b)
MALAW I
NATIO(NAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PFASE III PROJECT
Chitipa Hectare Budget for Maize, Beans, Groundnuts ancl Tobacco
With    Project
Without Project                      Improved Variety  Maize
Local Variety    Local Variety   Composite Maize   Hybrid
Maize
Yield kg/ha                    1,200                                2,809           3,800
Price, mk/kg                       0.06                                 0.06            0.06
Gross margin (mik)                72                                  168             228
Variable cost 1/
seed, 25 kg/rha                  1.50 2/                              7.38          17.50
fertilizer                    ---                                    49.50          65.50
credit  3/                    ---                                     8.53          12.60
Sub-total                 1.50                                6S.41           95.60
Net margin                        70.50                               102.60          -.3L.40
Labor, manday/ha                 112                                  13C             '50
Income, manday                     0.63                                 0.79            0.88
Beans
Yield kg/ha                      400                600
Price mk/kg                        0.135              0.135
Gross margin                      54                 81
Variable cost
seed, 61 kg/ha                  10.24             10.24
Net margin                        43.76              70.76
Labor, manday/ha                 120                135
Income, manday                     0.36               0.52
Groundnuts
Yield kg/ha                      400                500
Pricemk/kg                         0.33               0.33            ---
Gross margin                     132                165
Variable cost
seed, 61 kg/ha                  21.12             21.12
Net margin                       111.12             143.88
Labor, manday/ha                 190               200
Income, manday                     0.58
Tobacco
Yield kg/ha                                         800
Price mk/kg                                           1.07
Gross margin                                        856
Variable cost
seed                                                0.62
fertilizer+ other inputs                          232
transport,weighing  commission                   124.40
credit                                            34.80
Sue-total                                  391.82
Net margin                                          4A4.18
Labor, manday/ha                                    350.00
Income, manday                                       -1.33
1/  For recommended iLnput packages, see Table T5(c).
2/ Food value only.
3/  Crplit rknr-e - 1eX of input cost brt this may be reduced to 10% for self-accounting
February 1981                                                                               groups



75
tI LAW I                                 Tahle T4l b4c`
NATIONAL R,TYRA7 _D7E-TOPHENT PROGRAM. (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECI
Su+mm ~ of  nus    akgs(e   a
Rainfed ri ce
61 kg    of Faya and local seed
250 kg of sulphate of ammonia (= 5 bags of S.A.)
Maize -Karonga
25 kg of local or composite variety CCA
250 kg of sulphate of ammonia (= 5 bags of S.A.)
Maize - Chitipa
25 kg of local or composite (U.C. A.) or hybrid (SR52 or 1H12)
250 kg of sulphate of ammonia and 100 kg of 20 : 20   0 mixture (U.C.A)
250 kg of sulphate of ammonia and 200 kg of 20:20:0 mixture for 'hlybrid
Groundrnuts
62 kg manipintar or 55 kg of chalimbana
Cotton
125 sachets Seviri
62 sachets DDT
25 sachets Dimethoate
Divided into 12 sprays during one crop cycle.
Tobacco
A. Nursery 1/
7 gr seed
6 kg "S' fertilizer mixture (6-8-6)
7 kg Methyl Bromide Fumigant
snn -0 TrSpcticides
B. Field
350 kg "C" Compound Fertilizer (6-18-5)
250 kg CAN Fertilizer
C. Grading
Timber, baling paper, Hessian cloth, twine
17 Nurse`rYe`ed-Ted  size 8l;mfor1 ha of field plantings
i.e. 8,500 plants/ha.



76                                               Table 7-4(d)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Typical Farm Budget - Karonga Maize Farmer
(M)
Without Project                                  With Projec _t
Income                                             Income
per                                                per
Crop                       Crop Area    Labor    Net Income    Manday          Crop Area    Labor    Net Income    Manday
Maize, local                  0.8           90          37.20       0.41          0.2          22           9.30        0.42
Maize, comp                   ---         ---          ---          ---           0.6          78         33.51         0.43
Cotton                        0.6         131           64.28       0.49          0.6         131         64.28         0.49
Groundnuts                    0.1           18           4.28       0.24          0.1          18          4.28        0.24
Others                        0.1          12          ------                     0.1          12        ---
Net farming                   1.6         251          105.76       ---           1.6         261        111.37
Net income/manday             ---         ---            0.42       ---           ---          ---         0.43
Per capita income             ---         ---           18.13       ---           ---         ---         18.56         ---
Value of Subsistence          ---         ---           44          ---           ---         ---         44            ---
Net cash                      ---         ---           61.76       ---           ---         ---         67.37         ---
Assumptions: (1) Total farm labor available 540 mandays per year.
(2) Family size 6
(3) Farmer retains 600 kg maize, all groundnuts and all vegetables and other crops.
(4) With project adopts improved crop husbandry practices for maize only.
Incentives to Farmers: (1) Incremental gross income          28.8
(2) Incremental farmers cost        23.19
Ratio (2):(1)                1.24
June 25, 1981



77
Table T-4(e)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Typical Farm Budget - Karonga Rice Farmer
Without Project                                          With Project(5)
Income                                                   Income
per                                                      per
Crop                     Crop Area      Labor      Net Income       Manday       Crop Area        Labor      Net Income      Manday
ha         Mandays                                      ha          Mandays
Rice                         1.2        206           183.95         0.89            1.2          234           231.37         0.99
Maize                        0.1          11            4.55         0.41            0.1           13             5.59         0.43
Cassava                      0.15         8             2.48         0.31           0.15             8           2.48         0.31
Groundnuts                   --         --            --             - -                           --
Others                       0.05       -- -                         --             0.05           -           --
Net Farming                  1.5        225           190.98                        1.5           255          239.44
Net Income/Manday                                       0.85                                                     0.94
Per Capita Income                                     31.83                                                     39.91
Value of Subsistence                                  49.24                                                     49.24
Net Cash                                             141.74                                                    190.20
Assumptions: (1) Total farm labor available 540 mandays per year.
(2) Family size 6
(3) Farmer retains 300 kg rice; 300 kg maize; 500 kg cassava, all vegetables i.e. 150 kg vegetables.
(4) Cassava yield 1000 kg from 0.15 ha plot.
(5) Both rice and maize are improved in with project table.
Incentives to Farmers:
(1) Incremental gross income          100.8
(2) Incremental farmers cost           52.42
Ratio (2):(1)                     1.93
June 25, 1981



78
Table T-4(f)
MALAW I
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Typical Farm Budget - Chitipa Maize Farmer
Without Proiect                _With Pro ject 4
Income                                                   Inccrme
per                                                     per
Crop                     Crop Area       Labor      Net Income       Manday        Crop Area       Labor      Net Inc)me       Mancs
lia        Manday                                        ha         Manday
Maize, Local                 2.2         246           142.16         0.58            1.6            179        112.8D          0.63
Maize, coMposite             0.2          26            2C.52         0.,79           0.4             52         41.04          0.79
Maize, Hybred                --          --            --             --              0.4             60         52.56          0.88
Groundnuts                   0.1          19            11.11         0.58            0.1             20         14,35           0.72
Others, Beans                0.1          12             4.18         0.35            0.1             14          6.78           0.'o)
Net Farming                  2.6         303          177.97                          2.6            325        227.5;
Net Income Manday                                        0.59                                                     0.7C
Per Capita Income                                      29.66                                                     37.92
Value of Subsistence                                    54.40                                                    54.40
Net Cash                                              123.57                                                    173.17
Assumptions: (1) Total farm labor available 540 mandays De: year.
(2) Family size 6.
(3) Farm retains 600 kg of local maize; 40 kg of groundnuts and 40 kg beans and vegetables.
(4) All crops are improved
Incentives to Far-mers:  (1) Incremental gross income           87.6
(2) Incrermental farmers cost        50.79
Ratio (2):(l)                  1.73
June 25, 1981



Table T-4(g)
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Budget For Livestock Owner
(MK)
Without-Project           With-Project
Revenue from Sales of:
Feeder                                       17.2                    24.2
Slaughter                                    26.9                    32.8
Cull                                         54.0                    81.6
Sub-Total                                  98.1                   138.6
Sale of Dead Cattle                             20.0                    14.5
Milk Sales                                      42.1                    50.9
TOTAL Revenue                             150.2                   204.0
Production Costs
Veterinary Service Fee                           5.0                     5.0
Medicine and Supplements                         2.0                    12.0
Net Revenue                                    143.2                   187.0
Mandays                                        119.7                   129.0
Return Per Manday                                1.20                    1.45
February 1981



80
Table T-5
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Credit Fund Cash Flow
-mk-
- _________ _____ ______.____ Phase III -----------
Fiscal Year      1980/81           1981/82           1982/83           1983/84           1984/85           L985/86
Balance Brought Borrward          54,306           188,000            64,904            19,160               -
Withdrawal of Funds 1/                             125,000
Inflow
Loan Repayannts
Seasonal                                        196,650           216,315           280,393           347,829           425,504
Medium Term                    26,544            29,021            34,226            39,248            50,429             70,164
Inttese6t (on bank balance) 2/    15,000            10,000             7,259             6,713             7,520             9,543
Bulk buying Surplus                 7,500             7,500             8,200            10,540            13,023            14,325
Total Inflow                  400,00 3/        306,171           330,904           356,054           418,801           519,536
Outflow
Seasonal Loans                180,000           198,000           256,653           318,379           389,891           472,504
Medium-Term Loans              32,000            43,267            55,091            69,461            34,839             94,358
Total Outflow                 212,000           241,267           311,744           387,840           474,730           566,862
Cumulative Inflow (Outflow)      188,000            64,904            19,160            (31,786)         (55,929)          (L7,326)
Replacement of Funds                                                                    31,786 4/         55,929 4/         47,326 4/
1/ Malawi Government intends to take out MK 125,000 from the credit fund.
2/  At 5  of average balance - mission estimate, except for 1980/81,supplied by KCRDP.
3/ This was the balamce as of September 30, 1980, after credit repayment but before credit loans.
4/ Government would replace part of MN 125,000 withdrawn in 1981.
February 9, 1981



81
Table T-A
MALAWI
NATIO1NAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(NRDP) PRASE III PROJECT
Key Indicators
Base Year
Unit            1981/82           1982/83           1983/84           1984185
Yr.l              Yr.2              Yr.3              Yr.4
Credit 1/
Seasonal Inputs
Sulphate of Ammonia          mt                720               858               995             1,133
Compound 20:20:0             mt                151               199               246               294
Rice Seed                    mt                286               298               310               323
Maize Seed                   at                 21                30                39                47
Groundnut Seed               Mt                102               105               108               111
Cotton Insecticide - pkgs   ha                 200               225               250               275
Tobacco-Fertilizers &
Inputs                   acres               -                  50                50                50
Value Seasonal Credit 2/  Mu            180,000           212,110            239,203           266,301
Medium-Term Items
Value Medium-Term Credit2/MK             39,300            45,500             52,200            57,900
Incremental Area 3/
Raronga
Maize                       ha                -                 100               200               300
Rainfed Rice 4/             ha                -                 200               400               600
Cotton                      ha                -                  25                50                75
Chitipa
Maize                       ha                 -                250               500               750
Groundnuts                  ha                -                  50               100               150
Beans                       ha                -                  50               100               150
Tobacco                    acre               -                  50                50                50
Tra inin
Farmers                     no.              800              1,200             1 500             1, 00
Field Assistants            no.              Inn                100               100               100
F~Cre.stiy_
Reserves                    no.                                                     3                 4
Plantation                  ha.                                                   150               150
Completed Construction
Staff Houses 5/              no.                57                54                 8                 2
Offices/Lab                  no.                 1                 4                 2
Training Center              no.                -                  I                -
ADMARC - Input Stores        no.                 1                 1                 1                 2
Marketing Shed      no.                1                - I
Health - Subcenter            no.               -                  I                -
Maternity  Center  no.                 1                 1                -
Livestock Dips - New         no.                 1                 2
Improved   no.               -                  15                15                13
Boreholes                    no.                 5                 5                12                 8
1/  All figures for credit from 1982/83 - 1984/85 are total credit amounts.  Incremental figures, attributable
to Phase III only, can be derived by substracting the base year figure for 1981/82 from the figure for the
project year.
2/ 1980/81 prices. To bring to current terms, inflate by 10% per annum.
3/  During supervision, incremental areas actually affected by Phase III of the Project would be derived by taking
incremental inputs purchased on credit (see fn. I for calculation of increment) and dividing by recommended
packages (see Table 5(c) for packages).
4/ Grown to Faya.
5/ Excludes traditional houses.
April 8, 1981






82
MALAWI                                                                                                                        Table  T-7
YATIOYAI RUIRAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(NRDP) PHiASE 1II PROJECT
-a,rrnae- C C-h FOr-   araraa   Pacer  ITI  I/
Y-ar 1      Year 2      Yea  3      Yea  4      Year Y      Year 6      Year P      Yea  8       Year 9      Y,eat 10   Ye-r 11   Yea  12   Year 13   Y-a  14    Pea  1Y    Year 16    Ye-  17   Yea  08                      Year 19    Year 20    Yea  21   Yaar 22
1981/82    1982/8       093 F8    -7894/8Y   -1985/6   T1986/T87   1-98-7788   -19-87/89   -1-969/9 -    0992/-90    09-1/92   7992/93    1 99--37           19q4/95   -1g9-5796    -9896/79-7  1i997/98- i -9 g88/99    1899/2-00    -200010ro-   2o-1/02    7002/03
Ca-h If
IDA Disbar--et 2/                   000      1,200       1,400        1,050         900          80                                                    -6 -                                                           -6-------                                                                  
ADARP0C  r-Uit3/                     -            1           3           5            6           6          6           6           6           6           6666666666                                                                                                                                6
Credit Pand Surplus                  18          08          21          29          29          31         31          31           31          31          31          11          31           31          31          31           31          31            31           31           31          30
F-retry Reve-s   Y/                ___       -- -_                     _Z         __:          --                        -_=         _         -             70         139         039          70           ----70                                                         039         139           78
T.t.1 Yeah EnfYaw               018       1,309       1,424       1,080         935          117         37          37          31          37         007         176         076         1087          37           37          37          37           107          076          176         107
Cash OutflYea
Phase III C sets 6/              1,981       1,811       1,007          748         704         704        704         524          704         704         704         124         704         704          7Y4         524         704          704          704           524         704          704
S-rvfilg  8 lIDA Credit              -            2          11          22          30          36         37          37           37          37          49          49)         49          49           49          49          49           49           49           148         148          148
TaCal Cash Outflaw            1.981       1,812       1,018          7 78        794         740        741         501         741         741         7583        173          703         753         703         573          7Y3         753           733          672          887         852
Ret Infisa (eatflew)i           (1,763)        (499)        476         317         201        (623)      (784)       (574)       (704)        (704)       (646)       (397)       (077)       (646)        (716)       (036)       (716)        (716)        (646)         (496)       (676)       (741)
1t  Inrarr-t terra, asetaing a-  ares   inflation rate  f  0 parcet up to 19685/86 and held ...eta-t thereafte.t
2/  Ur-  disburnceat schedule  (Tahie    ), with Phase 00 disbrse-te  a-d Survy Unit  -ests ded.cted.
3/i  At 45. cC catt.e p-rh-s  price, ,d,ich repre-ts   --erge ADMARY prafit ease peat 5years  (1975-1979) cc parh-s  price
4/  Ure  iateret an bath aceaet plus  walk bey lng3-aplan.
5/  Urs   -alt  at peles ed f-clus.  at, Mi 13.76/m   (curet price).
6/  lE.lading survys aed  tatistIc, anit, assurd ta he financd  eder a  -b-nqaert preJect,  -d sat diretly asa-tcCd ta thIs  ct
Apr00 7, 1981






83                                 MALAWI
aoronga-Chitipa Rural Development Project                                                      Table T-8(a)
Economic Costs for Crops Component . These lITI
Year I      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6      Year 7       Year 8       Year 9       Year 10       Year 11-12       Year 13-14        Year 15-16      Year 17-18       Year 19-20
Project Itvestment & Recurrent Costs 1/
E.t-sion - K-aronga                           217.3        203.5        31.5        31.5          31.5         31.5         31.5         31.5         31.5        31.5             31.5             31.5             31.5             31.5             31,5
Fatenrion - Chitipa                           208.7        144.6        23.7        23.7          23.7         23.7         23.7         23.7         23.7        23.7             23.7             23.7             23.7             23.7             23.7
Training 2/                                   237.7        143.1        39.3        39.3          39.3         39.3         39.3         39.3         39.3        39.3             39.3             39.3             39.3             39.3             39.3
Credit Secticn                                114.5         89.2        26.7        28.0          26.4         26.4         26.4         26.4         26.4        26.4             26.4             26.4             26.4             26.4             26.4
Marsktiog                                      56.3         30.4        26.5         50.5           9.2          9.2         9.2          9.2          9.2          9.2             9.2              9.2               9.2             9.2              9.2
Land Husbandry                                 62.0          8.7         8.7         8.7            8.7         8.7          9.7          8.7          8.7         8.7              8.7              8.7              8.7              8.7              8.7
Project Administration  /                      58,0         25.3        11.3         9.2           9.2          9.2          9.2          9.2          9.2         9.2              9.2              9.2              9.2              9.2              9.2
Replac.eent - Vehlclos                                                                           134.8        134.8          -            -          134.8       134.8              -              134.8               -             134.8              -
Total Project Iovestmcnt                   954.5        644.8      167.7        190.9         282.8        282.8        148.0       148.0        282.8        282.8           148.0             282.8            148.0           282.8            148.0
GO-Pens Incremenotal Cost                    -           79.8       158.3       243.2         333.3        334.4        335.7        336.9       338.2        339.4           339.4             339.4            339.4            339.4            339.4
Total Economic Costs                     954.3        723.6      326.0        434.1         616.1        616.1       483.7        484.9        621.0        622.2           487.4            622.2             487.4           622.2            487.4
j/   Labor costed at half official  ninu=w wage, or at Mt 25/day.  Labor component estimated at 207. of  ivil works.  All  Ivil works increased by real costs (by difference
between general inflation rate sad price co-tingeooiea allawed for ciil works. All civil works sod vahicles in-lsde 107. physical ontingency.
2/   857. of total training  osts allo ated to agricultural dewelop-ent.  The repaining 152 would be devoted to pilot traicing (tobacco, livestock) arm to classes  in
_trrit-on sad home economies, i.e., to oon-quqatifiable benefits.
3/  60  of proje t administration allo ated to sgri-ultural activities; recaioder to livescok or to coeposentr  with n-n-quantifiable benefits.
February 7, 2981






84
Table T-8(b)
MALAWI
KARONGA-CHITIPA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PEASE III
Economic Farmgate Value - Rice
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Rice (Thai, milled 5% broken
Bangkok FOB) US$/MT'             586        598        611        615        619        623        627       631
MK/MT ,1           457        466        476        480        483        486       489        492
Thai milled 20% broken
FOB Bangkok 2/                   366        373        381        384        386        389        391        393
Add: Expenses Bangkok - DSM          98         98         98         98         98         98         98         98
DSM-Zambia            75         75         75         75         75         75         75         75
Malawi Rice 2/ For Zambia            539        546        554       557        559        562        564        566
Less: Transport Chipoka-Zambia    i00           100       100        100        100        100        100        100
Rice,FOB Chipoka, paddy
equivalent 3/               294        399        304        306        308       310        311        313
Less: Administration, Overheads,
Milling                     101        101        101        101        101        101        101       101
Transport Chipoka-Karonga    68           68         68         68         68         68         68         68
Export Parity Price -
Farmgate Value              125        130        135        137        139        141        142       144
1/ At Us$1 = .78.
Z/ Assuming Malawi milled competitive with Thai 20% broken, at 80% of price for 5% broken.
3/ At 67% conversion paddy to riceo
February 19, 1981






85                          Table T-8(c)
MAIAWI
KARONGA-CHITIPA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Farmgate Value: Maize: Karonga and Chitipa
(based on weighted import/export parity price)
1983   1984    1985    1936    1987    1988    1989    1990
1. Export
Maize (US No.2 yellow
FOB Gulf Ports)
US$/MT                        208    213       219      220     221      223      224      225
MK/MT                         162    166       171      172     172      174      175      176
Less: Ocean Freight                 46     46       46       46       46      46       46       46
Post Charges                 22      22       22      22       22       22       22       22
Railage,Beira to
Limbe                       5       5        5       5        5        5        5       5
Transport Limbe
to Chipoka                 11      11      11       11       11       11      11       11
Sub-Total                 84      84      84       84       84       84      84       84
Export Value
Chipoka                    78      82      87       88       88       90       91      92
2. Import
Maize FOB Gulf MK/MT                 162    166      171      172      172      174     175      176
Add: Same Items as
Above                      84      84       84      84       84       84       84      84
Import Value
Chipoka                   246    250      255      256      256      258     259      260
Weighted Import/Export Value 1/
Chipoka                            179    183      188      189      189     191      192      193
Add: 2/ Transport Chipoka
- Karonga                42      42       42      42       42       42      42       42
Buying, Admini-
stration,Over-
head                     25      25       25      25       25       25       25      25
Farmgate Value,
Karonga MK/MT           246    250       255     256      256      258      259     260
Less: 3/Transport Chitipa-
Karonga                  25      25       25      25       25       25       25      25
Buying, Admini-
stration,Over-
head                     25      25       25      25       25       25       25      25
Farmgate Value,
Chitipa 1K/MT           196    200       205     206      206      208      209     210
1/  Weights: 6:4 import price: export price, reflecting past 10 years.
2/ For maize consumed in Karonga through local markets or subsistence which would substitute for
maize transported from the Central region (Karonga is a maize deficit aren).
3/ For maize transported from Chitipa to Karonga (Chitipa is a surplus area.).
February 19, 1981



86
rable T-8(d,
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE III
Economic Farmgate Value: Cotton
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      19 79      1990 - 20(0
FOB Price mk/mt                                     1,970    2,080   2,200         2,212     2,224     2,236     2,2'88        2,2C0
Less: Transport to Port
Changes to Karonga                              295       295      295        295        295       295       2':5         295
Value of Lint at Karonga                            1,675    1,785   1L,905        1,917    1,929    1,941    1,953            1,955
Value By-Products mk/mt                                163       172      181        182       183       184       le15          137
Le--s: Transport                                        88        88       88         88        88        88         18           38
Value By-Products at
Karonga                                               75        84       93         94        95        96        97            91
Value of Seed Cotton/k
33% lint, 67% by-product                            603       645      691         696       700       705       70            7:5
Less: Buying, Ginning,
Selling, Admin., etc.                           152       152      152        152       152        152       15?         2I
Farmgate Value, Export
Parity mk/mt                                        451       493       539        544       548       553       557           5E3
Import Parity P ice- Cotton
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1987'     1990 - 2M30C
Price                                               1,990     2,080   2,200        2,212     2,224     2,236     2,24'8        2,260
Add: Transport Port Charges
to Lilongwe                                      208       208      208        208       208        208       20i          203
Value of Lint at Lilongwe                           2,178    2,288   2,408         2,420    2,432    2,444       2,45Y         2,463
Value of By-Products                                   163       172      181        182       183       184       18'1          18
Value of Seed Cotton at Lilongwe
331int, 67 by-product                             827       870      916        921       925       930        93t.         94(0
Less: Transport Karonga to Lilongwe
Ginning, Selling, etc.                          240       240      240        240       240       240       24(           240'
Import Parity                                         587        630      676        681       685       690       694          70(
Weighted Average: 25%
import, 75% export (mk/mt)                          485       527      573         578       582       587       591          597
April 29, 1981



87
Table T-8(e)
:ATIO0 AL  PR8AL nEV-  0p!NT PRCOCtM  ('7RDP) PEASE I:I PROJECT
Eccnomic Benefits - Crops
(MK '000)
PY2       V 3        PY4        PY5        PY6        PY7        PY8        PY9           PT 10-20
Crop Year        9-82/83   1.983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91 - ZOCO/Ol
Pice - Karonga
Incremental Production  MT    160          320        480       640        640        640        640        640            640
Farngate Value MS/M1            125        130        135        137       139        141        142        144            144
Value (MR '000)               20.0       41.6       64.8       87.7      89.0       90.2       90.9       92.2           92.2
Maize - Karonga
Incremental Production          140        280        420        560       560        560        560        560            560
sarmgate Value                  246        240        255        256       256        258        259        260            260
Value                         34.4       70.0     107.1      143.4      143.4      144.5      145.0      145.6          145.6
Maize - Chitipa
Incremental Production          640      1,320     2,301      2,880      2,880      2,880      2,880      2,880          2,880
Farmgate Value                  196        200        205       206        206        208        209        210 -          210
Value                        125.4      264.0     430.7      593.3      593.3      599.0      601.9      604.8          604.8
Cotton - Karonga
Incremencal Production           17         35         52         70        70         70         70         70             70
7ar=gate Value                  485        527        573        578       582        587        591        597            597
Value                          8.2       18.4       29.3      40.5       40.7       41.1       41.3        4.8            4.8
Groundnuts - Chit ia
Incremental Production           29         60         94       130        130        130        130        130            130
Far3gate Value 2/               300        300        300        300       300        300        300        300            300
Value                          8.7       18.0       28.2       39.0      39.0       39.0       39.0       39.0           39.0
Beans - ChitiDa
Incremental Production           72        150        232        320       320        320        320        320            320
Farmgate Value 3/               380        380        380        380       380        380        380        380            380
Value                         27.4       57.0       88.2     121.6      121.6      121.6      121.6      121.6          121.6
TOTAL VALUE                     224.1      469.0      748.8   1,025.5   1,027.0   1,035.4   1,039.7   1,008.0            1,008.0
Less Value - Cassava 1/          15.4       30.7       46.5       61.7      61.7       61.7       61.7       61.7           61.7
Net Incremental Value
(Benefits)               208.7      438.3      702.3      963.8      965.3      973.7     978.0      946.3           946.3
1/  Assuming opportunity cost of incremental acreage is value of cassava produced at a yield of 550 kg/ha and 5.St/kg for Chitipa
and 7.05/kg for Karonga (local market prices).
2/  30t/kg taken an local market price (Chitipa boma prices varied widely  in 1978/79 between 16t/kg and 80t/kg).
_/  38t/kg taken as average market price in 1978/79.
February 6, 1981



88
'23972  lLD9738 18C hZ1                         Table  T-18(f)
I         2          3         4           5        9          7          82                   13         11         12 13      3         6         25-        16         "7        a2         22     _2
L14021432 2426.334,                      13.2        3.6       2.t        2.1       2.1       2.1        2.1       2.1        :1         2.1       2-1        2.1       2.1        2.1        2.1       2.1        2.21        .          A 2      3.1
32222*2 4432,22                          11.6     119.3       32.6      321.4      23.2      23.2       23.2      23.2       21.2      23.2       23.2       23.2      23.2       23.2       23.2      23.2       23.2      :!1.2      23.2       23.1
26o-6                                    I A42112*.1242n  12.3    6I3  2 2  2.3     2 2                   1        2          2.3       2.2        2.3        2.2       2.3        2.9        2.3       2.3        2.3        .3        2.3        2.
920lao..1  3626442. V                     -          -         -          -         3.2       -          -         -          6.2        -         .                    6.I        -                    _          6.2
339-2 Pr.3*.r 923*23 939                Wi      3               129a ,                              F in                  in        in 3.6     Yi7.       27        33.       i7.n       F7i5        7.i      3i         .6         22.6       27,
I        2         3         4           5         6          7          82                  12         11         12        23          16        93 14                  17       13         23         21
22-2 3222 (286.322                     46.,00   46,230   46,4621    ',693       46,927    47,162    47,391    41,634    42,273   48,212    42.352         482394   42,837    49.021  49.33:.7 31,3    69,221                2 1,27 1   33,0331  2, i22
28262*39323  4.ooth 6.32  '.              0.3      3.3       0.3       3.3         2.3        2.3        3.3       2.3        2.3      3.3        2.3       2.3        2.3         2.3          53      2.3        2.2      30.         2 .2       1.
-h99*8223                                   8         2        3          3          3          9          2         3          2         3         a           2         9          3          2         3          2                    3          2
*1d 93-                                 3,662    3,692    3,382    3,335         3, 374     2,73       3,3792    3,8121      ,830    3,8189     3,292      3,882     3,933       3,324      3,946      ,966      3,86       .23.      4,031      4.2 ,46
322- p.. 3.2  2       63                  122      423       12         1225       I22        123        123       125        223      1233       I22        12        123          232      215        423        I22       22         1251        3
T-lI   MT 029.6  2. 322.                  462      462       433       467         463        472       424        476        43       401        4 43         86      4"a         442       4'3        499        496        30        531         06
T-23.  V6223.   K 4/3       2              34      423       294 186    l23        16         239        22        2          191      212        234         264      295        126         32 1      198        199       20         201         02
.222d           4.r3)                  46,333    46,230   46,232     6,372      42,343    472916    44,581       4,3414   50.132   52,D42      52,292      24,012   55,362    533,746    5.165    593,623    61,102    6: ,63        64,223    93,12
I62623232 23223h  W* e                    0.5      0.6       2.8        3.0        1.2        2.4        1.6       2.3        2.2      2.3        2.9         2.5      2.3         3.3       2.3        2.3        2.3       2.         2.2        : .5
32223. 3e2.                               8 9        .2      4.4        9.32       3.4        4.         9.2       3.3        9.0      3.2        3.2         3.2      3.2         3.2        3.0       9.2        9.2        9.2       4.2         .1
* 29h22 0226*. O3,660    3.792    3,921                              4,033       4.167      4.312     4,313      .44 4,      3123    4,631       ,742      4,362    4,983        3.22      32,233     3,346      3,32      1,631      1,32       5, 22
C1113 pw   2.  39132                      125      126       128       123        1232        235       133         2313 233                      235         433      233         333        2332      433        233       2          2155       133 
24-2. 69 2f3te.   I 3232                  442      43        3 500      324        550        392       530        633        344      623        643        434       673         323       323        224        342       332        70       796. i
23922 3.2       S.2423/.3                 234      191.3     222.2     229.6       222.3      232.3     236.2      233.3      244.5   213.8       236 .1      22.2    33.2         233.3     22.7       299.       2972.     322.4      312.3       43.6
r_m .6*3.I.t. W m                         -          6        14        23          32         44        4          5 51       34       583        63         42        34          24        61         92         42        10.       22 
aLys of rut,82 
V*23* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~;eoi 326.23c                                                                                                                                                            223i
2        2         3         2.          5         6 3  4                2         3                     2         12        13                                          17 23  6  49 27                 2
e292. *tsi                           46.000   44.222   46.461    44,493       46,927    43,162    42,391    42,633Y42,373 43,222             4          46       49,233       49 126    49 3217    46,53     43,321    320  32    30,322    50.57
* 466*66.3 2..1*.                    22.433   12,343   23.593    10,644       1,699    10,3             7    10,861   12,39L3   2,972    22,224    2,9on          21.233      22.292    224        22.323    22.333    2316   12,473    11,332
2.: 22.Z of ft2.)
2694.321632 12. 326 2...) f   0'      1.940    219330   12,63      2,423       2,333      2.9       4,3          309      2.29    2,223       2,.33      2,236     2,223      2,372      2,332      2,091 .2  2,2        2,132      2.223     2.233
226 262 1/42*3)
Ialt. *6      2137031.w  3020         329.8    332.3    333.2      334.9       3336.      33831     333.8      342,3      342      34.9       34.6       342.5     353.3       351.3     353.3      351.1      357.1     331.0    394.9       32,.6
hr.d 96..                           46.000   46,230   46,307    46,792    43,343    43,691    48,587    43,364    50,32   31,409    32,694              54,012   55,332      36,746   53,165    39,329    32,129    62,1i7   624,23    653809
IC0wlh Ute o 1>-)
* 32.09369.12 24..F *                10.438   13,336   10.233     1.3216       3,283      32        3,763      4,62.      9,809   23,223     23.223    43,532    31,796       22,223    21,342    11.623    22,912    13, ! 4    22.523    12.933
(.t63 7.   4292                     32 I.6   13,4      31.32     24.6        22.,      23.6       22.4       24.3       29.2     32.5       19.5      43.5       23.5       33.3       19.5       19.5      1923.5     2  3       195       19.5
2*2 292o. p.r ll2                    26195   127        139       291         193        235       197        200       2130      200        200       200 2203 02                                  2        2.           2       222        222
282333261322 23 92.rs  °°°'           I,940    1,936    1.934      1,134       2.626      1.925     1,924      2,923      2.912    2,235      2,053    2t,30       2.159       2,213     2,268      2,323     2,322      2,. 3      2,334     2,262
3.2 3.24  25         OPWL I9 t L70/ 000 632!   329,3    329.3    3282.  3321.3  322.3     333.2     321.2      322.3      932.5    -40.9      349.4    236.1         363         336        3896      393        42 a        5        4326      43
34-2..3;9l 3L1  2t4k (2Y22262           -      Q.3) (3.52.1        24)         (63.6)    (30.9)    (123.3)     4.21      (2.3)    24.32         2.3         9.6       17          24       32          23        43          3         62        73
1/   l 3A32 of  6... 212 *        3I26293103226322443*3.
jI 232 o1  p,o2.r6 *                 ll92*24 d 23*    323 3232*. 2123332 323
r y3 14, 1342



89
KARO30A-CIIITIPA CORAL. DYOETOPREY0 PROJECT -PHACE III
Roo oCoats cud Bene.fit.s-Fo t'tY
Yr. I   Yr. 2   Yr. 3   Or. 4   Yr  3 YCr  8   Yr-7-9   Yr.  O   Yr. IT   Yr.12-13    Yr. 14   Yr. 15-17   CrB                        Yr   9   Cr    0-21   Yr. 22   Cr2-5            C2        r   7 C.82              r38      C3-S         C3        rS      r3-7C3
Capital Costs                    .3      31.8      06.6     2 96   .             -         -         -         -            -         -                                   
Op-reirg Cast                     -         -      13.3     19.8      6.1       7.0       7.6      7.8        7.8          7.6       7.R           7.8        7.8      7.8           7.8        7.8          7.8       7.8       7.0          7.8       7.8         7.8        7.8       7.8       7.8    3.8
Repl---co  Cools                                     -        -         -        .9        -         .9        -            -          .9           -          .9       -              -         .9           -          .9       -            -          .9          -          .9       -         .        -
Projec  AdriniC-tra -,  I/   3.8          1.7        .6       .6        .         8         . .6  .6        .8 .6 .6 .6 .6                                                            .8        .R            .8, .6    .E.                    .E         .6          .    .6   .6             .6   .6
Tota  Cost                  0.1       73.5     CC.6     55.8       8.7      9.3        8.4      9.3       8.4          8.4        9.3           8.4       9.3       8.4           8.4       9.3          8.6        9.3      8.4          8.4        0.0         8.4        9.3      8.4        8.4     C.4
Benrfits
VuRe of Wood Pro
iSOAch                          -        -         -        .        -         -         -        -       47.8         47.6         -             -          -      47.6          47.8               -           -           38.8         38.8         -           -          -      31.7       31.7 
635 h.-                                  -         -        -                                                          47.8_    47.8-                              -_-            43.6      47J. 6                              -         38.6       38.8          ---                          31.7   33.0
Toed1 Vou.1-                                     -         -        -                                    47.6         85.2      47.86                             47.6           95.2      47.86                            36.8         77.8       38.8          .                 31.7      83.6   31.7
1/  Al 54. at total project  -EtoCCl             ots.
A/ Assorog MAI oC 13 m3/he Io first tao -ct-i-e: 12 n3/As Zod -Cppire; l3/he third caprice cattaioo    Per 150 ha pleotod the. ytelds woud Asa   olw:    stoeic    20,250 u3
ist coppice-         20,250 sr3
2nd coppice          16.500 stO
3rd c-ppire          13.500 u3; Assumd to he rut eve  thre   year period.
FcAb-ery 19, 1981






90
Table T-8(h)
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE III PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits: Total Project
PERIODS         C.TOT        B .TDT
1            1058.40          0.00
2             876,7()       213.60
3             447.10        456.40(
4             519.80        734.20
5             650.30        996.2'0
6             652.90       1020.20
7             520.00       1038.40
8             527,20       1047.00
9             657,00       1039.00
10            658.90       1042.60
11            523.00       1099.40
12            529.20       1151.60
13            658.00       1170.00
14            658.90       1136.20
15            523.0()      1107.00
16            529.20       11.16.20
17            658.00       i139.20
18            656090       1148.40
19            523.00       1223, .60
20-21         523.00       223222')
22            523.90       2184.60
23-25         523.00       2137.00
26            523.90      '2137.00
27            523.00       2175.80
28-29         523.00       2214,60
30            523.90       2175.80
31-33         523.00       2137.00
34            523.90      2;1. 37. 00
35            523.00()    '21 (.7 . 0
36-37         523.00         O0. 2040
38            523.00       2168.70






IBRD 15611
E   -                              @                MsCH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19S1
/  [,>ld        2<                                       ~~~~MALAWI                 
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
8 ~~ f \t;Z t~~~NRDP) PHASE iII PROJECT
I   X        V     ts          X      W             \                        DG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUND)ARIESOFAGRiCLILTURiALLlEVELOPMENTDIV%SIDNS
/   z   \   *           %\n          t  zZ             ED    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADD HEAOOUARTERS
PHRPOSED PIWJECT AREA
J     <  Lvg to XCh'yeto    tEXISTINsE '2AORAGHICULTUREPROJEtTAREAS
wOTHERA9ENCIESFINANCIA LASSISTANCE
/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,,                                             /     / XT~ AG'E XU      NCALSS TN
X~~~~~~  . DA                           ,                                _____  PRINGt~P4L RLtADS;
Z   A    M t B8          A                                              *1zmaC    /         j                ILWKOAY   fES 
|;or5wAS%\                 L -)6  itas sH                     AS17
R---
| ~   ~     ? A ( /i o A~             _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _                                                f  
SoT ARIC                 9            0   69 C0                        F 20         0             14D 
6ISOMETR            c k
.           1 J                           S     ;      )~~~~~~4                         PRIN At AhADS
,12'                                   .Q- _                                                                      RA713L ,%MDIOUE SF<\ 0B
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M REL0l ZEH  R3 ME5A i                                                          Q U
ESOLTHATRC//       , _2jO 4t6D e, fD10   D   6                          ,                         3
L  ~ ~ ~~~ :        r                 FLETER5                                    > EEARA    1~~~C11SIE.'






3300                   32' 33                                                                         wOo'                                  -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD15612
MAt A W
§N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K                                                                                                               Vt,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~AP     A'  A
NATIO,NAL:RURAL: DEVELOPMENT   ( PRORAM                                                                     ZMI
Mwamk,,rbw~   .   f  N                                                                                                         IN'
14  (  ,~~~~~~~~~~~>-g  /  P  A                                                                .                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAWIK
R.  -                                                                       r'                                                                                         '
-                             I~~~~~~~~~C  
whin9 Camter ~   ~       ~      Mer,4>......OU
PO      dodBokootooa,nyo
Secodly~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7Ksm                                                                                                                                                oboov.r.'o f f
t  Aifialds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 0 5WOntep0 tO
9'                                                                                                                   obBe&oo,ooAHOWn.'o
1KM   Io'pcco Pilo Sdoen                              *1                              1            -M-d
r  $bro,P                                                        :/                                  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         0 00~~~~~~~~U       
Proposed    1   -                                    5/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  o



