Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3112a-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
PHASE III OF THE
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(KARONGA-CHITIPA)
September 22, 1981
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =               Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00                =               MK 0.78
MK 1.00                =               US$1.28
(As the Malawi Kwacha is officially valued at a fixed rate of MK 1.00 to
SDR 0.9487, the US$/MK exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions in
this report were made at US$1.00 to MK 0.78, which is close to the recent
exchange).
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =       3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m3)             =       35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                 =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               =       0.62 miles
1 square kilometers (sq.km)   =        0.39 square miles
1 centimeter (cm)              =       0.4 inches
ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC               =  Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ARD                  =  Agricultural Research Department
CEU                  =  Central Evaluation Unit
DEVPOL               =  "Statement of Development Policies 1971-80"
INDEBANK             =  Investment and Development Bank
KRDP                 =  Karonga Rural Development Project
MOA                  =  Ministry of Agriculture
NRDP                 =  National Rural Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PHASE III
(Karonga-Chitipa)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                  Republic of Malawi
Loan Amount:              SDR 6.5 million (US$7.3 million equivalent)
Terms       :             Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:              The proposed project, which would constitute a
third phase of the National Rural Development
Program (NRDP), aims to strengthen project
management capabilities and support further
development of agricultural potential in the
Karonga and Chitipa districts. Project components
would include: (a) strengthening of extension,
training and research programs; (b) expanding
livestock development; (c) promoting burley
tobacco as a smallholder cash crop; (d) providing
marketing facilities and expanding credit
activities to provide greater coverage; (e)
improving the water supply and health facilities
in the project area; (f) improving administration
and evaluation of project activities; and (g)
providing assistance to the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) and the National Statistics
Office (NSO) in data gathering and analysis.  MOA
would have overall responsibility for project
implementation. About 1,200 farmers in Karonga
and 2,000 farmers in Chitipa would benefit
directly from the project. There are no unusual
risks associated with it.
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Estimated Cost:                           -----------------US$000-------------
Local            Foreign           Total
Agric. Extension                           0.5                0.6               1.1
Training                                   0.3                0.3               0.6
Pilot Burley Tobacco                       0.1                0.1               0.2
Research                                   0.2                0.2               0.4
Livestock                                  0.4                0.3               0.7
Credit                                     0.1                0.2               0.3
Marketing                                  0.1                0.1               0.2
Land Husbandry                              -                 0.1               0.1
Forestry                                   0.3                0.2               0.5
Water Facilities                           0.1                0.1               0.2
Health                                     0.2                0.4               0.6
Project Administration                     0.2                0.3               0.5
Central Evaluation Unit                     -                 0.1               0.1
Survey Unit                                0.6                0.6               1.2
Base Costs Estimates                    3.1               3.6               6.7
Physical Contingencies                     0.2                0.3               0.5
Price Contingencies                        0.7                0.7               1.4
Total Project Cost
net of Taxes and Duties                 4.0               4.6               8.6
Financing Plan:
IDA                                 2.7                4.6               7.3
Government                          1-3                 _                1.3
Total net of taxes
and duties                       4.0                4.6               8.6
Estimated Disbursements:                            US$000
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Annual                    0.4      1.9      2.1      1.6      1.1      0.2
Cumulative                0.4      2.3      4.4      6.0      7.1      7.3
Rate of Return:   17 percent
Appraisal Report:  No. 3420-MAI, dated September 9, 1981



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
FOR A PHASE III OF THE NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(KARONGA-CHITIPA)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to thie Republic of Malawi for SDR 6.5 (US$7.3 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance the third phase of the National Rural
Development Program (NRDP).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Malawi" (Report
No. 1677a-MAI) dated September 30, 1977, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on October 10, 1977.   A Basic Economic Mission visited Malawi
May/June 1979; reports resulting from the mission were distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26,1981.   Annex I contains the basic country
data.
3.           With a population of 5.7 million (1978) and an area of about
118,500 sq km, Malawi is relatively densely populated. Its main assets are
moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a climate favorable to
crop production.   Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no known substantial
mineral resources.   Being landlocked, it has to depend on other countries
for access to the sea.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$200 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence, measured against its natural resources,
has been significant.   GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979.   During the same period, real
growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing exceeded 10 percent per
annum and  export  volume  grew at 4.5  percent  per  annum.    A  steadily
increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP at independence to
22 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows of foreign private
and public capital as well as by a significant increase in domestic savings
(from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's success in its development efforts has been due in large
part to the realistic and purposeful policies of the Government. Those for
the period 1971-80 were outlined in the "Statement of Development Policies
1971-80" (DEVPOL) which set out the basic priorities for economic
developnent.
6.             As stated in DEVPOL,  public investment has been intended
primarily to support private efforts in the directly productive sectors
through  provision  of  essential  infrastructure,  public  utilities  and



- 2 -
support services.   In addition, the Government has attached high priority
to investments that assist smallholder agriculture, as about 90 percent of
the population lives in the rural areas and depends on agriculture for its
livelihood.   To  this  end,  the Government  has  undertaken  a number  of
integrated rural development projects in the past, and recently embarked on
the NRDP, an ambitious 20-year program designed eventually to extend
agricultural  services  to  smallholders  countrywide.    The  Government's
decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and related economic
infrastructure, coupled with limited amounts of financial and human
resources, has resulted in slower development of social services such as
health and education.
7.         DEVPOL has now been succeeded by a five-year investment program
beginning  in  1981/82.    The  Government's  priorities  for  the  sectoral
allocation of resources under this program are: 22 percent of total public
investment  expenditure  for  agriculture,  36  percent  for  transport,  10
percent for education, 11 percent for water and health, and 22 percent for
other miscellaneous investments.   These sectoral allocations reflect the
Government's continued emphasis on smallholder development and transport,
and the increased importance it now attaches to manpower development.
'8.             In 1977,  a population census  revealed  that  the country's
population  grew  at  2.9  percent  per  annum  during  the  past  decade.
Projecting the same growth rate for the remainder of the century, Malawis
population would almost double by the year 2000.   This high population
growth rate has important implications for the labor/land ratio. Malawi's
population density,  about 140 persons  per sq km of agricultural  land,
already is among the highest in Africa and by the year 2000, will rise to
265 persons per sq km. Over 35 percent of total land area is classified as
suitable for cultivation and the available arable land area is almost fully
utilized.    The  implications  of  Malawi's  rapid  population  growth  on
expenditures for social services, availability of arable land, dependency
ratio, etc. have been discussed with the Government which, at this time,
opposes active population control measures but permits contraceptives to be
distributed  at  physician-attended  facilities  on demand.   Only about  9
percent of the total population lives in urban areas.   However, with the
diversification of the economy, urban population is increasing by more than
7 percent per annum, in line with the expansion of wage employment
opportunities in the non-agricultural sectors. The population growth issue
is being pursued in discussions with the Government of the findings and
recommendations of the Basic Economic Report and, as appropriate, through
the Bank's sector work and lending operations.
9.        Notwithstanding Malawi's impressive economic performance over the
past 15 years, its economy, heavily dependent on 2 primary commodity
exports (tea and tobacco), has remained highly vulnerable to international
price  fluctuations.    Since  1974,  the  country has  experienced periodic
balance of payments disequilibria of increasing severity due primarily to
(a) rapid escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and
intermediate and capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of
tobacco and tea; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for both
exports and imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion
in Beira and Nacala, and disruptions of overland transport.



-3-
10.          While the Government  successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable, primarily due to a 35 percent
fall in the terms of trade between 1977 and 1980, when export prices fell
18 percent (due mainly to declines in tea and tobacco prices) and import
prices rose about 41 percent.  The petroleum import bill more than doubled
between 1977 and 1980.   The growing trade deficit was exacerbated  by a
doubling of the negative balance for non-factor services, due mainly to
rising  transport  costs.    Malawi's  current  account  deficit  reached  17
percent of GDP in 1978, 19 percent in 1979, and 14 percent in 1980, in
contrast to an 8-9 percent average experienced since independence. Because
capital inflows have not been sufficient to cover the current account
deficits, Malawi has also experienced a drop in foreign exchange reserves.
Between end-1977 and end-1980, gross official reserves fell from the
equivalent of four months to two months of imports.  Over the same period,
net official reserves fell from US$42 million to minus US$41 million.
11.         In the past, the Government has approached the energy problem
through its pricing and tax policies to restrain demand and through
investments aimed at identifying and developing new sources.   Oil imports
have been subject to tariffs of 30 to 60 percent.   The retail prices of
gasoline and diesel have been set at US$0.88 and US$0.80 per liter,
respectively, while their equivalent import prices are US$0.48 and
US$0.45.  In connection with fuelwood, which represents some 80 percent of
the country's domestic energy consumption, the Government has in NRDP II
undertaken to increase wood prices gradually to levels which reflect
production costs. The Government has also launched projects in wood energy
and ethanol production.   At the Government's request,  the Bank plans to
conduct an energy sector study that would survey the available resources,
project future demand and supply, examine alternative sources of energy and
explore possibilities for intersectoral substitution.
12.       Malawi's fiscal position has also seriously deteriorated over the
past two years. From independence through 1974/75, government expenditures
and revenues expanded roughly in line with the increases in GDP; and
deficits  did  not  exceed  8-9  percent  of GDP.   In the  past  two  years,
expenditure growth has outstripped the increase in revenues and the share
of government deficits in GDP averaged 12 percent in 1978/79-1980/81. With
the increased deficits came an increased reliance on domestic borrowing
mainly from the monetary system, and on foreign borrowing, partly on
commercial terms.   At the same time, inflationary pressures grew and the
balance of payments position deteriorated.  Prices rose at an average rate
of 13 percent per annum in 1979-1980.
13.          Faced with these problems, the Government in 1979 initiated a
series of short-term corrective measures culminating in a two and a half
year stand-by arrangement with the IMF amounting to US$32.9 million (SDR
26.3 million).   Malawi also obtained US$23.8 million (SDR 19.0 million)
from the compensatory financing facility and a US$7.1 million (SDR 5.7



- 4 -
million) loan from the Trust Fund. Unfortunately, a drought and a complete
stoppage of all overland external transport, owing to political unrest in
Mozambique during November and December 1979, forced termination of the
stand-by arrangement as the Government could not meet some of the
performance criteria.
14.          A new two-year arrangement,  drawing on the second to fourth
tranches for US$64.8 million (SDR 49.9 million), was approved in May 1980.
The two-year program, which coincides with Malawi's fiscal years 1981 and
1982, aims at constraining demand and limiting the balance of payments
current account deficit to US$195 million in FY81, and US$169 million in
FY82. The performance criteria involved phased ceilings on total domestic
credit and on net bank credit to the Government and a limit on government
(or government-guaranteed) external borrowing of 1-12 years maturity.
15.            After  successfully  negotiating  the  two-year  IMF  stand-by
arrangement,  the  Government,  in  April  1980,  formally  requested  Bank
assistance for a structural adjustment loan.   The loan was appraised in
September 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors in June 1981.  It
supports the Governments program of economic recovery which is designed to
diversify the export base, encourage efficient import substitution, adjust
incentives and incomes policies, improve the public sector-s financial
performance and strengthen the Government's economic planning and
monitoring  capability.    Foreign  exchange  is  to be used  for essential
imports and counterpart funds are to be used for development purposes in
the government budget.
16.            Because  of  the Government-s limited ability  to mobilize
resources, the sizeable expansion of Malawi's development program over the
past decade has been largely assisted by increased public capital inflows.
The net contribution from foreign official sources to the financing of
public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to about US$103
million in FY79, of which US$23 million were grants.  However, in contrast
with earlier experiences, over 35 percent of the FY79 capital flows were on
commercial terms, which will have a pronounced effect on future debt
servicing.
17.       By the end of 1980, Malawi's external public debt totalled US$800
million, of which US$637 million had been disbursed. Debt service in 1980
amounted to US$64 million, equivalent to about 23 percent of exports of
goods and services.  There has been considerable hardening of the average
terms of lending in the past few years; the average grant element of
official assistance fell from the 80 percent level of 1971-1975, to 48
percent in 1978, 42.5 percent in 1979, and 40.7 in 1980. On the basis of
loans committed by the end of 1980, and on additional capital requirements
for the period 1980-85, Malawi's debt service ratio is projected to reach
24 percent in 1982, and then decline to 16 percent in 1985 (as compared



- 5 -
with 8 percent in 1978, and 12 percent in 1979).   The domestic share of
development expenditures amounted to 22 percent in 1979, and this share is
unlikely to rise in the near future, as the need for recurrent expenditures
for operations and maintenance will absorb the bulk of additional tax
revenues.     Additional   foreign  exchange  will  remain  a  significant
requirement to maintain imports. Hence, external financing will be called
upon to cover a substantial portion of total project costs, including some
local financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
18.          Over the past 15 years, Malawi has received 23 IDA credits
totalling US$257.2 million and six Bank loans totaling US$75.2 million, of
which two were on Third Window terms. Of the total Bank Group assistance,
US$98.2 million (30 percent) was for agriculture, US$45.0 million for
structural adjustment (13 percent), US$37.8 million (11 percent) for power
development, US$73.4 million (22 percent) for education, US$65.0 million
(20 percent) for roads, US$3.0 million (1 percent) for a development
finance company (INDEBANK), and the balance of US$9.0 million (3 percent)
for water supply, technical assistance and to finance feasibility studies
for a pulp mill at Viphya. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on Third
Window terms in June 1976, and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977.
The most recent loan, US$45 million for the first structural adjustment,
was approved on June 25, 1981, and declared effective August 3, 1981.
19.        IFC's investments in Malawi consist of a loan of US$6.0 million
made in 1976 for a textile mill, another of US$9.5 million for sugar
development in 1977, a US$0.6 million equity investment in INDEBANK in
1979, and a US$2.0 million loan to Malawi Hotels Limited for tourism in
1979. A US$262,000 equity investment and a loan of US$1.7 million for the
production of ethanol from molasses were approved on July 29, 1980.   A
summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects are provided in Annex II.    Project implementation has
been fully satisfactory.
20.       Duiring the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy, especially to
improve agricultural productivity. Towards this end, consideration will be
given to a second structural adjustment loan or credit following
utilization of the first. In addition, the fourth phase of NRDP, a second
water supply project, a second line of credit to the Investment and
Development Bank, a fifth education project and possible investments in
health and agro-industry are being contemplated. The Bank Group-s economic
and sector work will focus on such key areas as:   agricultural financing
and  production;  the most  cost-effective  approaches  to providing social
services; energy investment opportunities; and public sector management.



- 6 -
21.        In 1979, multilateral sources, especially IDA, provided about 45
percent of official development assistance to Malawi; the UK about 15
percent; and a variety of bilateral sources, notably Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the United States, accounted for the remainder. At
the end of 1980, the Bank's and the combined IDA/Bank shares in Malawi's
disbursed debt were 4 percent and 24 percent, respectively, and service on
the Bank Group debt accounted for 4.7 percent of the total debt service.
In 1985, the IDA/Bank share in total disbursed debt is projected to be 18
percent and the service on Bank Group debt to be 5 percent of the total
debt service.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT SUBSECTOR
22.        Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in Malawi's economy, providing employment for 85 percent of the
population, contributing about 90 percent of export earnings and 43 percent
of GDP.   Smallholders account for 85 percent of agricultural production,
including all food staples (maize, beans, groundnuts and rice), raw
materials  for  industry,  and  some  export  surplus.    The  15  percent  of
production attributable to estates provides 60 percent of the principal
agricultural  exports--tobacco,  tea, and sugar.   Tobacco accounts  for 63
percent of agricultural  export  earnings,  tea  for around 20 percent and
sugar for 13 percent.  Maize is the single most important food crop and is
grown throughout the country as a subsistence crop.  Surplus quantities are
marketed  by  private  traders  or  by  the  Agricultural  Development  and
Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), a parastatal body which also purchases and
distributes farm inputs to smallholder farmers throughout the country.
23.          Livestock raising is important in the smallholder subsector.
Most cattle are raised by traditional grazing methods in the less densely
populated central and northern regions and are considered by farmers as a
source of wealth rather than an industry.   With the present population of
about 900,000 head of cattle, overstocking will become a problem unless the
present   offtake   of  about   10  percent   is  increased.          Malawi   is
self-sufficienit in meat, but still imports most of its dairy requirements,
even though recent progress in local production has been impressive.   In
the past, the Government has not given much emphasis to livestock and dairy
development and as yet has not clearly defined its long-term development
strategy  for  this  subsector.    To  provide  a  basis  for  formulating  a
long-term policy, the Bank is financing, under a technical assistance loan
(Ln. 2027-MAI, approved in June 1981), a study of the development prospects
of the livestock, meat and dairy industries with emphasis on estimating
production  and  marketing  cost,  price  responsiveness  of  producers  and
consumers,  and future demand  and  supply.   The study is expected  to be
completed by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) by March 31, 1982, after
which the Government will exchange views with the Bank Group on its
findings and recommendations.



- 7 -
24.         Out of Malawi's 9.3 million hectares of land, only around 3.3
million are considered arable--of which about 3.0 million are estimated to
be under cultivation.   Soils of this arable land arerelatively fertile and
a fairly reliable rainfall permits cultivation of a wide variety of food
and  cash crops.   About 82 percent of  the land is held under customary
tenure; about 2 percent,  freehold;  16 percent, public land.   The average
small farm size is about 1.7 hectares, cultivated by a farm family of five
members. Historically, economic activity has centered on the southern part
of the country, which is mainly lowland, around the main commercial centers
of Zomba and Blantyre.   Since independence, however,  the Government has
concentrated  on  the  central  plateau  and  more  recently  the  largely
mountainous northern region, where levels of income and Government services
are far lower.   Although the least developed economically,  the northern
region is endowed with considerable, and to date not fully tapped, natural
resources.   Here only about 50 percent of the arable land is cultivated,
whereas in the central and southern regions mounting population pressure
has  extended  cultivation  to marginal  land.   In the past,  the northern
region  has   suffered   from   relative   inaccessibility   and   inadequate
infrastracture for distribution of inputs, services and consumer goods.
Consequently, the Government attaches high priority to developing this
region in order to realize its full productive potential.
25.             The  Government's  overall  strategy  has  been  to maintain
self-sufficiency in food staples, expand agricultural exports and, at the
same time, raise rural incomes.   In the past, agricultural production has
grown through expanding cultivated acreage.   However,  given the limited
supply of arable land and the increasingly high cost of reclaming marginal
lands, the main emphasis now is on raising both smallholder and estate
productivity.   Thus, land use planning, land conservation, and maintenance
of soil fertility, through improved farming techniques, timely supply of
input, and reforestation have become increasingly important.
Rural Development
26.         Improving smallholder productivity has been approached through
two different methods.   The first has concentrated on gradual improvement
of extension, land husbandry, and farmer training throughout the country.
The second through more capital-intensive, integrated rural development
programs in the Lilongwe, Shire Valley, Karonga and the Central Lake Shore
areas.    All  of  these  programs,  except  the  European  Development  Fund
assisted Lake Shore Rural Development Project, are IDA financed. They all
provide for roads, water, health facilities, markets, land improvement,
conservation, improved extension, training and research facilities, and
farm credit. Despite these efforts, however, the increases in smallholder
marketed production have been slow to materialize. Between 1971 and 1978,
the value of smallholder, officially-marketed production grew only about 3
percent per annum, compared with 10 percent per annum in the estate
sector. Better performance by the smallholder subsector has been hampered
by: (a) low producer prices; (b) inadequate extension due to insufficient
manpower; and (c) government limits on smallholders growing high-value
tobacco and tea in order to maintain strict quality control over these
high-cost commodities.



- 8 -
The National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
27.        In order to reach greater numbers of smallholders more quickly,
the Government, at the Bank-s suggestion, has adopted the NRDP. Initiated
in the mid-1970s, NRDP aims to improve and extend ongoing development
programs throughout the rural areas of Malawi by improving the efficiency
and  scope  of  farm  extension,   input  supply,  marketing  and  credit
facilities.   Emphasis is initially on increasing production from existing
cultivated areas, then on developing new areas. A phased approach has been
adopted to bring each development area into full productive potential.
28.        The core of the NRDP, for which the MOA is responsible, consists
of the following services:
(a)    Agricultural extension, coverage of which now is based on
ecological zones and on farm size related to population
density.   The objective is to reach a level of extension
staff of about 1 to 500 farmers.   Presently,  this ratio
varies widely from 1 to 200 farmers in some projects, to 1
to 2,400 farmers in non-project areas;
(b)    Training facilities, for farmers and their wives on three
levels:    farm  institutes  (of  which  there  are  three),
divisional residential centers (currently 16), and day
centers, which consist mainly of one room at 180 field
offices.
(c)    Agricutural  research,  carried  out  by  the  Agricultural
Research Department (ARD) of the MOA; the Faculty of
Agriculture at the University of Malawi; the Tea Research
Foundation; and the Tobacco Industry Authority.   Besides
research on all crops and livestock, ARD multiplies basic
seed and, for some crops, produces breeder and certified
seed.   A private seed company produces certified maize,
tobacco,  beans,  and groundnut seed.   The Government  is
redirecting its research efforts to better support and
guide  ongoing  operations,   giving  high   priority   to
improving   location-specific   technical   packages   for
smallholders.
Bank Group Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
29.          Bank assistance for the NRDP Phase III project would be the
eleventh loan/credit to Malawi for rural development.   They include three
credits for the Lilongwe Land Development Programs (113, 244 and 550);
three for Shire Valley Agricultural Development Projects (114, 363 and
823); two for the NRDP (857 and 992); and one credit (282) and a third
window loan (1286) for the Karonga Rural Development Project.   NRDP I is
designed  to  complete  the  consolidation  phase  of  the  Lilongwe  Land
Development Program and begin development in other areas.   NRDP II is a



- 9 --
wood energy project designed to establish a national network of nurseries
for production of seedlings for sale to smallholders to strengthen forestry
management, and to carry out studies of alternative sources of energy.
While  this  project  is  proceeding  on  schedule,  NRDP  I  is  suffering
difficulties   from  delays  in  the  Government's   providing   sufficient
supervisory and technical staff and recurrent budget funds.  The Government
is addressing these problems through the Structural Adjustment Loan and is
in the process of recruiting additional staff.
30.          The Karonga Rural Development Project,  in the extreme north,
began in August 1972, to develop irrigated and rainfed rice maize, cotton,
and groundnuts through better extension, farmers credit, constructing
roads,   water   supplies,   health   facilities   and   staff  houses;   plus
rehabilitating  freight  transport  services  on  Lake  Malawi.           Due  to
unexpected price escalation and cost overruns on the irrigation schemes,
the project period was reduced from five to four years.
31.        Despite the slow start and other problems, however, the Project
Completion Report and the Project Performance Audit Report (Cr. 282-MAI,
Report No. 2576, June 1979) judged the project in general successful and
farmer  participation  better  than expected.   The project emphasized  the
"scheme" approach to crop development in which extension was concentrated
on blocks of land in which individual holdings had been reorganized and
consolidated.    However,  this  approach  proved  to be  time  consuming  and
tended  to  bias  project  efforts  toward more  fertile  land.   There  were
substantial production increases, particularly for rainfed rice, but
irrigation was less successful.
32.          Phase II of the Karonga project commenced in September 1976.
This phase, which included for the first time the Chitipa district,
supported and expanded the activities financed under Phase I, focusing more
on local needs,  conditions,  and new crops.   Improvements  were made  to
Chipoka, Lake Malawi terminal and livestock facilities, and financing staff
housing, health facilities and market complexes. Initially there were cost
overruns in this phase due mainly to insufficient financial controls,
combined with steeply rising fuel costs. However, a monitoring and control
system for vehicle use is now in place; and these expenses are now under
control.
33.           The impact of Phase II is difficult  to assess  as complete
production data are not yet available.   Nevertheless,  the combined impact
of the two phases has been considerable in terms of improved cultivation
practices,   additional   farm  output,   better   animal   health  and   the
infrastructure the area now enjoys.   However, weaknesses also have become
apparent; namely, poor planning, inadequate coordination among extension,
veterinary and research staff; lack of success in developing appropriate
technical input packages for specific areas, or finding suitable new
high-value crops; and overgrazing and soil erosion.   The present project
will address these problems.



- 10 -
Smallholder Productivity
34.        The key to the Government's structural adjustment program, which
the Bank is supporting,  is to raise smallholder productivity.   This the
Government hopes to accomplish by extending and improving the NRDP and
using prices to provide greater incentives to farmers.  Over the next five
years, investments will be concentrated on completing existing projects and
on currently  cultivated  areas  where  immediate  production  responses  are
likely to be greatest.   In addition, the Government expects to diversify
its agricultural exports with different kinds of tobacco, groundnuts, and
livestock products.   To support these programs, total government outlays
for agriculture will rise from 18 percent in the previous five-year public
investment program to 22 percent in the period FY82-86.
35.          As further incentive for expanding production, the Government
increased producer prices for groundnuts in 1978, maize in 1980, and
will raise the price for cotton to a level acceptable to the Bank (as
stipulated in the Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement). Moreover, to set
producer prices on a more systematic basis, the Government has adopted a
methodology (worked out jointly with the Bank) to be used in its annual
price reviews. Applying this methodology, Malawian authorities will review
the prices of all major crops with the Bank Group by October 31, 1981 (in
accordance with the Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement).
Recurrent Expenditures
36.            Agricul.ural  projects,  particularly  in recent  years,  have
suffered from ins'fftcient funding for recurrent expenditures.   To help
rectify this underfun1ing, the Government in FY82 will budget an additional
MK 4.4 million for agricultural recurrent expenditure over that provided in
FY81.1 Coupled with this increase, the Government is completing a study on
NRDP's  longer-ter.n budgetary  implications.    This  study,  which  will  be
reviewed by the Association in October will provide the basis for improving
the coverage and impact of the program.  Malawi will nevertheless continue
) experience  difficulties  in meeting  its  recurrent  cost  requirements
during the next several years.
iSom.  MK  2.8  million  of  this  amount  is  being  provided  as  a
supplemeritary budgetary allocation (Schedule III, Structural Adjustment
Loan Agreement).



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.        The project was prepared by the Government with assistance from
the World Bank Group.   It was appraised  in September/October 1980,  and
negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from September 2-4, 1981. Mr.
Godfrey Kalinga of the Ministry of Finance led the government delegation.
A  Staff  Appraisal  Report  is  being  circulated  separately.    Annex  III
provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
38.          The project, which would constitute the third phase of NRDP,
would increase agricultural productivity and improve rural living standards
in the Karonga and Chitipa districts.   It draws on the experience gained
from previous rural development projects in Malawi, particularly the two
previous Karonga/Chitipa Rural Development Projects (KCRDPs). The project
is expected to increase Karonga/Chitipa rice production by 2 percent;
maize, 10 percent; groundnuts, 25 percent; and bean production, 22
percent. Specifically, the project would over a four-year period help:
(a) strengthen district level extension, training and research
programs;
(b)  construct  3  new  dip  tanks  and  improve  43  existing
livestock dip tanks, upgrade livestock development centers,
introduce a second pilot grazing scheme and construct
slaughtering facilities;
(c) introduce a smallholder pilot burley tobacco scheme as a
basis for expanding it in Chitipa and other suitable areas;
(d)  expand smallholder credit staff and build marketing   facil-
ities;
(e) establish forestry reserves in 7 locations and a Chitipa
town fuelwood plantation to produce fuelwood for sale to
the public;
(f)  provide   essential   social   services   (health  and  water
supplies;
(g) improve project administration and management; and
(h) strengthen MOA,s data gathering and analysis capability.



- 12 -
Project Area
39.        The Karonga and Chitipa districts represent around 6 percent of
Malawi's total land area and have a population of about 32,000 farm
families.   Their far northern location and topography make transportation
costs high and communications difficult.   In the two districts, about 80
percent of the population are in the plains area, which are the most
productive agriculturally.   In Karonga on about one-quarter of the land,
maize, cotton, groundnut and some cassava are grown on the better drained
soils and cattle grazed on the rest. The remaining three-quarters, largely
dissected hilly land, is unsuitable for cultivation. In Chitipa, even less
(about 17 percent) of the area is suitable for cultivation and of that only
25 percent is cropped.   Unlike Karonga, Chitipa has room for increasing
output by expanding the crop area.  Maize is the major crop grown on over
80 percent of arable land, while beans, groundnuts and millets are
secondary crops.
Detailed Features
Extension, Training and Research
40.         The project would improve extension in Karonga and Chitipa by
giving refresher courses to about 200 field assistants yearly on crop and
livestock husbandry and training on preparation work plans, extension
techniques and term management.   Funds also are provided for an extension
van, vehicles and staff housing. The extension staff: farmer ratio of 1 to
350 would be maintained while the quality of extension services would be
improved.   Financed by the project,  consultants  (four manmonths)  would
assist in the training program for extension staff. The farmers' training
program would be continued (about 5,000 farmers would be trained in four
years); a residential training center, and staff houses would be built and
training personnel employed. Assurances were obtained that the Government
would  employ  short-term  training  specialists,  whose  qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Association (Section 3.02(b), draft Development Credit Agreement),
and that the Government would, by June 30, 1982, prepare and furnish to the
Association for comment its program for in-service training (Section
3.06(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).   Research would concentrate
on trials in various locations and the project would finance about five
additional research staff, a small laboratory extension to existing
research facilities, as well as equipment and vehicles.
Livestock Development
41.          To further expand activities already being implemented under
previous phases, three new dip tanks would be constructed and 43 existing
ones upgraded. Cattle feeder roads near the tanks would be fenced to avoid
crop damage and five additional crushes would be constructed in the
foot-and-mouth disease control area. The two livestock development centers



- 13 -
at Karonga and Aleru would be improved and increased attention given to the
use of agricultural by-products as livestock feed.   A second grazing re-
serve would be established on a pilot basis in Karonga district, as a
holding area where cattle could be moved from the intensively cultivated
plains during the growing season.  Present unhygenic slaughter facilities
would be improved in Karonga and Chitipa townships as well as in a number
of villages.
Burley Tobacco
42.       Developing burley tobacco would help greatly to relieve Chitipa's
reliance on maize as a cash crop.   A pilot scheme, involving 50 farmers
initially, to cultivate burley tobacco would be started in the district
with project-financed grading and supply sheds and credit for purchasing
inputs and materials to build curing barns.   Staff experienced in burley
tobacco cultivation would manage the scheme and a local committee would
become responsible for the scheme. The Government would employ and assign
not later than March 31, 1982, a senior technical assistant, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, to assist in
implementing  the  scheme  (Section  3.02(d),   draft  Development  Credit
Agreement).
Credit and Marketing
43.         The project would continue supplying seasonal and medium-term
credit to farmers for growing cotton, maize, rice, groundnuts, and burley
tobacco, as well as purchasing fodder, seed, fencing, dairy cows, and
oxen. The Government and ADMARC will finance a marketing shed, five input
stores, a shed extension and staff housing needed to supplement existing
.ADMARC facilities. The draft Development Credit Agreement stipulates that
the Government would, not later than December 31, 1981, conclude financial
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, between the Government and
AiDMARC (Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).   Since demand
for credit in the project may exceed funds available, specific assurance
will be obtained that the Government would provide whatever additional
amounts are required up to an amount of MK 125,000 (Section 4.03(b),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Forest Reserves and Wood Plantation
44.             To  alleviate  serious  soil  degradation  and  erosion  from
overgrazing and population encroaching on hillsides, the project would
establish seven forest reserves throughout the Karonga-Chitipa area. While
several of these reserves would provide complete protection, others would
allow controlled cutting and grazing.  A 300 ha fuelwood plantation would
be established near Chitipa town to ensure an adequate supply of fuelwood
and poles for the township.  It has been agreed that the Government will
take the necessary measures to obtain the appropriate written approvals for
use of land for fuelwood plantation and forest reserves not later than
September 30, 1982 (Section 3.05(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Water and Health Services
45.        About 30 boreholes would be sunk for the cattle dip tanks, pilot
tobacco scheme, health center, and to supplement other water supply
programs in the two districts.   The Government would develop a plan, with
the assistance of the Department of Lands Valuation and Water and the
Karonga and Chitipa District Development Committees, for siting the
boreholes and would furnish the plan to the Association for comment before
June 30, 1982 (Section 3.07(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).   To
improve health services, the project would develop and test, on a pilot
basis, approaches to primary health care, including ways to reduce recur-
rent costs.   Before December 31,  1982,  the Government would prepare an
area-specific health plan for comment by the Association (Section 3.06(a),
draft  Development  Credit  Agreement).    Funding  for  a  subcenter,  two
maternity units, equipment and a public health officer for three years also
are included.   The Government would employ the specialist with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Association by June 30, 1982, who would help draw up and implement the
health plan (Section   3.02(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).   The
assistant chief medical officer in the Ministry of Health would be respon-
sible overall for the health items in the project, assisted by the public
health physician and district public health nurses assigned to Karonga and
Chitipa.
Project Management and Evaluation
46.        The first two phases of the Karonga/Chitipa Development project
suffered from weak management and an absence  of forward planning.   To
redress these weakness, a project financed economist, to be recruited
within the first 6 months of the project, would work with project manage-
ment  to  establish  an  effective  planning  and  monitoring  system.    In
addition, the Government would, by April 30, 1982, hire a financial con-
troller with experience, qualifications and conditions acceptable to the
Association (Section 3.02(a), draft Development Credit Agreement). Besides
improving the existing system of project accounting, budgeting and
financial  control,  he would  train a Malawian  senior  accountant.    The
project's  monitoring  and  evaluation  section,  currently  staffed  by  two
survey teams, would continue to collect data on yields and carry out house-
hold studies. It would be strengthened by adding a data processing officer
and a data analyst.   The reporting procedures would be streamlined and
tailored to the management's needs.   The MOA's Central Evaluation Unit
(CEU), which provides technical backup and coordination to the monitoring
and evaluation teams in the various projects, would also be strengthened by
the provision of a microcomputer and overseas training of the data pro-
cessing officer.



- 15 -
Data Collection and Analysis
47.         The proposed project also would continue funding (for an addi-
tional year) a systems analyst (currently funded by NRDP I, in the National
Statistics Office) and 12 months of consultant services for surveys.
Although modest, this financing supports a vital activity essential to
evaluating the entire NRDP.  After completing a National Sample Survey of
Agriculture, financed in part by the Association and in part by the UK, ca-
pability for carrying out annual agricultural surveys will be continued
jointly in the National Statistical Office and the MOA.
Recurrent Expenditures
48.        The new investments of Phase III are modest and will complement
and expand the ongoing development effort by introducing staff training,
emphasizing an integrated approach to farming systems, encouraging greater
coordination among research, extension, and farmer training, as well as
expanding staff to cover a wider area in the Chitipa District.  Continuing
development efforts by the existing project staff are therefore crucial to
Phase III incremental investment proposals.   To ensure that the recurrent
budget is adequate to assume the cost, it was agreed during negotiations
that the Government would increase its allocations to its revenue account
by an additional MK 1.0 million in 1981/82 and maintain that level over the
project period (Section 4.03(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
49.        The project's cost, in June 1981 prices, is estimated at US$8.6
million (the project is exempt from taxes and duties) of which US$4.6
million,  or 53 percent,  are foreign exchange costs.   The  proposed  IDA
credit of US$7.3 million would finance 85 percent of total costs, including
all foreign exchange and 69 percent (US$2.7 million equivalent) of local
costs.   The Government  would  finance  the  remaining  15 percent  (US$1.3
million equivalent).   Physical contingencies of 10 percent were added to
the costs of civil works, vehicles and equipment, and those components,
such as forest reserves and plantations, where the costs were mainly for
establishment.   Physical contingencies  come to 6 percent of total base
costs.  Price contingencies for vehicles, equipment and other supplies are
9 percent of the items' foreign costs in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982 and 7.5
percent thereafter. Price contingencies for civil works are 18 percent in
1981, 17 percent in 1982, 16 percent in 1983, and 15 percent thereafter,
reflecting the rising cost of inputs as well as the pressure on the
construction industry's capacity in Malawi.2  The project cost estimates
include 100 consultant months of assistance (estimated to cost around
US$623,000) including a 4 consultant months for staff in-service training,
36 months for a financial controller, 36 months for a public health
specialist, and 24 consultant months for a systems analyst (12 months) and
survey specialist (12 months). The average cost per consultant month (for
salary, international travel, etc.) is estimated at US$6,272.
These price contingencies are an average of foreign and local cost
components.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment (US$0.6 million)
for orders of US$100,000 and more would be subject to international com-
petitive bidding according to Bank Group guidelines; orders would be
grouped whenever possible.   Orders which cannot be grouped in packages of
US$100,000 and more, up to US$250,000 in aggregate, would be procured in
accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Association.
Civil works construction (US$2.3 million), which, due to their small sizes
and dispersed locations, would be constructed after local competitive
bidding or, if approved by IDA, force account.
51.       Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 100 of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures for
civil works, except for office and grading shed for the pilot tobacco
scheme; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles, spare parts, equipment and other materials; (c)
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures
for bulls, cows, and agricultural inputs and supplies; (d) 85 percent of
local expenditures for all operating costs, excluding agricultural inputs
and supplies, and excluding forestry, CEU, survey unit and pilot tobacco
scheme expenditures; and (e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85
percent of local expenditures incurred by the CEU, survey unit, operating
costs for forestry reserves and Chitipa plantation, the grading shed, and
office and operating costs for pilot tobacco scheme.
Accounts and Audit
52.       MOA would establish and monitor consolidated project accounts for
all expenditures under this credit in a clearly identifiable manner.
Project accounts would be maintained in project headquarters at Karonga,
except for separate accounts of the CEU and survey unit that the principal
accountant of MOA would maintain at headquarters. These accounts would be
audited by the auditor general, or by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association, not later than 6 months after the end of the fiscal year
(Sections  4.01(a)  and  (b),  draft  Development  Credit  Agreement).    The
Government also would monitor progress of the project and, not later than 6
months after the closing date, would prepare and submit to the Association
a fu'll report on the execution of the project (Section 3.04(d), draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Project Implementation
53.            The  existing NRDP management  structure,  under the overall
direction of the MOA, would be responsible for the project, except for the
health, water and forestry components. These would be overseen by the
Ministries of Health; Lands, Valuation and Water; and Forestry and Natural
Resources, respectively.   The program manager would continue to report to
the  chief  agricultural  development  officer  at  MOA  headquarters.    The
program manager would be responsible for the operations and specialist
senior staff at MOA and at the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
would give technical support. Whereas previously, the livestock, forestry
and research sections reported directly to MOA headquarters, they have now
been brought under the direct administrative supervision of the program
manager, thereby facilitating closer coordination and integration of NRDP
district-level  activities.    Coordination  between  extension,  research,
credit and land husbandry has also been strengthened by bringing these
units under the jurisdiction of the senior crop development services
officer.    Another  substantive  change  in  the  existing  organizational
structure is upgrading of the training unit to a section directly
responsible  to  the  program  manager.        These  changes,  together  with
strengthening project evaluation, planning and financial control (para. 46
would provide for improved administration and further develop program
management's planning and implementation capability.
54.          Community involvement would be enhanced by bringing the area
action groups (headed by chiefs) and farmers' committees (elected by
farmers) into the decisionmaking process concerning planning of extension
services, farmers training, credit programs and in the siting of boreholes,
dips, pilot grazing areas, etc.
Benefits and Risks
55.          The main objectives of the project are to integrate crop and
livestock activities and to expand farmer coverage.  In addition, forestry
activities would improve conservation and supply forest products to the
area.   Significant economic and social impact is expected from improved
infrastructure, increased crop, livestock and forestry production, and
better access to government services.
56.       The analysis which follows is based on the incremental costs and
benefits of Phase III only.   A separate analysis was done for all three
phases combined and the resulting rate of return was 17 percent.   About
1,200 farmers in Karonga and about 2,000 farmers in Chitipa would be
affected  directly  by  the  third  phase  of  the  project.    Production  is
expected to increase by 2 percent for rice, 10 percent for maize, 25
percent  for  groundnuts  and  22  percent  for  bean  production.    Through
adoption of improved crop husbandry, farm families would increase their net
incomes over the life of the project:   a typical rice farmer in Karonga,
from MK 191 to MK 239; a typical maize farmer in the Chitipa district, from
MK 178 to MK 228.   Roughly 30 percent of the farming population (about
9,500 families) own cattle.  Of these, about 40 percent would benefit from
the new and improved dipping facilities and extension services.   Better
animal health would permit a higher offtake for beef and increased milk
production.  It is estimated that livestock owners with 10 head of cattle



- 18 -
would realize an incremental income of about MK 44 by project year 4.
Fuelwood and poles from the Chitipa plantation would replenish the existing
supply of fuelwood and would substitute for other sources of imported
energy such as coal or kerosene.   The estimated economic rates of return
for the project components with quantifiable benefits are 19 percent for
crops (38 percent of total project costs);  13 percent for livestock (11
percent);  9 percent for forestry  (7 percent);  and 17 percent for these
components combined  (56 percent of the total costs).   In addition,  the
project is expected to yield a number of non-quantifiable benefits.
57.        A sensitivity analysis shows that in order for the economic rate
of return to fall below 10 percent,  benefits would have to decrease by
about 18 percent or costs would have to increase by about 21 percent. (If,
for example, benefits fell by 10 percent and costs rose by 10 percent, the
economic rate of return would still hold at 10 percent).   It is unlikely
that costs would rise to this level; however, benefits could be affected by
increases in transport costs which are not anticipated, unusually poor
weather conditions or crop and/or cattle disease. Termite damage is a risk
to the forestry plantation component.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.          I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
(by M. Qureshi)
Washington, D.C.
September 22, 1981



-  19  -                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             118.5                                     MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       41.4                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       50.0         80.0      200.0                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             ..         49.7      69.9                   70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       3419.0       4511.0    5817.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       4.4          6.4        9.2                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            11.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              36.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            28.9         38.1      49.1                   27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          90.0        114.2     137.4                   73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              45.5         46.8      47.2                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS,                              52.1         50.8      49.3                   52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        2.4          2.4       3.5                    2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.4          2.8       2.8                    2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                   4.5          6.6       6.9                    6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          52.9         51.6      51.0                   46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          26.8         22.0       18.5                  19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.2          3.2        3.4                   3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               90.0         91.0      96.0                   89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        86.0        98.0       90.0                   90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               55.0         67.0      59.0                   52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             5.0         10.0      10.0                   17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          41.0         31.3       25.4                  27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2         42.5       46.9                  45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                  *         149.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..      33.0                   23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                    ..           ..      70.0                   55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                    ..           ..      29.0                   18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         ..                  26.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..       15.0                  63.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              35250.0      38429.8   40678.3                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         12918.0       9051.7    2785.9                 3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 866.1        649.0     737.8                 1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                                 115.0        155.6         ..                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                1312.0        895.4         ..                1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         36.1/c    39.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          3.4/d
RURAL                                    ..           ..        5.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          1.9/d      1.7
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                    ..         16.0/d       ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..



20  -                                 ANEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                   ..        35.0      59.0                 56.4                   73.7
MALE                   ..        45.0      73.0                 70.7                   96.8
FEMALE                 *-        26.0      51.0                 50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  1.0         2.0       4.0                 10.0                   16.2
MALE                  1.0         3.0       5.0                 13.6                   25.3
FEMALE                0.3         1.0       2.0                  6.6                   14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   ..          3.0       7.2                  8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        43.0      62.0                 46.5                   36.2
SECONDARY                         14.0        16.0      20.0                 25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        22.1/e   25.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.8         2.2       1.9                  2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0        23.5      24.0                 32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0.7           * -       *                   1.9                    8.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..       3.2                  2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3          ..       0.9                  1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1570.5       1980.8   2404.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  38.7        38.1      37.8                 34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             92.0        89.0      86.0                 80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                3.0         4.0        4.9                  8.6                   17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               45.9        43.9      41.7                 41.7                   37.2
MALE                                57.5        55.3      53.4                 54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                              34.8        32.9      30.6                 29.2                   27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.2                  1.2                    1.3
INCOIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        32.6/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        50.6        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         10.47?       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        21.57f      .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    123.0                 136.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      99.0                 84.5                  156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      65.0                 99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      52.0                 61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      25.0                 39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      85.0                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicaLors depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965;  /d 1967;  /e 1966; /f 1967-68.
May. 1981



-  21  -                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 oE 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
St-op   A11 thgh the iot  urtoofeouee enrlyJudgd thaose  auh.ro"I Iv  Idrrla.                                    I  eh.,Id elet be  -co   that they sy 0t be intr
thebs  --I        o  curh  oreoofe ttd,ldioete tred.. sod ch--a-erte  -ertai    aJ., ditffer-eoj  bet-e  toutte..
Tnerot -oocogroup   ore     llhe  aoconr  gro f the subject cou-try and (2) a country group with somewat highreaaeicm   he   h   ont   ru
of the oho   couroryleotayr fr    ..poa 1yS-orplue1 OIl uotr' opwee"Middle I-on  forth Afrti- sod Kiddi  tact' tethnC  becus  of. ..teyngsr-
stctotulouOl atf too Lao.   lahe  ref--ro    grop dat. th. a-rae  eve _popultion weighted -fthbmtil meat  for ...h tdi-tato  end show  only  hbwg
najorioy of the  tonr ow lo   gropbe  data f-t that i.dlo-ter.  Sate .the  --vra. of  -outrloweeew   the itdioet-v  depends ow theovllhility of d.t.
un  iotooiTfo      -nti-o mutt be worI wd iw relwtia9  -esegew  of aweldi-eto  no onther   Th...sv-rageers toly u..ful In tep-ring the e-lua of
on   oio-or or a tine  -moo  the oootry end refov-e  groupe.
T.t.l - Tot.l eurfec    iermren    ud  raudOlo   a a                                              urhen. ed rura) dtide  b  ther           -apei- nebhr of hoepite1 had
AfrIc_uAto..  - tetlscoeo  ariutua  eeeuod               aporrl  00p'reansoy                      availble fin Pbhio end prirate  genra  erd  pe-ieliwed heepita1 ead   -
Itc  -cpe, P.et_rt   ahted kItchen  e-de-  -r to 1I. fa1low; 1979de-s.                          hwbtlitetiotatea    fleil  00  etbliebhett  permanetlyewfd
by  tI-ee  e-  phy Icia..   E toblihbneots P-ovdlvg prinoipelly ono
GNP PER CAPITA   S       GN)   lP Per r-pite estiwotr  at  --ten   -krht pr      -1, e-             diall cur  are ct icludad.  uroI h.epitols, haoe.e-, include health
,,iated by some      1 ovrwion method .  World Owol Anise (1977-79 basis); 1960.                  awd editol t-ter  not prm nty  tf fad by a phyaliew.  (hat bya
I971  od 1979 dut.                                                                                ndicel ... isn t, nurs,  idwife, etc.) ehith offer in-Petiart w-oene-
darit  en. d proide aILiited runie  f tedi..l  fciiie.             ,o ata-i
05_110 C0OSUrOPTI.CNM yr A 7TA - Aenuo  oo.eomptiow  ofoomeo             aorgy I(a                   fteal p-rposae urba  hoepitel  laloaOf.   ptnipl gnra   opitele.
cod   oin  prt-ol.u, vut-r1 gee tod hydro-,  -ul-a n   eohra  else                                at-rra  hospita.1. lao- o rurlhsital  ed  .edie  and magt.-ity
tor~lty) to kilog-oa  of 0001 euieotPO  -0710; 1960, 19, anS99ooes    p..ialteod hoapielel err  ooluded ..Iy uwdee total.
dtru.                                                                  ~~~~Admlsuep0ftega   o     ttlnme   f odmisi.e. to or dshne
fro   hospittel  divided by the  ete  ofl bed.
P'OPULATION MD1 VITAL STATMSICS
TottP~uiOlp,  fidYru  (houuo) A.u of July 1; 1960, 1970, wod 1979                  00OU1ING
iota.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Avers.. Si.. of Househod (Sreso-e oo  housthd) - totol. urhn. and tonal-
ljtho Popoutiot(pororo oftorl  ~- Rtie of u-bat to total p.polstieo;                      A ho..ohold  -oni.tMf         ropo    indvdul  Who share liviog qeet...
difforno dfluitooa o-urhe  er-c a   ffc   op-rbilityafdate                               *ad thi   anmal.Ahader or lodgerma  or may not he toluded 1s
aoongto...ories; 1960, 1970  uod 19709uw                                                        the h.o.ahold for  ntliatla  prpn.
Poy...tI on Projo-t-nu                                                                          Avlrweanum..beIo eew   o   os-total.1 urb!T.:!wd ruralI - A..raga   a
Poro...... On Yro  7000 - C..r..t poPulatio  p-eJoctioor wr base.d ow 1960                      he   fpasw  prromi   l  ura,an   ualeopedanlate
totulpopuatio  by  ge ad  .o  and ihe   neolr   n   eriiyrn                             d.olli.g., r-p-tivaly.  freelirge eatiuds toe-p.rm          -tm  trutm.... a.d
frjerio  arnerrefem oraIy aror  coprise of three leos  ee-                              norpe  prs
Oct I100  aopere,-yc<o   lteein-OhoettO0  e   apisieteAos  to .l-ttoio   (prer..rt of dwelliowsl - tonl.aran  .ad rena  -
le_l-. otOwl -      Iref otoaty          ilhl,i.ig at 77.5 year.  Th. Pra                     Convetiona  deullingo oteh eleetitgr  1 ivI .amquatr   epromtas.
entree   forretility rate also have thro  1eel-       anuin  deoliwo to                       at tetu1, urbee. end rura  dellings r-ePantivoly.
fort-tyu u--adiog to iroi  lov.. ..d Vatfamily plaoiagprfoenn
lath.cvty1  to   eted oeo   hee   in  cobinations uf mertitty                            EDUCATION
Sood fertility trenda fo- prejeovI.. purp.ew.                                                AdJusted Enrollm-t Ratins
StaOtotaro yco1ucIoo~ln t  oIonr    oylieaia    sn  growth sltrmry sho   -  oa.  aoad fosal  - Gr... rtotl, sale amd f le
the birth ruto Ia oqu,tic  the d-ath retr. awdels  the  g  etutorel we                           oula    falage' t h  pegeary iw-a  as percetages of reapoetfe
noloOtonatut ~i. baInohieo   ony  fafe  f-otility rates deolino to                         priwary schuel-ags   po aio..; normally  -inldes rhildren aged 6-11
tho ro.plat o  loa ...     uttit neItj   Pro detie  o-ta, 0h- seth genertien                    year  bat edjsted f or digffneot lengths of penme   edoratiu; fa
ofoenryae   oef           natl. rThe s.taijey papulotto  sieen                                  countries with uwivreel indura.tion enoletmy eaoed 105 panning
--imted or the bunie of the peojoted carcieristges of theipopulatio                             sie_ some popile ss  Is-e or above lbs  fflota1 mehoi aS..
ton the your lO. and t0,  rate of d-cline of tactilIty rats n.                                 .... -  Ooed.ry school - total,' malesad famala - Cmputed as abov;aeedr
nerO  level.                                                            o~~~~~~~dutatios r.nroat lase foryears ef eppo-vd pegar  laraigm
otsttonary.. roputol- Ia root.hud - Th. Y.ar uber  trai..ary pepultien                      pe-id.. ga...rel. --eti-1a, o  tarh.. tas  imie  iwennutla    f. orpspik.
sT :Lee   s     re ..couhad,                                                                     usully of 10 to 17 year  of ae  oaarepaed=msours c  geesealy
ftc  t. ka.    Hq- Ol-erppktl posur   ilumt-e 1100 hs.tte-) ef                                  Ve...tiol Ia...lmowt lonr... otlf ......  ere)   Va.. ttaeal    ttale
tot.1 ura-    96,1970 and 1979 dote.                                                               le.  teoboinel. iwdustrFl rehrprgaselbaprt  msm
fore-  ha.1 _critltor.. land - Cemypltd as  bove for arcltoilend                                  eatlyore  depertmett  of seeeedary instintntam..
voly; 1060., 1970 and 1976 dare.                                                              Puell;j-tesbo  eal  -pIr,wd sc                u,ar  - Ttoal sEed..g .sre1lld is
Aouatp    0  Struture (.r ... t) - Childew   10-14 years), arking-ags (II-                    priaY adoenaY le_l  divie  by                   b.1r  of t-.oboo  is the
ho yeoro)  so   eld -i    61 yar  on-d ove) as potoonoan  of sid-Y-ar popu-                       eanepeda   IIIl.,
lot ion; 1960. 197 0, and 197Y9 dote.                                                           Adul171t l=rse   rts tar-ett   - Litrat. adate  (able te read sa  write)
foulilo   oth Hair l-ro...t) -otutl - Ae-e  gr-I ooth r.tws of total mid-                     asa percetaga of total edwt pupulagIn   gad 19 yeats en  eso
yorpoueiot   ar15-6.160-71  end 197-79
P.p.l.tien Grouh Ratn . roo   - u n- A.nua  growth rates of urban  pop-                       CoaNttSfff 10
loIons f-o 1950-60, 1960-70,. ad 1970-79.                                                     pe Csge      tar (nor theusd..     oeio   - Peomr  s   npiamnr
Crd   Ith Rate _(par Othsejed) - Aen-I lIve births par thued of mid-yea-te  satio  less the..ih  pessi  wlds  smbolewe. be-.a.a sed
oylvo;10,1970, end 1979 done.                                                         slitry v.hi,les.
Crude Dro   ov       rtheoseod) - Aowo Id.eth. per thounnds of sid-y...ndaResvrefo  thouadnowoin  - All types wf  raimsfar radio
pouaIon: 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                         broadeasne to gemar-    wii   e  thecend of peplatiom; a..ladmeon
Orose R Oorduorti.nHoi t      -     i- vrgeubar of daught-rs  una ill beer in                     liossed reniv-ts inomt 4s and  Yw pear  wham regi*tratien of radio
rnoma  -p-rd-uoiv  period ifsha.np-eis-  p..on...             -retft ofr..                 eat  was In sff et; date for retes t y ...s say non ho oopaalssi
001lity races; us...lly fiv-y-a  u--rgos .ndiag In 1960, 1970, and 1979.                        mast nowtela  sho blso   llaanewg.)
Pnnily PlnnngAoeeor,Annual (ie-s-ds) - A-ntl numberf a...... rI                                 TVtniaraaath"ednouele   - TV ....iLns for broadn..st to
of hlreb_- t-nOu  d-vi-o  under suspios of nwtiaua1 famly pl oenS poogosm                      gSn...ra  publia p., thou... d popoaties;  ueladss usltosssd TV rnei-srs
really Pleeofnw-llese (roroent of marrie  women) - Paromenag  of marroed        in oufI tise andi is yadri   whw. rsgih.. etiui   of 9 TV we was Is effett
publieetian devtod promanly to rm..nrdlmg ge..-.L  -ms It Istmedrd
POll) A000 00U0R7110                                                                                 ta hb  daily" if In ePpa-. at I... t (..r tige  s -4s.
lndr, of Foo. oaucotpe   eo             196911-~log10) - Idea of par caia  nua_lem  ImuJ Attendanc  par Ceolte par Ysar - Se..ed om the oube  o
prod-eito   llfo utio             io.   .eaution  _nlodee seed end feed sd                      tieats said derteg the Y-,r Ineudieg   m                tsisan  dr1ee-L.e ut-.e
Is ot  elna  year basis.  Cameditls  --vo  primary Snode (s... .Srugatem                        and mahil  units..
r_twod of  ugSr)whic toe  dible ood  -ontai  etrieot. (s.g. -nffse and
"Iu era  -ecudw) .  Agggete prodnien of e.ch n...y.             shaedo thUIR b000
-st-1a -v-rg. Prodo...t rrieo weights; 1961-60. 1970,              979 dat.                   Tetal Q Labo  Fnrr   tho-osade   - In-smlally sotil. p-505.lsidm
Par orr   oroo   orfersstofrvtnns-Cmpogfrmomdfoaenueml,dbot .eldimehoseivs.otde.st, an...
roe1rg1yotqoio   t of ntP-o splIsviable  In coun.try per -spita                               neeigpplto    f all amS.'   P efinitlune Is  -rverae  a             triss ens
Par day.  A-eilobla suppiesi    oprs  dometic production, imports lees                       aette arb; 1960. 1970 and 1979 det..
oup_ote. eod changee In  t-kh.  Nst .uppli.s smlude anialfed, sed.Fmlsfa                                    ) - Fmle lebor f.r.a as pern-tae of toial labor f05.
quetoIoeeodinfoo  pecrsin,  nd  oses  n  iatiheie. tquro-Ag teotr  (rot)- Labor fare  in ferimie, forstry, hootieg wed
a00   soetimated by FA0 hose d nn physiolugitel wee ds for norma  eo-                       fishig s              rratg    f tote1labsor fare; 1960. 1979 end 1979 dtn..
vito and hnulth --tidoengevreoo             tsltiPoesrore *body  eig,hts;. ge               Industr  (par.onit  - Lahoe forcei  meag.nntoutiwe,mefati
aod aso distcibucti.  of populetio, end allowing 10 peroant for .ese  en                      ed ertloty. water ed gasa  pretaeo   otetl lebor fare; 1960
house.hold leve; 1961-65. 1970,..aw  1977 data.                                               1970 and 1979 date.
Pro toptto auppl of prornie (greaoar day) - Prtein -entsat of par "apit          Pertioieatiow  Hate (Pror..t) - total na,ea               1.ml  - ftOtilpegi.osrw
net supply offood par day   non soyply   f fd is defiend asshv.   Re-   Soatt t aa   r                     ptmd as total.  el. ed femal  laborw fra   as .
quiast   o    Il.. cutries astebILeha  by USDA provide fur elimum                             paostao  of towl  mal  sa d faml  Vp.peItico  of all ages raspenivaly
allo.... of 60  reen oftotal proteg  Per day sad 20 grea.  ef animal sed                      1960. 1970,. ad 1979 date.  Thes .. a hose.d on I1.O'  pantli1ptnim rera
Pulse p-tnntn, vf whlh 10 goan_  he-Id b. arteal proteiw.  Thass seand-                       refloetoetg age-se  sf6tonar" of the Pepuletios. end I.mg tles grid.  A
Mrd  era1 ..wor than theec of 75 gSmaa of tenal pretoio and 23 gram  ozf                      Me  estimate  are from nat ionl  ar
niaol  -rtio as        -vrogn for the torld, propose.d by TAO in who Tird                  E..og   aednrgn   -Otoo   n.lno  adsi   n   5adee
W-rld Food S-roy; 1961-65, 1970 ad 1977 data,t                                                       thental labo  fWns
Pa.r cpc   rtl   uoyfo   rn wdple- Pro tai  supply of f nd d.-
rOa   rn  tolodple  10 Scn   per day; 1961-65, 1970 end 1977 dana.               INCOoM  DIoTRIoUTION
Child loee 1-) Mortlity gte fret thoas..fdS - dAnu1 deoths Per thoumnd in                Pe-roet.ge of Private I-nm  (both 10 cash and kind) - l..sivd by richest
age group 1-A years, to  hbildron to this ego goop; fer meet devloeping tun5 Peean..t. rirheet 20 Paro.n. zpeores  207 percent, aed P .a.m.C 49 p-arat
c00doted_rO-d fro  lif. tublas; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dews,                                    o  housholds.
HEAL.Th                                                                                         POVORIt TARGET GROUPS
Life ,  otora   ii            oa       vrg  ether of year  of life eraliojg                        Tefollowing se-ltiate  are  er  aVpprocimto  eascree of pevety I.-Il..
at birch; 196, 190sd 1979 daeTah                                                                     aoodb  itrrtd wt   oeiayl    eim
of97pa   hus    10  births.d bbeole                                                                      t pove tyiom   isvtl is thenrba   .&el.t o  oie     mege
Aooeo t  Saf Sarr carcon  f eeoluiAn-I datth. ofac  end.t rual-d ha-..   yu.t..l  aout   it  lsesnio   a-odruuemss    sag&
hr   fP-PI. (total, urban, nod rual   it   aoahbanssr-sf
-aaapply (-inod.s t-eatd  -ttfce .atr  or           -ieted how... uotomiested                affordable ..t              I 2t           u    --1tad-
woe   uh ea that fro  protectd b-rholas   pins   n  aaaitatY sl)05oalratv pvety Om    .rvelisoetrdfaeraePer caPit.
fer..ags o  ner n-aecir   taploiothn20af-. haoreaeopubite  b                                    prsona  I-nos  of rho .-otry.  Orben lvl is derived from  the ru...I
f..ufo_o o   b iadgo itoere  not meeta100-to1ro      esmyh                                      ao  with adjustmet for higher nost of living La urbenas
coowidrad ashaing  IthIt  usatcblt  ccs o.ff that bo- o. In rural arsee               Estletod .11PoralaiontB01w Abololte Pevartrylora    Levl ( -ere)..uo-br
do rot ha y  to wrod a  isprti-oatw  part of the day in fotohieg the                            hearI'
f.nily' eoarrr -oeds..                                                                            o
.umbar of proyl  (total  -rha, adrrl   aodb                  rn   ipsla
Pae-nogae of the ic -ep-tci- populatiows.  OuE-st  disposal ma-y inolada
th _1 _olcian end diapoe.., etc  oo withut iteatea-     of huma   --ota                                                              E...a-I. end nSnie  Rena Dtnieto
und. tusO-ut.r byua.ter-.berne systua or the aen of pit privies end simi.                                                        antcAayi   a  FoataaOaEm
Population P"o PhysicOao - Fpul'oia  divided by nuber ef pr-ticie physi-                                                                               MaY 1991
ci... quollfiod fr..e   a mdical echoa1 00 u-iv-rity levs.
foulroetr N-oi-a Pereoa - Populotioe diotdod by eub-r of p-stiioi
_lr and tamal  grad aor-     ras  pr..tieal .u..... and ..asistnt nurses.



- 22 -
0000
L                0
1]          0000 '.004-.   .000    '.00
.    . . .      .                      -.   0   000    0  .40
.40.t.r-.0o.      ...to   000,-                    I>. .0 tO -  -
K
0000                                    .40        0
'''                             i
,       -                                       f.o
000 000                                      .40
0000..000 00    .-.4.4    000                     - - 0  0  -.
.0.40 0000.4.4    000   OoO.4
00.4000000.400    OO    .00                       .0           00
0000,-0000N     000   0000                       '000000000
0         25.X.          QS.A                             0
000000000000      .4.4    000                      0 0 000 0  000
I -        00000.-00.-0              -- -                                -
A
0.N000000000      000   0000                        000-00   000
H    -                     .    ...         .                     00
0    0        oo.Ooooooo 00    000   0000                          0 0 000 0  000
0000000000               00 -                       E   oo-
   4I        0000000.40000     000   00..00             -;
000   000,'.             01 00

0               t00   0000.4               00   000000   00.0
000000000.4    00.4   0000o                                  00.4
00000 0000    '-'.4.4   0000 .                                00,-
0000000-0                                           -0---
000000000000    .400   0000                  I 00   0 0 000 0  0000
LA      .2o o  oooo
   4                       0
;g;:;::x;        LJJ    0)00* 0            0100      0 0000   '.0..'
00      -                       -                     00
000000000000      00.4   00000 01 000000.40  I ON   0 0 000 0  0000
N004)000rN0.4     00   0000' 0'  0,00000 0 00   - 0 000 0  000
-0              00       0
000   000,00   ONNoONO.'.  00       0  000   0-0
0.40   0000-   0000 .000 0 00   I 00000   000
00.400000-0                - -       000000.40I  ooo
4                      0)
4        0            0      00                     4       0
t : v1irJJ j



ANNEX I
Pa8e 5 of 6
MALAWI - BALANCE OF PAYrEFTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Actual.                                Eatimate                      _   rojections
1075       9076         1477       1076            1U7?        1930             1'181       1 012       19E7        19R 91V
A.    SMaary of Scalnce vf
Pyments
1.    Exports (Inc. NFS)              170.3       213.6       239.1       211.4           266.6       VA>6            370-5       441.0      ,j2.4        .14.1       74".u
2.    Import. (Inc. NFS)              290.1       256.3       281.4       387.0           472.2       514.8           550.5       622.1       717.6       818.9       934.6
3.   lteouree Balance                -119.t        42.7      - 42.3      _175.6          -205.6    _ 166.2           -171.0      -180.2      -188.2      -204.9      -214.8
4.    Met raetor Srvic, imerem           9.2     - 20.7      - 2e.9      -  5.0          - 43.8        39.2            54.62     - 71.7      - 72.8      - 70.1      - 69.8
5.   Current Transfer. (Net)            5.8         5.7         6.3         6.3          -  0.4         0.9             2.2      -  2.1      - 2.5      -  2.6      -
6.    Baelnee on Current  cco"nt  -2104.8        - 57.7      _ 64.9      _174.3          -249.8       206.3          -227.4      -254.0      -263.5      -277.6      - 28/.f4
7.   Prtvet. and Publ ic Enterprise
marrouitn  (Ouet)               15.0        13.S        12.6       20.8             15.3       38.7              8.0         1.6      -  0.6        2.7         10.0
8   _  If & LI Capital           18.4        12.7        22.6        41.3            47.9        66.7            87.8       101.1       119.4      138.5        160.7
9.   Dibursmets                        96.8        34.1        33.7        95.1           111.6       155.5           160.5       182.4       202.6      208.2        199.6
l0.  Amortization                      11.0         5.0        11.5        20.8            17.0        52.6            37.5        55.6        67.3       64.8         55.2
11.  Net. Disbursement                 75.-3       29.1        72.2        74.3            94.6        64.2           123.0       126.8       135.3      143.4        144.4
i2.  tis  of  N  Rfeeources (nee)      2.q         1.7         8.'5        1.0            34.0        31.3            20.9        34.5        29.1        16.4          -
13. Short-TUrm Capital franscc-
tion. and noCt mooetar move-
ment*                        - 22.7        35.9        14.0        12.6            46.5        14.6              _           _           -
14.  Change in kmerve (es
-increcee)                 - 15.4        35.3      - 65.0      + 24.3          + 11.5     -  9.2           - 1Z.3      - 16.0      - 19.7      - 23.4      - 27.7
8.    jronats  nd_ 1.n.n Coajitme
1.   Official Grante                     -            -        11.2        10.9             11.6
2.    Publie M & LT Loas               43.6        34,5       16B.6       143.1           146.2
2.1  IUD                                 -           9.2        17,0        3.o               -
2.2   IDA                              20.1           -        15.0        '3.2             14.5
2.3   Otker  15ltiltera1               6.9          5.3       37.5        12.7            16.2
2.4   GoveremeAte                       16.6        63.5       64.1        57.2            41.3
2.5   Supplier                                 -            -                 -             11.9
2.6   Financial Inetltutiose             -            -        35.0        27.5             6?,3
2.7   Boud                               -            -           -           -               -
2.8   Public Loane n.e.i.                -            -           -          -                -
3.   Other    . LT4I.oens
C.    It_oranduu Irem
1.   Grant Element of Total
Commitment                       74.0        57.''       42.4       43.4             42.5
Z..   Avers"# Interest (Percent)         1.4         2.1         4.7         4.6             5.1
3.   Averes&  Naturity (Years)          41.41       35.6        28.0        31.9            27.7
_ _ _ . _ _ . _ _ . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7JD
_7-2 s105



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
MALAWI - DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979
A.  Medium and Long-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD End of Period)                      243.5      256.9      300.3     399.3      423.3
2.  Including Undisbu-sed                                           333.0      347.2     458.3      612.0      605.8
3.  Public Debt Service                                              16.5       14.6       12.6      23.5      -27.0
3.1 Interest3 8.1                                                                6.3        4.2      11.6       16.2
4.  Other M&LT Debt Service
B.  Debt Bu-den
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                                9.1        7.2        7.0      13.5       12.0
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                                  2.5        2.0        1.5       2.6        2.2
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                           15.9       13.2       10.1      14.0       11.8
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                   3.3        2.4        1.4       2.9        3.8
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                      6.8        5.5        4.5       4.9        6.4
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Irports (incl. NFS)                          16.5       13.2       23.4      25.2       29.4
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                                 11.0        7.6       18.9      19.2       23.6
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                 65.8       51.1       80.9      75.9       80.5
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                       -         0.3        3.6        2.7       9.3
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements               23.6       35.3       20.2      21.3       19.7
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                               2 -         0.04       0.8       1.3        4.2
1=  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                         25.3       28.7       28.9      26.9       31.7
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Ser-vice                              -          -         0.07      1;2        2.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                        2.4        3.4        5.5       4.2        7.0
Outstanding December 31, 1979
F,  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                           Amount                 Percent
(US$ million)
1.  IBRD                                                                        17.9                  4.2
2.  IDA                                                                        116.2                 27.5
3. Othe, Multilateral                                                           57.2                 13.6
Gove'nments                                                               120.6                  20.6
5.  Suipplie-s                                                                   9.4                  2.3
6.  Finanrial Instiutions                                                      100.0                 23.7
7.  Bonds                                                                        2.1                  0.1
8.  Public Debt, nei                                                              -                     -
0.  Total Public l'&LT Deb'                                                    423.6                100.0
10.  0tThe- 11FLT Debt                                                                                   -
11.  Total Public Debt ,incl. Undisbursed)                                      605.19               143.1
12.  Total M&LT Debt (incl. Undtisbursed)                                          -                     _
EAlDB
Ap-il 1931



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of June 30, 1981)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                             Third                   Un-
,Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose                    Window    IDA        disbursed
Two loans and 12 credits have been fully disbursed                   17;00    87.22
S-17-tAl       1974    Republic of       Transport Engi-
Malawi           neering & Services                                0.23
523-KAI       1975                     Second Highway                                     0.56
590-MAI       1976                     Education II                                       0.63
1286-T-MAI    1976                      Agriculture-
Karonga II                  9.20                 0.29
711-MAI       1978                     Water Supply                           7.00        5.39
758-MA1       1978                     Third Highway                         10.50        0.37
823-MAI       1978                     Shire Valley
Consolidation                       10.70
1610-MAI       1973    ItiDEBAN4K       First DEC                     3.00                 2.07
857-HtA1      1979    Republic of      National Rural
Malawi            Development
Program I                            22.00      15.25
910-AAl       1979                     Education III                          14.50      12.06
992-lHAI      1980                     National Rural
Development
Program II                           13.80      12.81
1099-MAI       1981                     Highway IV                             33.02      33.0
1123-HAI       1981                     Education IV  /                        41.03      41.0
2026-MAI       1981                     Structural Adjustment        45.004               45.0
2027-MAI       1981                     Technical Assistance          1.004                1.0
TOTAL                                                75.20    263.32
of which has been repaid                                         2.11
amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA1                      75.20    255.09
TOTAL undisbursed                                    48.36    123.93    172.29
lPrior to exchange adjustments.
2Equivalent to SDR 25.9 million.
3Equivalent to SDR 32.2 million.
4Approved June 25, 1981.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
July 31, 1981           -
Total
Investment                                    Type of                             Held    Undis-
Number         Year     Obligor               Business   Equity   Loan  Total  by IFC  bursed
----------------(US$ Million)-------
326-MAI       1976     David Whitehead       Textiles       -       6.0   6.0    4.0       -
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI       1977     Dwangwa               Sugar          -       9.9   9.9    9.9       -
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI       1978     Investment and        Development  0.6       -    0.6    0.6        -
Development          Finance
Bank of Malawi       Company
502-MAI       1979     Malawi                Tourism        -       2.0   2.0    2.0      1.6
.lotels
Limited
543-MAI       1981     Ethanol Company       Manufactur-
Limited of           ing Alcohol
Malawi               from
Molasses      0.2    1.7    1.9    1.9    1.7
TOTALS     0.8  19.6   20.4   18.4    3.3



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. S-17-MAI          Transport Engineering and Services Project; US$ 2.0
Million Credit of June 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness: August 28, 19Y4; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project was designed to determine the infrastructural requirements
of a proposed pulp and paper mill and to provide technical assistance for the
exploitation of the Viphya forest resources. The transportation -studies and the
design of the transport facilities have been completed. Part of the credit
proceeds that remained were to be used to assist the Government in putting
together a financial package for the proposed mill. The package is still
incomplete, however, and the proposed project to construct a 12,000 ton pulp and
paper mill is still being analyzed by the Government to determine its economically
viability.  The -final report on the proposed project is expected Kiortly and will
be viewed within the overall context of the development of Viphya's forest
resources. Last disbursement was made July 24, 1981, and. formal closing
procedures are underway to cancel the remaining balance.
Credit No. 523-MAI           Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 19, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
February 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of reconstructing to two-lane bituminous paved
standard the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (about 70 miles), including a bypass around the
Lilongwe industrial area and reconstructing the Ligadzi bridge; and a pilot
program in one district for improving development and maintenance of district
roads. Construction works for the main road are complete and savings of
approximately US$3.5 million were realized for this component. Results from the
pilot program for district roads improvement and maintenance (DRIMP) indicate
clearly that the program has been successful and that it is feasibLe to extend it
to other districts. The savings from the reconstruction component are being used
to extend the pilot program to three additional districts; accordingly the Credit
Agreement was amended by letter of June 9, 1978, and the Closing Date was extended
to June 30, 1982. Project completion of all components except DRIMP is expected
by August/September 1981.
Credit No. 590-MAI           Second Education Project; US$11.6 Million Credit
of November 24, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for constructing 22 model primary schools as
examples for replication by communities and facilities at the schools for a rural
education program; it establishes a new primary teacher college; and adds
practical subjects in selected secondary schools with emphasis on facilities to
increase female enrollment.   As costs permitted, the project scope was enlarged
to include computer facilities for the Malawi Certificate Examination and Testing
Board and additional staff housing. All contracts have been awarded and, except
for minor additional construction at a number of primary schools, the project has
been substantially completed. At the Government's request the Bank Group recently
extended the Closing Date to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of all
contracts.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan No. 1286-MAI             Second Karonga Rural Development; US$9.2 Million Loan
of June 24, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 18,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, financed on Third Window terms, consists of seasonal and
medium-term credit to farmers, extension service, market complexes, health
facilities, boreholes and other infrastructural facilties, agricultural and
hydrological research, preparatory investments for the National Rural Development
program, and rehabilitation of berthing facilties at Chipoka Lake terminal.
Improvements of Chipoka harbor has been completed.   To date, the project has been
progressing satisfactorily, although crop production figures, with the exception
of maize and groundnuts in. Chitipa, have not reached appraisal estimates. The
original loan Cfosing Date was extended from March 31 to December 31, 1981, to
enable the Ministry of Agriculture to complete Phase II and to process all the
outstanding claims under project.
Credit No. 711-MAT            Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 18, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Initial delays in project implementation occurred due to revision of
the projects scope, but implementation is now proceeding reasonably well.
Detailed engineering is complete and awards have been made on three of the four
contracts being financed by the Association while awards of the two remaining
contracts are expected shortly.   However, due to the initial delay, commissioning
of the works is now scheduled for late 1982, rather than December 1980 estimated
at appraisal.  The Blantyre Water Board's current water sales are running at 30
percent lower than those forecast at the time the 10 percent rate of return
covenant was established.  Due in large part to this shortfall, the Blantyre Water
Board's 1980 rate of return approximated 5 rather than 10 percent. In view of
this continuing trend together with project implementation delays and general
economic recession in Malawi, the Government is carrying out a reassessment of the
demand for water, the value of Blantyre Water Board's assets costs and future
investment requirements which would be completed by October 1981. On the basis of
that review, the Government may propose that Section 4.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement be revised to a more reasonable tariff target in the medium-term.
Credit No. 758-MAI            Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 29,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of constructing the 52-mile Kasungu-Jenda road to
two-lane bitumihous surfaced standard; strengthening three short sections of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road (parallel financed by the OPEC Special Fund); and providing
consultant services for the supervision of the roads, and for the feasibility and
engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. Construction works on the
Kasungu-Jenda road are almost complete, and strengthening works on the
Zomba-Lilongwe road are well underway. Studies for the Jenda-Mzuzu road are
complete, and tender documents have also been finalized. The Credit Agreement was
recently amended and the Closing Date extended from June 30 to December 31, 1981
to permit completion of strengthening works.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Credit No. 823-MAI            Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: September 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Program and includes extension services to support increased cotton
and foodcrop production, seed multiplication and afforestation programs,
production credit, livestock and fisheries development, health and potable water
supply facilities, a smallholder irrigation development study and sdme rural
roads. It will provide social and infrastructure services to about 70,000
families. The.Valley attained self-sufficiency in food crops for the first time
in its history in 1977/78. Cotton production also regained the levels attained in
the early 1970s. Guar bean production is rising rapidly, but groundnut production
is declining. The project had a slow start because of staffing shortages and
procurement delays.   Steps have been taken to improve staffing; production
estimates for the 1980/81 season show a strong recovery from draught that had
affected the two previous seasons; foodcrops and guar beans in particular
increased by about 35-55 percent over last year. Cotton production, however,
remained at its previous level. Civil works and road construction, although
somewhat behind schedule, are proceeding well.
Loan No. 1610-MAI             Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 1, 1978; Closing Date:
July 1, 1983
The project provides foreign exchange for financing medium- to
large-scale industrial and agro-industrial investments, and will help INDEBANK
consolidate its policies and procedures and develop project promotion. To date,
US$1.5 million has been committed for four subprojects and 0.9 million has been
disbursed for three subprojects. More commitments are expected shortly.
Credit No. 857-MAI           National Rural Development Program,
Phase I; US$22.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 5, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is assisting the Government in implementing the first phase
of Malawi's National Rural Development Program. Over a five-year period it aims
to increase output of maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco and rice, and expand
milk and meat production.   It will strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's
Central Service, four existing Management Units and establish eight new
development areas. It will also complete the consolidation phase of the Lilongwe
Land Development Program.  The project is cofinanced by CIDA, DEG, EDF, and ODM.
It is proceeding satisfactorily except for staffing and recurrent financing
problems which are being addressed within the context of the Structural Adjustment
Loan.



- 30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit No. 910-MAI            Third Education Project; US$14.5 Million Credit of
EEC Credit No. 12-MAI         June 19, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  September 4,
1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in Improving and expanding
primary and secondary education and management of education. Its major components
include constructing primary schools, improving and expanding primary and
secondary teacher training schools, providing primary school textbooks;
establishing an Institute of Education; assisting school inspectorates; and
providing for educational studies. An EEC Special Action Credit of US$7.5 million
was made available to the project. Implementation is proceeding well and on
time. Primary school construction has been initiated and other items are under
construction or being tendered. A large number of textbooks have been delivered
to schools. Vehicles have been delivered to school inspectorates. A specialist
in Washington recently arrived to initiate the educational studies.
Credit No. 992-MAI.           National Rural Development Program,
Phase II (Wood Energy); US$13.8 Million Credit of
April 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in its long-term energy
development program aimed at increasing forest resources. It has established a
national network of about 80 nurseries to produce seedlings for sale to
smallholders, who are being encouraged to establish their own woodlots; fuelwood
and pole plantations to help meet increasing demands from the commercial and
industrial sectors, as well as from urban dwellers; and an energy unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture.   It is financing preinvestment activities for launching
NRDP Phase III. Although there are staffing shortages implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1099-MAI           Fourth Highway Project; US$33.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 25.9 million) Credit of February 20, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in developing the economic
potential of the northern region by constructing and improving the major unpaved
sections of the principal north-south road. In Addition, the project will promote
the maintenance of the main, secondary and district road networks and provide
consultant services and training. The Credit was declared effective on July 21,
1981. Tendering for the construction of the major paved road sections plus
improvements of the existing road between Luwawa Turnoff and Mlowe to a low graveji
standard has recently been completed and contracts will be awarded to lowest
bidder shortly. Implentation is proceeding on schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Credit No. 1123-MAI           'Fourth Education Project; US$41.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 32.2 million) Credit of March 26, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: August 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding
secondary education and the training of secondary school teachers. In addition,
it will assist the Government in the preparation of a national education plan to
provide the basis for future development of the education system. XThe Credit was
declared effective August 3, 1981.
Loan No. 2026-MAI              Structural Adjustment Loan; US$45.0 Million Equivalent
Loan of June 25, 1981; Date of Effectiveness:
September 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan will provide support for the Government's program of economic
recovery. The structural adjustment program is designed to diversify the export
base, encourage efficient import substitution, adjust incentives and 'income
policies, improve the financial performance of the public sector, and strengthen
the Government's economic planning and monitoring capability. The loan became
effective on August 3, 1981. The proceeds of the loan will be used to purchase
essential imports. Applications have already been prepared and disbursement of
the first US$25 million tranche is expected shortly. Disbursement of the
remaining US$20 million will take place after a review of progress in October
1981.
Loan No. 2027-MAI              Technical Assistance Project; US$1.0 Million
Equivalent Loan of June 25, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: September 30, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
The project, which complements the Structural Adjustment Loan, will
help finance consultant services for studies of the livestock, meat and dairy
industries. The Malawi Development Corporation's financial position and export
marketing capabilities will also be examined and strengthened. Other studies will
be carried out as needed to support the structural adjustment program. The loan
is expected to become effective shortly.



- 32 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare                       9 months
(b)  Prepared by                                 Government
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA                 February 1980
(d)  First IDA mission                           June 1980
(e)  Appraisal mission departure                 September 1980
(f)  Negotiations                                September 1981
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness               90 days after date
of signature
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions of the Credit
(a)  The Government would employ training consultants for the in-service
training program and continuation of the farmer's training program,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to the Association (para. 40).
(b)  The Government would, not later than March 31, 1982, employ a Senior
Technical Assistant for the Pilot Burley Scheme whose qualifications
and experience shall be acceptable to the Association (para. 42).
(c)  The Government would, not later than June 30, 1982, prepare and furnish
to the Association for comment its program for in-service training
(para. 40).
(d)  The Government would, not later than December 31, 1981, have concluded
financial arrangements satisfactory to the Association between the'
Government and ADMARC for the marketing component of the project
(para. 43).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  The Government would pay into the Farmer's Credit Fund under the
project an amount of up to MK 125,000, at a time to be determined in
consultation with the Association (para. 43).
(f)  The Government would, not later than September 30, 1982, take the
necessary measures to obtain appropriate written approvals for use of
land for-fuelwood plantation and forest reserves (para. 44).
(g)  The Government would, not later than June 30, 1982, formulate and
furnish a plan for siting of boreholes to the Association for comment
(para, 45).
(h)  The Government would, not later than June 30, 1982, employ a public
health specialist whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Association (para.
45).
(i)  The Government would, not later than December 31, 1982, have prepared
and furnished to the Association for comment a Health Services and
Planning Health .Care Plan (para. 45).
(j)  The Government would, not later than April 30, 1982, have employed a
financial controller whose qualifications, experience and terms of
employment are satisfactory to the Association (para 46).
(k)  The Government would allocate an additional amount of about MK 1.0
million in fiscal year 1981/82, in order to maintain ongoing project
activities; and, this level would be maintained in real terms until the
project is completed (para. 48).






CL UJ  - >        s 
4          tt~                       C
-,                        4-   4 
LS~ 
<LJ:      C4   
LLJ~~~~~~~~~~f IL
4   )= 
rr,~      44 
CC4
'K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L






F,T;; ~ ~    ~      ~      ~    ~     I~ w;rgf  :E5 ;i:    9#       =f: ;J;:I IIfl                                           N  ; i: 0;2:1        ;=  :i.::'?  
2 ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~ ~ K                 L   , fS        s      ft          !j  l He;ffo  V\fSff*01    ;1'f.' : f'      S!  ;  Sff' 
W)- -   iRSi  W     f  Vi  8    4 I L  i-]SS:    ?;   .=    f    fff   fff                             < A,2
..  ,'  -:  Z ; .t S . . i X,t,2 . o ~r::~  8~~R HedWF  N ,   2-'~  '
L  T0  3;   _       S 0 .0   :;       0 :  :     9: 2F3    a 3/!5                                     
0 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ I-                                                          *      :0f:       X : :f    $      f (f' I @     
;0 - ;00f R      f    f      f  0 i  L ff  0 0  S  00;: f00./''-Ci   /r-  '    A VX 2
=  S  =  S  .  .  i:    ;  i    f:   =:     i;    ::: E   :  :/        be              -     ;5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C
4  4  '. J D , I S ',f'' X~~~~~~'                                 C$q'&p   ,Nt
X,:.  -X .........  X  ..... i- ! t-or'    
iE i \; )   \%   S--o ] g_, > . I gA<                                +    2 i  0 t; 0 0~~~~~~-
> ' <   T '    {\>   /       )      /     /             <         t    (    rV          i=D   ===ql '        j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-  /                                                                                                                         / azX 4  3f0t   lJ



