CREDIT NUMBER 1183 MAI
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(National Rural Development Program -
Phase III Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1183 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1982, between
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association dated June 30, 1980 (herein-
after called the General Conditions) with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
Agriculture; and
(b) "MR" means the Malawi Kwacha, the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a ser-ice charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1991 and ending May 15,
2031, each installment to, including the installment payable
on May 15, 2001, to be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than April 30,
1982, employ a Financial Controller whose qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association.


﻿- 3 -
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ training consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part I
of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1982,
employ a Public Health Specialist whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
(d) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part H
of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1982, employ a Senior. Technical Assistant whose qualifications,
and experience shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation and, for such insurance,
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower:
(i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the Project,
including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it, to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to
disclose their use in the Project;


﻿(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
.(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and
when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of Section 3.05 (a)
above, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to obtain
appropriate written approvals for use of land required under
Part M of the Project not later than September 30, 1982.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1982, prepare a Health
Services and Primary Health Care Plan for carrying out Part I of
the Project and furnish said Plan to the Association to comment
thereon; and
(b)   not later than June 30, 1982, prepare and furnish to
the Association to comment thereon, a Program for In-Service
Training for Project staff.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) formulate a Plan for Siting of Boreholes under the
Project with the assistance of its Department of Lands, Valuation
and Water and the District Development Committees in the Project
Area; and
(b) furnish said Plan to the Association to comment thereon
not later than June 30, 1982.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall cause MOA to:
(i) have Project Accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿- 6 -
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditures have been used for
the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said separate Accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures, on account of
which, withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1981, take all measures to conclude the financial arrangements
satisfactory to the Association between the Borrower and its
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation for the
construction of marketing structures under Part E of the Project,
not later than December 31, 1981.
Section 4.03. Without limitation upon the generality of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall in order to
maintain ongoing Project activities:
(a) allocate to MOA an additional amount of about one
million Malawi Kwacha (MK 1,000,000) in fiscal year 1981/82 and
maintain this level in real terms until the Project is completed;
and
(b) pay into the Farmers' Credit Fund under the Project an
amount of up to one hundred twenty-five thousand Malawi Kwacha


﻿- 7 -
(MK 125,000) at a time to be determined in consultation with the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date      4       '" '        , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 10 years after the date of this Agreement whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
The Republic of Malawi
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                            4407
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By          Aa:4 i          "- /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By144:C
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, machinery,            710,000       100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures and
and spare parts                              85% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Civil works other             290409000       100% of foreign
than office and                              expenditures and
grading shed for                             85% of local ex-
the Pilot Tobacco                            penditures
Scheme and the
market facilities
(3)  Bulls, cows and                140,000       100% of foreign
agricultural inputs                          expenditures and
and supplies                                 85% of local ex-
penditures
(4) operating Costs (exclud-      1,660,000       85% of local
ing agricultural inputs                      expenditures
and supplies, forestry,
Central Evaluation Unit,
Survey Statistics Unit,
and Pilot Tobacco Schemes)
(5) Central Evaluation Unit          50,000       100% of foreign
of the Ministry of                           expenditures and
Agriculture                                  85% of local ex-
penditures


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Survey and Statistics           980,000       100% of foreign
Unit                                         expenditures and
85% of local ex-
penditures
(7) Forest Reserves and              90,000       100% of foreign
Fuelwood Plantation                          expenditures and
85% of local ex-
penditures
(8) Pilot Tobacco Scheme            140,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local ex-
penditures
(9) Unallocated                     690,000
TOTAL         6,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof
and to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 11 -
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to October 13, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category
and which, in the opinion of the Association, are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated. shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures. which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a third phase of the Borrower's National
Rural Development Program in the Karonga-Chitipa Area and consists
of the following main components:
Part A:   Provision of Agricultural Extension Services to farmers.
Part B:   Provision of an In-Service Training Program for Project
staff and continuation of a Farmers' Training Program.
Part C:   Provision of staff, housing and vehicles for the purpose
of extending credit services to farmers.
Part D:   Continuation of agricultural research.
Part E:   Construction of about five input stores and about two
marketing sheds and about six staff houses.
Part F:   Expansion of livestock activities through the construc-
tion of about three new dips, rehabilitation of about
forty-three existing dips, strengthening the activities
of two existing Livestock Development Centers, the
establishment of a Pilot Grazing Area and the construc-
tion of slaughter facilities.
Part G:   Support for land husbandry activities through the
provision of vehicles, survey equipment and staff
houses.
Part H:   Establishment of a Pilot Burley Tobacco Scheme.
Part I:   Expansion of health services and facilities including
the construction of two Maternity Centers and a Health
Sub-Center.
Part J:   Construction of about thirty boreholes.
Part K:   Continuation of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Section and strengthening of the MOA Central Evaluation
Unit.


﻿- 13 -
Part L:   Strengthening of Project management through the provi-
sion of a Financial Controller and a Planning Officer.
Part M:   Establishment of Forest Reserves and a Fuelwood Planta-
tion.
Part N:   Establishment of a National Survey and Statistics Unit
in MOA.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, purchase of goods and
supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) or more shall be - 'ocured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost more than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent.
3.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than sixty (60) days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request, the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of -he opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf
price of other goods offered in such bid; and


﻿- 1.5 -
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in
connection with the importation or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall
not be taken into account in the evaluation of the
bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) all bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) after evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Malawi if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Malawi equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) -Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) in order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in conhection with the importation
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 16 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for
the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or
(ii) fifteen percent (15%) of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed
fifteen percent (15%) of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award, if not, the bid
from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid it
shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A.1 above:
1.   Contracts for goods and supplies which cannot be grouped
in accordance with Part A.2 above and which are each estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) up to an aggregate amount of two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000) equivalent may be procured in accordance with
the normal procurement procedures of the Borrower acceptable to
the Association.
2.   Contracts for civil works, including housing, stores,
offices, boreholes, rehabilitation and construction of livestock
dips and health facilities may be awarded in accordance with the
normal procurement procedures of the Borrower acceptable to the
Association, or the works shall be carried out by Force Account
after obtaining the Association's prior approval.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 17 -
With respect to all contracts for goods and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) or more:"'
(a) before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitation
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders;
(b) after bids *have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,'
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it in-
tends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited;
and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the


﻿- 18 -
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall. if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptlv inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than fifteen percent (15%) of the original price, the Bor-
rower shall inform the Association of the proposed modification,
waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The
Association, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsis-
tent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of A   D    ,
198F                         SC    T
FOR SECRETARY


