                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   Report No: 73111-BT




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                    PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                   OF
             BHUTAN - SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
               GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY TRUST FUND
                             JANUARY 17, 2006


                                                TO THE

                                     KINGDOM OF BHUTAN


                                          OCTOBER 8, 2012




Sustainable Development Unit
Bhutan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Regional Vice President:       Isabel M. Guerrero
       Country Director:       Robert J. Saum
Sector Manager/Director:       Herbert Acquay/John Henry Stein
      Task Team Leader:        Sumith Pilapitiya




                           2
           BHUTAN: SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                 P087039
                GEF Trust Fund Grant Number TF055967-BHU


              Restructuring Paper on Proposed Closing Date Extension

1.    The closing date for the Bhutan Sustainable Land Management Project, Grant
No TF055967, (P087039) will be extended from December 31, 2012 until June 30, 2013.

2.      The project has four components (1) pilot projects to demonstrate effective
application of land degradation prevention approaches in three geogs (2) mainstreaming
and replication of practices for protection against land degradation (3) policy support and
guidance for mainstreaming land degradation prevention practices (4) national level
support for coordination of implementation of land degradation prevention practices. All
four components are progressing satisfactorily. During the proposed project extension,
the Dynamic Information Framework, an in-country decision making tool to improve the
understanding of interactions between the biological and climatic elements, and land
resource use and its management will become operational and institutionalized. In
addition, successful sustainable land management approaches piloted through the project
will be mainstreamed in the ongoing national five-year planning process, awareness of
land management amongst newly elected political leaders will be enhanced, and the
National Action Plan to combat desertification will be aligned with the United Nations
Convention to Combat Desertification ten-year strategy enabling Bhutan to access
international grant resources to implement its National Action Plan. The project, based on
its current progress and achievements, is likely to achieve the project development
objectives within the proposed six-month extension.

3.      This proposed extension of the grant closing date by six months entails a level II
project restructuring. The Royal Government of Bhutan has requested the extension of
the project and, at several occasions, has indicated that the approach to land management
introduced through the project is relevant and suitable for replication within the country.

4.     The Ministry of Finance has endorsed this extension of the project.

5.     This is the first request for extension of the project’s closing date.




                                              3
