E677 vol 2
January 2003
INDONESIA: Health Workforce and Services Project
Pesticide Management and Monitoring Plan
5.2    PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING PLAN
78.    The intent of this preliminary Pesticide Management and Monitoring Plan (PMMP) is to
summarize mitigation measures and best management practices with a view to minimizing or avoiding
any potential adverse human health or environmental effects that have been identified for malaria and
dengue vector control programs to be funded under the WB-HWS project.
79.    Recognizing that all pesticides are toxic to some degree, it is paramount to ensure that proper care
and handling practices form an integral part of any program involving their use. In formulating
management practices, it is necessary to take into account both the nature of the pesticides being used
(i.e., their formulation and the proposed methods of application) and any existing safeguards that have
been incorporated into programs to address potential occupational safety and environmental concerns.
Initial inputs received from the MoH and provincial and district health officials in East Kalimantan dunng
the initial preparatory mission indicated that guidelines have already been developed for both malaria and
dengue programs and that appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure safety to pesticide applicators,
local communities and the environment. Pending further investigation of the comprehensiveness and
effectiveness of existing pesticide management practices, findings and recommended enhancements as
detailed in the following sections by activity are necessarily preliminary and will be revised and refined
following additional review of planned vector control programs to be completed durng a second
preparatory mission in January 2003.
5.2.1 Malaria
80.    Pesticide use in malaria control in Indonesia is predominantly for indoor residual space spraying
in high risk areas to prevent and/or control outbreaks. Reflecting the high cost of pesticides, limited long
term effectives of space spraying (i.e., must be repeated every 3-4 months), and concerns about the
development of pesticide resistant mosquito strains, emphasis has recently shifted to IVC. New
initiatives which are being evaluated on a pilot scale to prevent rather than just control outbreaks have
included: (i) draining flooded fields and marshlands which serve as mosquito breeding grounds; (n)
promoting the introduction of fish species into water holding ponds to consume mosquito larvae; and (mi)
distribution of ITN in high transmission risk areas (e.g., newly developed areas in East Kalimantan).
Larviciding, which is a useful method for control of mosquito's where breeding sites are accessible and
relatively limited in number and size, is also increasingly being promoted. Notwithstanding efforts
towards adopting integrated methods, use of chemical pesticides is still considered necessary for the
control of malaria in the short to medium term in Indonesia.
81.   In completing the ER, the MoH advised that planning of malaria vector control activities includes
provisions for controlled procurement, safe transport and secure storage of pesticides. Only pesticides
which have satisfactorily completed WHOPES testing and evaluation and for which either interim or final
specifications have been recommended are used (i.e., only those pesticides that have negligible adverse
human health effects and have been shown to be effective against target species). Persistent and
environmentally-harmful organochlorine pesticides, such as DDT, which were widely used in Indonesia
am              ACIM



prior to 1992 have now been banned. Procurement of pesticides is subject to close scrutiny under the
MoH's guidelines which provide that pesticides be obtained directly from recognized sources to ensure
that they conform to WHOPES quality specifications (i.e., formulation, packaging, labeling). Although
procurement has previously been organized centrally, decentralization of Indonesia's government has
meant that some procurement has now shifted to the provinces. Procurement procedures will be reviewed
further to determine whether adequate safeguards are maintained as procurement becomes increasingly
decentralized.  Clarification will also be sought from the MoH and provincial health authorities
concerming existing safeguards for pesticide storage and distribution - preliminary feedback indicated that
purchased pesticides are securely stored and that container labeling clearly indicates that pesticides are
intended for use in public health programs and are not for resale thereby making them easy to distinguish
and track. The MoH did acknowledge however that despite these steps, some potential for misuse does
exist in the absence of a specific requirement that all empty containers be retumed to the MoH or
provincial health authorities for inventory before being properly disposal of. Although no problems have
been reported to date (e.g., unauthorized access to storage facilities, misappropriation and resale) it is
recommended that additional safeguards be adopted by the MoH to address the abovementioned matters
relating to pesticide storage and distribution.
82.    The MoH advised that strict safeguards are in place to minimize the potential for accidental
exposure of health workers and local communities to pesticides during space spraying and to avoid or
minimize potential environmental impacts. An important safeguard is the provision that no pesticides can
be distributed directly to villagers. Instead all spraying is conducted by district level health departments
under the guidance of provincial health authonties. Regular training is provided by the provinces
according to national guidelines that cover both best spraying practices (i.e., spraying frequency,
application) and occupational and environmental health issues.  Safeguards enforced during actual
spraying include: (i) spray applicators wear protective gear; (n) prior notice is given to local communities
of impending spraying activities; (iii) exclusion of home residents during spraying; (iv) limiting spraying
to indoors; and (v) prohibiting applicators from washing spray equipment in nearby water bodies (e.g.,
aquifers, streams containing fish). Attention to minor but important details, such as linking procurement
of protective gear with pesticide purchases to ensure that proper equipment is available, is noted in the
MoH's guidelines.
5.2.2 Dengue
83.    Dengue fever is one of the most important public health problems in Indonesia. The disease is
closely associated with increasing urbanization, population movement, lifestyles, and environmental
conditions which contribute to the proliferation of man-made larval habitats of the mosquito vector, Aedes
aegypti, that lead to the worsening epidemiological trends in many distncts of Indonesia. In response the
CDC in collaboration with the WHO is promoting implementation of a broad control and prevention
strategy that includes application of mosquito control measures such as indoor residual space spraying
and larviciding. The MoH advised that while some space spraying is undertaken in epidemic situations,
their control policy emphasizes larval control through community efforts involving health centres and
district health offices who regularly visit households to educate families on cleaning and emptying of
water containers, burying unused water receptacles, and seasonal use of the chemical larvicide,
Temephos, durng peak transmission periods.



84.    Larviciding programs inherently pose few occupational health and environmental risks due to the
pesticide formulations used, their controlled application, and the lower potential for exposure of health
care workers involved in program implementation. Notwithstanding these factors, safeguards have been
developed by the CDC to minimize or avoid potential human health and environmental problems.
Particular attention is given to planning and implementation of larviciding activities to ensure that
procurement and distribution of pesticides are regulated and in raising awareness of potential human
health and environmental concerns among households and health workers involved in program
implementation. Procurement of Temephos is completed once annually by provincial health authorities
and stocks are stored securely. Although the CDC maintains a coordination role in larviciding program
implementation, actual distribution of Temephos is undertaken by health care staff at the provincial and
district levels. Prior to distribution, Temephos is pre-packaged into 20g satchels to facilitate field
activities (i.e., addition of a 20g satchel of Temephos to a standard 200 liter water jar provides the
required dosage) and increase the efficacy of the chemical when placed in water containers. Additional
information will be requested from the CDC regarding safety precautions taken in repackaging of
Temephos to ensure that adequate safeguards are in place to address potential occupational health
concerns (i.e., strict precautions should be taken in handling the chemical such as: ensurng adequate
building ventilation; wearing protective gloves to avoid dermal contact; wearing protective masks to
avoid inhalation of chemical dust; and washing of hands after handling). Clarification will be also be
sought from the CDC regarding guidelines which they have developed to address potential human health
and environmental concerns relating to safe handling of Temephos during actual distribution (i.e.,
supervision and oversight; education of households concerming safety precautions; first aid procedures for
use if Temephos is accidentally ingested).
85.    Pending further inputs from the CDC, it is premature to reach conclusions on the scope and
adequacy of existing guidelines and safeguards. Preliminary findings from initial discussions with the
CDC and provincial and district health officials in East Kalimantan province are positive and indicate that
best accepted practices are being adhered to. Planned follow up consultations with CDC will be
completed in reviewing the comprehensiveness and inclusiveness of existing guidelines and safeguards.
Specific issues to be examined include: (i) toxicity and hazard posed by pesticides in current use; (n)
adequacy of provisions for the safe transport and secure storage of pesticide concentrates; (iii) allocation
of responsibilities for super-vision of pesticide application; (iv) safety training and occupational and
human health precautions; and (v) environmental education   for local communities.   Final
recommendations are expected to focus on possible enhancements to existing guidelines and safeguards
and on the adoption of additional monitoring and evaluation measures to demonstrate ongoing
compliance with safeguards.



