Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB21
Project Name               INDONESIA-Health Workforce and Services
Region                     East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                     Health (70%); Tertiary education (15%); Sub-national government
administration (15%)
Theme                      Child health (P); Health system performance (P); Decentralization (P);
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (S); Education for the knowledge
economy (S)
Project                    P073772
Borrower(s)                INDONESIA
Implementing Agency(ies)   MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: JLN. H.R. Rasuna Said Kav. X5, 4-9, Block B, 8th floor, Jakarta
Contact Person: Dra. Nasirah Bahaudin
Tel: 62-21-520-1588   Fax: 62-21-520-1588    Email:
nasirah_bahaudin@yahoo.com
Ministry of National Education
Address: Directorate General of Higher Education
Contact Person: Dr. Satryo S. Brodjonegoro
Tel: 62-21-573-1436   Fax: 62-21-573-1466    Email: satriol@indo.net.id
Environment Category       B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared          May 27, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        April 3, 2003
Bank Approval Date         June 12, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Sectoral context. The decentralization of key government functions in January 2001, including
health care financing and delivery brought along two potential challenges, one internal and another
external, that are likely to exacerbate inequalities in health and in access to health care, particularly in
poorer regions. The internal challenge is intrinsically linked with the nature of decentralization: while in
theory decentralization is expected to provide a unique opportunity to bring accountability closer to
people outside Jakarta, and to redefine the roles and responsibilities at each level of government with
regard to human resources development, financing, and service management and delivery, it may also
pose a threat to sustainability in the financing and delivery of social services without the oversight role of
a central authority and a regulatory framework that explicitly binds regions to finance a defined package
of essential health services. This is especially true in remote and less wealthy districts where technical
skills, competences, and managerial capacities are scarce; and where inadequate financing, low quality of
care and lack of consumer confidence have long been the defining features of the publicly-run health
services. Simply put, health services management and delivery at the grass-root level are feared to be
disrupted without political, financial and technical support.
As for the external challenge, Indonesia, as in many other low and mnddle income countries, is
likely to be overwhelmed with increased market pressure and expectations of the well-to-do to import
and use hard and soft health care technologies which are often perceived as synonymous with higher
quality of care. Further, the pending free movement of labor across ASEAN countries will surely open



2
PID
new possibilities for capital, medical know-how and skilled professionals to enter the decentralized
Indonesian health care market to serve the very same segment of the population. The net impact on the
long run is likely to be more competition and better quality of care. However, the short and medium term
implications of this, especially in poorer districts, is not clear. Moreover, there is an increased risk of
allocational inefficiencies, higher administrative costs and fragmented regulatory framework.
Proponents of decentralization argue that bringing decision making closer to where the services
are produced and delivered would inherently increase pluralism and transparency in sectoral governance,
and thus improve overall effectiveness and allocative efficiency. Indeed, the health system governance in
Indonesia has traditionally been technocratic and highly centralized, with very little input from other
stake-holders, thus not responsive to their needs and preferences. Others argue that decentralization is
not a panacea, and it could be counter-productive if new responsibilities are not matched with equal
privileges and if local management capacity is not strengthened. The challenge, therefore, is to capitalize
on the opportunities that decentralization offers while avoiding or alleviating the risks that it may entail.
In Indonesia, there are two key opportunities inherently linked with decentralization:
1. Moving away from a top-down and technocratic mode of policy making and regulation to a
more pluralistic mode involving civil society and health care professionals while seizing the
momentum to introduce and experiment with novel financing, management and service
delivery models and mechanisms. This would entail: (i) laying the groundwork for tripartite
health work force planning and management, including provincial/district health authorities,
representatives of the medical professions and of the population/consumers; and (ii) setting
up institutions and mechanisms for professional self-regulation and public oversight over
ethical medical behavior and practice.
2. Aligning the scope and mix of services to be produced locally in accordance with variations
in health and health care needs across the country and the "purchasing power" of regional
authorities.
Burden of disease and inequalities in health and health care. Like many countries of South-East
Asia in socioeconomic and epidemiological transition, Indonesia is facing the dual burden of
communicable and non-communicable diseases. While health indicators in Indonesia have improved
over the last 20 years, other countries achieved better health outcomes with the same level of public
spending (e.g., the Philippines), or with less spending (e.g China). Infant (IMR: 40.9 per 1000 live births
in 2000) and under-five (U5MR: 51.4 per 1000 live births in 2000) and maternal mortality (MMR: 470
per 100,000 live births in 1995) remain over the regional average. While tuberculosis, malnutrition,
malaria and anemia in pregnant women remain endemic, other problems related to changing lifestyles
such as tobacco use, injuries and accidents, and HIV sero-positivity are on the rise.
Despite considerable reductions over the last three decades, inequalities in health remain:
national averages of infant mortality or under-five mortality hide a more complex picture with large
variations across provinces, but most importantly between the rich and the poor: for instance the
poorest/richest quintile ratio (p/r ratio) for infant mortality and under-five mortality rates are 3.4 and 3.7
respectively. Similar gradients exist by gender and area of residence.
Inequalities in access to health care across different income groups are especially worrisome,
though not surprising. First, Indonesia spends relatively less on health care, about 1.8 percent of its GDP,
or about US$ 17 per capita (US$54 in international dollars). Indeed, Indonesia is one of the least endowed
in the region in terms of physical and human resources for health care, with 0.7 beds per 1,000
population, and 0.13 physician and 0.7 nurse per 1,000 population, respectively. According to the



3
PID
baseline data collected in 37 districts in four provinces, in 21 districts ante-natal care coverage defined as
four visits before delivery and birth attendance by skilled health staff remain below 80 percent. The
average number of physician visits remains below one per capita annually. At present, the problem of
inequalities in health and health care is further compounded by the increase in high-risk behaviors
(smoking, commercial sex, alcohol, etc.), food insecurity and inadequate nutntion, especially amongst
the poor, and by the decrease in government outlays and/or inter and intrasectoral allocations despite
higher unit prices and unit costs of health services. Further, decreased demand for care, especially for
private care, despite increasing needs is likely to worsen illness outcomes in terms of higher
co-morbidity, severity and mortality as a result of reduced affordability of higher costs of drugs and
medical care.
Second, health spending is not equitable, and most importantly not well targeted to the poor. One
study showed that almost 40% of the subsidies benefit the richest 30%, while 30% assist the poorest
40%, all this in an environment where 75-80% of health expenditures are private, 75% being
out-of-pocket. Indeed, the wealthiest 20% of the population were found to be 3 and 1.5 times more likely
to use inpatient and outpatient public health services, respectively, than the poorest 20 percent. People,
especially the poor, appear to have reduced the use of preventive health care and/or are delaying seeking
care in case of illness, and/or resorting to self-treatment. The poorest/richest quintile ratio for
immunization coverage stands at 0.56, and at 0.6 for access to treatment of acute respiratory infections,
0.08 for ante-natal care visits to a doctor, 0.24 for delivery attendance by medically trained person and
0.8 for use of modem contraceptives.
Third is the under-utilization of public health services despite decades of continuous investment
to expand geographic accessibility. A proponent and avid follower of the primary health care movement,
Indonesia has over the last three decades endowed itself with a network of health facilities, from Jakarta
to the remotest areas, by building more than 7,000 health centers (approximately 25% with beds), 21,000
sub-health centers and about 240,000 health posts. Yet, increased availability of health facilities has not
resulted in increased utilization. The contact rate remains below 30%. This infrastructure is
complemented with some 400 public hospitals at all levels and numerous mobile health units.
Nonetheless, there has been a steady decline in the bed/population ratio over the last decade, new
investments not catching up with population growth and aging. More worrisome is the fact that those
who are more likely to get sick and to have been affected by the recent economic crisis (the poor, fixed
income, women and elderly) seem to have opted for self-treatment instead of using public health services
despite reduced disposable income, a sign of lack of confidence in, or satisfaction with public health
services, and perceived low quality. On the other hand, the wealthier and/or the better insured seeks
health care abroad: according to a new study on private health care in Indonesia, in 2000 approximately
160,000 patients received care overseas at an estimated cost of $300 million, more than the total public
health budget for that year. This may also be partly due to limited development of the capital intensive
privately provided inpatient care, due to a number of reasons including lack of financial incentives, lack
of risk pooling through private insurance, high taxation and affordability.
Many of the health sector issues, such as unsustainable public health financing and inefficiencies
in service provision mostly stem from the structural and organizational issues that have for long
compromised system performance. The latter included: (i) full-scale commitment to developing a
normative primary health care network without enough innovation, small-scale experimentation and
adaptation through trial and error; (ii) too much reliance on putting together the hardware, with less
emphasis on institutional mechanisms and "software"; (iii) chronic under-funding of government health
services; (iv) allowance for part-time private practice of salaried health professionals on government
payroll; (v) top-down planning and budgeting, partly because of lack of skills and competence at lower
levels; and (vi) high degree of reliance on uniformly-applied, normative and rigid service delivery



4
PID
procedures/algorithms with limited flexibility for local tailoring.
Health workforce deployment; skills mix and distribution of doctors, midwives and nurses. There
are approximately 44,000 doctors in Indonesia, including some 9,000 specialists, or about one doctor per
6-7 thousand population. More than 80 percent of graduates are absorbed by the PTT program, a
three-year compulsory contractual arrangement whereby new doctors are assigned for practice in a
primary health care setting. Salaries paid varied considerably according to locale, but they were in
general very low. Since decentralization, salaries are higher but continue to depend on locales. In
Jakarta a physician receives Rp 1.5 million monthly, in Jambi Rp 1.2-1.3 million, in Kalimantan Rp 2-2.5
million. Despite the PTT policy, many remote localities remain under serviced, with less than one
physician per puskesmas. The realities of remote practice can be onerous: on-call responsibility - often
24 hours, 7 days a week that can lead to bum out; an inadequate environment for service delivery
including inadequate diagnostic and treatment equipment relevant to local population needs; isolation
and insufficient access to other general practice doctors; lack of specialist services and long distances and
inadequate transportation to a referral center; and restricted mobility during personal time, poor living
conditions and social amenities. While PTT doctors are allowed to supplement their salary income by
seeing patients during off-hours in their private practice, the practice increases workload, distorts equity -
especially in communities with high poverty levels, limits additional income doctors can earn, and does
not address the non-financial issues that equally affect physician morale, motivation and desire to serve
in remote areas.
The competence, quality and status of first-line health service workers are critical. The ratio of
General Practice (GP) doctors to specialists in Indonesia is about four to one. GPs have ill-defined roles
that seem to depend on the situation. In health centers they are expected to assume the role of a primary
health care team leader, but typically spend most of their time on administrative work. In hospitals, they
may be left alone to do nothing more than triage, or be required to cover for or even replace specialty
doctors. Their training does not equip them well for any of these tasks. Nurses and midwives seem to
have a more active practice than general practitioners (although nurses do not have license to practice).
Health facilities are staffed by nursing and midwifery personnel trained mainly below university level.
Sixty percent of the nursing work force comprises vocational level nurses with three years of training
post junior high school. This vocational level was initiated in 1975 and is now being curtailed. The
remaining 40% of nurses - and significantly fewer midwives - graduated with a three-year diploma post
high school and at the baccalaureate level. The overwhelming majority of Midwives (96%) are trained at
a one-year diploma level and almost 4% are trained at the three-year diploma, professional midwife level.
Health workforce production. In Indonesia, there are 15 publicly and 25 privately financed
medical schools, producing approximately 2,500 doctors and training around 500 specialists in some 24
specialties every year. Student fees comprise most of the costs of under-graduate education and
post-graduate residency training. Nonetheless, despite its limited resources, GOI still spends around
US$13,000 per student enrolled in public medical schools, and about US$2,000 for those in private
medical schools. Tuition fees for medical education range from about Rp 18 - 65 million for the
combined four-year education in basic medical sciences and two-year clinical training, depending on
whether the training institution is public or private.
At present, there exists little cooperation between the Faculties of Medicine and MONE which
are the 'producers' of health professionals and the Ministry of Health and Provincial Health Departments
which are the 'consumers' of those professionals. Undergraduate medical education is divided into two
separate components: an academic one (pre-clinical) under the responsibility of MONE and delivered by
basic sciences departments and a professional one (clinical) under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Health and provided by specialists. Post-graduate education or specialty training is under the authority of



5
PID
professional associations. Until recently, the Consortium of Health Sciences (CHS), composed of
representatives of MONE, MOH, IMA and Faculties of Medicine, had a role in designing, implementing
and monitoring medical curricula and programs. A joint MONE-MOH decree in March 2001 dismantled
the Consortium of Health Sciences, and delegated medical education to the Indonesian Medical
Association and the Professional Associations of Specialists who now exert considerable influence on
training of undergraduate medical students. The future Medical Council - a draft law is before the
Parliament, albeit for quite a while - is expected to put in place adequate mechanisms to assure better
communication between these stake-holders.
Until recently, graduates from privately-financed medical schools had to sit national
examinations conducted by a publicly-financed medical school to obtain a license to practice. This
policy was deemed unfair by some private medical schools where under-graduate training is longer
and/or more stringent than their public equivalents, and the requirement increased the workload and
stretched the capacity of public medical schools, creating long waiting times and reports of unethical
practices in scheduling and taking individual exams. However, the decision to remove the requirement
left Indonesia without any national examination mechanism for ensuring a common standard for
undergraduate medical education. Since public universities, with their medical schools, are moving
towards autonomous board governance status, and private universities already have such status, the
absence of a national examination to certify the competence of new graduates is a major stumbling block
in assuring standardization in medical education and licensing.
Residency towards a specialist degree typically requires seven or eight semesters of further
training conducted at university teaching hospitals with input from the relevant Medical College of
Specialists. The fees are estimated to amount approximately Rp 28-32 million, but is markedly higher in
more prestigious settings and for more coveted specialties. By decree, certification is awarded by the
Colleges of Associations of Specialists.
Despite high tuition fees, the requirement for compulsory service in remote areas, relatively
modest official salaries of doctors and low prospects for specialty training, the demand for medical
school education appears strong. To be a GP, and more so, to hold a speciality designation, remains
socially and economically valuable. The MONE is constantly pressed to approve the development of
new medical schools. The establishment of medical schools is a major undertaking that requires
extensive investment in human as well as physical resources. However, investments can only be
effective if they are accompanied by a nation-wide effort to regulate and assure quality of production of
doctors through improved quality of training, in terms of both content and methodology, more stringent
regulation of the medical profession that would require closer collaboration between MOH, MONE and
IMA.
The health workforce issues need to be addressed for all health workers, not just for doctors,
midwives and nurses. The way in which the full range of health workers is treated affects the
performance of the sector and the ability of its workers to effectively treat and care for patients. In
addition, strengthening capacity for human resource management in health needs to be linked with wider
civil service reforms. Reforms in health sector personnel administration require linkage to the larger
context of reforms in the civil service as a whole if they are to be acceptable. The MENPAN (civil
reform initiatives) has identified a number of issues characterizing the personnel administration system in
government, and proposed a framework for refonning the government-wide civil service personnel
system in the context of decentralization which is applicable to the health sector. In the meantime,
however, there is an urgent need to increase both the quality and quantity of medical doctors given the
current shortage, the inequalities in their distribution, and the increasing number of medical faculties and
the demands for establishing more since the onset of decentralization.



6
PID
Government strategy. In 1999 Ministry of Health has approved a new long term health strategy,
"Healthy Indonesia 2010" based on four pillars for national health development: (i) the "healthy
paradigm" reflecting a broader understanding of health and emphasizing health promotion; (ii)
"professionalism", focusing entirely on human resources development; (iii) Community Managed Health
Care Program (JPKM) and what is needed to lay the legal groundwork and adequate funding; and (iv)
decentralization, particularly definition of boundaries, management guidelines and the associated human
resource policies. Since the onset of decentralization, MOH has begun the process of self-adjustment, or
more specifically, of redefining its key responsibilities which will include: (i) developing overall sectoral
mission and vision; (ii) building up its advisory and technical capacity for support to provinces and
districts; (iii) monitoring and safeguarding inter-regional equity in health financing and adequate funding
of essential health services; (lv) quality assurance and control through regulation; and (v) surveillance,
prevention and control of communicable diseases and food and drug safety. Understandably, such a
major change in responsibilities bnngs along major institutional changes and restructunng. Key changes
include: (i) closure of provincial and district MOH offices; (ii) establishment of a new autonomous
agency for food and drug control; and (iii) creation of a new Decentralization Unit to strengthen its
technical and managerial support to provinces and districts, and to define performance indicators and
minimum service delivery standards.
As for the Ministry of National Education, two strategies need to be emphasized, both structural
and in relation of re-defining the roles and responsibilities of MONE, IMA and the Universities. First is
the intent to pursue self-governance of Universities beyond the expenmental phase whereby six
universities were given autonomous status. Second, is the increased delegation of matters related to
medical education to IMA, and its constituent organs. Hence the Collegium of Medical Doctors, set up
under IMA in 2001, will be in charge of designing, implementing and evaluating the new intemship
program for primary care physicians, and of setting up the national medical education for new graduates.
In addition there are several reform attempts, all towards improved quality of under-graduate and
graduate medical education such as program-based learning for improved cntical clinical skills and
practice and standardized admission and licensing examinations.
2. Objectives
The primary development objective of this project is to support health sector decentralization in
four provinces for sustainable financing and client-centered delivery of health services. More
specifically, the main objectives of the project are to: (i) improve financing and delivery of essential
health services in the provinces of Jambi, East Kalimantan, West Kalimantan, and West Sumatera to
enhance access to care, quality of care and health outcomes at the district level; and (ii) strengthen health
work force policy, management and development in a decentralized context in order to improve
allocational efficiencies and equity in the distribution and use of health resources in the districts. A
corollary development objective is to empower the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Ministry of National
Education (MONE), and the Indonesian Medical Association (IMA), the three key stake-holders in the
sector, through: (i) assistance to redefine their roles and responsibilities vis-a-vis health work force
policy, planning and management; and (ii) building their institutional capacity for effective stewardship
in fulfilling the functions of policy making, legislation, regulation, quality assurance/control and
technical assistance to provinces and districts.



7
PID
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This project follows the lead set by previous health and higher education projects in terms of its
design and key components such as district fund allocations, support to professional associations and
competency-based medical curriculum development, to name a few. Furthermore it expands its remit by
combining health workforce and services in a new decentralized governance setting. It also extends its
outreach by introducing Jambi, a new comer to Bank's health operations in Indonesia.
The main value of Bank's support lies in its systemic and sector-wide approach to
decentralization, covering all key functions of health care, namely human resources development,
financing and delivery of basic health services. This support is very much in line with the findings and
recommendations of the Health Strategy note (Report No. 2131 9-IND) which focuses on policy choices
in an era of decentralization and economic constraints. In addition, Bank's support to the health sector in
Indonesia remains consistent in its scope and coverage of policy issues, emphasis on strengthening local
services, and cumulative and complementary in its coverage of key provinces as evidenced by the
preceding two PHPs. As such, this string of projects is likely to foster a smooth transition to
decentralized health services delivery and reduce the constraints in terms of financial and managerial
capacity.



8
PID
4. Description
This project supports the process of health sector decentralization in the provinces of Jambi, East
Kalimantan, West Kalimantan, and West Sumatera. These provinces are interested in alleviating the
financial and managerial uncertainties of the ongoing decentralization process, and in seizing the
emerging opportunities for sustainable health care financing and equitable access to higher quality of
care. Therefore, this project intends to improve access to and quality of health services in selected
provinces through institutional support, and increased investment in health financing and human
resources. In this sense, it will build on PHP-I and PHP-H underway in other provinces while adding a
new component of human resources development. More specifically, the project will have three
components, each applicable to all three levels of govemance: (i) improved health system stewardship,
including policy and planning, management and system regulation; (ii) sustained and expanded health
services financing and delivery; and (iii) strengthened health workforce policy, management and training.
This combined platform will be used to improve health workforce quality and effectiveness as well as to
address service delivery and resource mobilization issues. The project's components and
sub-components are as follows:
Component A. District Health Offices and Health Facilities
A. I.  Improved access to and quality of health services.
A.2.   Project management.
Component B. Provincial Health Offices and Health Facilities
B. 1.  Health workforce development.
B.2.   Health system coordination, planning and management.
B.3.   Project management.
Component C. Central Level
C. 1.  Effective health system stewardship (MOH).
C.2.   Enhancing the quality of medical education (MONE).
A. District Health Offices and Health Facilities (*)
B. Provincial Health Offices and Health Facilities
B. 1. Health workforce development
B.2. Health system coordination, planning, and management
B.3. Project management
C. Central Level
C. 1. Effective health system stewardship (MOH)
C.2. Enhancing the quality of medical education (MONE)
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($323.77)
IBRD ($31.10)
IDA ($74.50)
Total Project Cost: $429.37



9
PID
6. Implementation
Project launch is expected to begin in September 2003, and last for five years. The activities to
be implemented during the first year at distnct, provincial and central levels were identified during
project preparation and confirmed at Appraisal. Thereafter, all activities will be based on plans
developed and approved annually by regional authorities as follows: Components A and B of the project
will be implemented by district and provincial health offices (Dinas Kesehatan), respectively, under the
overall direction and oversight of District Health Councils (DHC), Joint Health Councils (JHC), and
Technical Review Teams (TRT). The funding mechanism to be used at the district level will be block
funding through District Fund Allocations (DFA). Component C of the project will be implemented by
central MOH and MONE in partnership with IMA, and under guidance and oversight of an Inter Agency
Coordinating Committee (IACC) and a Technical Review Committee (TRC). See Annex 2, Attachments
2-3 for a detailed description of the management structure for project activities at the district, provincial
and central levels, and a project management organizational chart.
Project coordination will be similar to that in PHP-I and PHP-ll. A Central Project Coordinating
Unit will be established in MOH (CPCU-MOH), and headed by a full-time Executive Secretary. Its main
role will be implementation of the MOH components, and coordination of all activities across central,
provincial, and district levels. A sub-coordination unit will be established in MONE (CPCU-MONE),
headed by a Project Coordinator, to ensure proper project implementation and monitoring of the MONE
component. Staffing of both CPCUs include a planning officer, a procurement specialist, a financial
officer, and a monitoring and evaluation officer. The CPCUs will be responsible for procurement,
disbursement, and accounting for the central level, but will also oversee and coordinate project
implementation by Provincial Coordination and Implementation Units (PCIU) and District
Implementation Units (DIU).
Project implementation will be guided by a Project Management Manual (PMM) detailing
procurement and financial management, while implementation of the DFA will follow the District
Funding Allocation Manual (see Annex 2, Attachments 4-6 for the DFA preparation and approval
process chart, DFA manual outline, and a detailed description of the criteria that districts will use to
prepare proposals for funding). Submission of draft versions of both manuals is a condition for
Negotiation.
At the moment, GOI has two options for channeling project funds to the district, i.e., either
through the provinces, or directly to the districts. Channeling funds through the provincial level will
allow for stronger supervision of project implementation as the province will be able to transfer money to
the district level in tranches, based on physical progress and cash flow requirements as indicated in the
Project Management Report (PMR). A fund channeling mechanism for the District Fund Allocation is a
conditionfor Negotiations.
For activities at the provincial and central levels, the PCIUs and CPCUs will provide financial,
procurement, and implementation reports according to the agreed PMR format and with the same
schedule as detailed in the Project Management Manual. The CPCUs will also be responsible for
compiling all PMRs for submission to the Bank. The State Audit Authority (BPKP) will conduct an
annual financial and implementation audit. A letter from MOH appointing and requesting BPKP to
conduct this function is a condition for Negotiations.



10
PID
Annual Planning and Budgeting
District Level
District master plans have been prepared during project preparation. The plans are based on
comprehensive situation analyses covering community health status, existing inputs for service delivery,
public health problems, and public as well as private sector response to existing health problems. These
master plans will be updated each year, and will be submitted for review along with yearly detailed work
plans. The work plan will document all health interventions in the district in a particular year listing all
funding sources. It will be agreed during Negotiations that the annual budget allocation for health will
follow afinancing plan designed to reach Rp 51, 000 per capita in year 2002 prices, or 15% of the total
APBD of the district, excluding the resources allocatedfor civil works and equipment, as per the
agreement in principle between MOH and the regions.
The District Health Office will coordinate the work of the districts in proposal development, and,
upon approval by the DHC, will submit the proposal via the DIU and the PCIU to the JHC. The TRT
will review the suitability of the proposals and will prepare an executive summary of its findings for
JHC's consideration. After the JHC gives its approval to the proposals, the PCHU will send the proposals
to the Bank for final approval. The whole process will be elaborated in detail in the District Funding
Allocation Manual, including careful timing to ensure that the process meets GOI's time frame for DIP
preparation.
Provincial Level
The provinces and the center will prepare their annual plan according to the schedule prepared by
the Bureau of Planning, MOH. The provincial planning unit will work with the PCIU to coordinate the
preparation of the provincial proposal. The proposal will reflect support to district level activities.
Moreover, it will include activities that because of economies of scale and/or the systemic nature of the
activities should be implemented at the provincial rather than the district level. The provincial proposal
is subject to approval by the JHC.
Central Level
Central implementing units within MOH (including IMA) and MONE will prepare their annual
plans and will submit the plans via the CPCU to the TRC for review and comments. Based on the TRC
inputs, IACC will then approve the central plans.
Flow of Funds. The Project Manager at the central level, Project Director at the provincial
level and Executive Secretary at the district level shall be responsible for procurement and authorization
of expenditures under their respective components in accordance with the agreed budgets under existing
government procedures. When expenditures are due for payment, they will submit payment requests to
the relevant Treasury Office (KPKN) who will issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to the Bank
Indonesia to credit the payee's accounts at the latter's respective banks and to debit the project Special
Account for the Bank's portion.
I-mmediately after credit effectiveness, DG Budget shall issue a circular letter to the relevant
KPKN providing guidelines and criteria for eligible project expenditures in accordance with the Credit
Agreement, including the expenditure arrangement for each implementing unit.



11
PID
Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement. (See Annex 6 for a detailed
description. The detailed Procurement Assessment and Financial Management Assessment are on file.)
As described above, financial management, procurement and disbursement responsibilities will be
integrated at district, provincial and central levels depending on the nature of project activities being
implemented at the respective level. This structure for project implementation and management is in line
with the design of the project which emphasizes capacity building of the MOH and MONE and other
government agencies at different levels.
On-grantingArrangements. This project is considered by GOI as a non cost-recovery project,
and as such districts will be on-granted their appropriations by the central government.
Monitoring and Supervision. A baseline survey was conducted during project preparation. The
PIPs provide the basis for project implementation, monitoring, and supervision. A list of outcome,
output and input indicators have been prepared by all districts with their respective baseline values. The
monitoring and evaluation officers of the DIUs, PCIUs, and CPCUs will be responsible for coordinating
monitonng and supervision activities. The project's implementation progress will be monitored through
the semi-annual project management reports. These reports will contain essential data on the
implementation of the project components and sub-components, and additional analysis and information
will be gathered through field visits during review missions. Achievement of project objectives will also
be assessed through a Mid-term Evaluation, to be carried out by June 30, 2006, and through an ex-post
extemal evaluation, including a survey, that will be produced by the Borrower at the end of the project.
The Survey should be completed by September 30, 2008, and the Ex-post External Evaluation Report by
December 31, 2008, to be submitted in conjunction with the Borrower's Final Project Report.
Joint Project Supervision with PHP-II. The MOH has agreed to consider ways to enhance the
coordination of the PHPs with the HWS to increase both effectiveness and efficiency, and to better take
stock of the lessons learned from previous projects. One option is to conduct supervision of HWS's
central MOH level activities together with the joint PHP I and H supervision missions. Another option is
to broaden participation in the supervision workshops to include provincial representatives from all three
projects to share experiences, especially with regard to JHCs and TRTs, and the way and means district
budgets are allocated through the provincial filter. Finally, stocktaking of progress with the
institutionalization of annual plans and district funding allocations could be jointly reviewed to identify
bottlenecks and how districts have been able to resolve operational issues.
7. Sustainability
In the context of this project sustainability encompasses both financial viability and institutional
build-up and strengthening. At present, the health sector in Indonesia is under-funded, and has been so
for most of the 1990s, despite some year-to-year variations. Average per capita outlays from public
sources remain very low, with wide variations across provinces, and a bias in favor of inpatient care,
increasingly so since mid 1990s. In project provinces, local public health expenditures also vary widely,
between a very low of Rp 18,400 and a high of Rp 230,000 per capita in 2002, or in percentage terms,
between a low of 2% and a high of 11% of local revenues, mostly averaging 5-6%, unacceptably low
compared with the recommended 15% by MOH.
All four provinces and the forty seven districts therein have been directly involved in project
preparation, and have expressed their willingness to participate by providing letters of conumitment from
bupatis endorsed by the DPRD leadership. They have agreed to increase health spending relative to
overall district public spending. Therefore, this project, like its predecessors (PHP-I and PHP-II), will
sustain their health funding at adequate levels, and help them allocate their resources on the basis of local
health priorities and needs. Provinces and districts will estimate their total funding from local revenues



12
PID
and central grants against their project targets for revenue mobilization. Project funds will be used to
complement existing resources, albeit for use in accordance with the regional priorities and annual plans
as approved by DHCs. World Bank funding will gradually decrease over project span with concurrent
increase in district allocations with the outlay reaching 15% of total district budget -- except in East
Kalimantan where the proportion will be 8%, or Rp 51,000 per capita in 2002 prices.
In terms of institutional build-up and strengthening, decentralization provides a unique
opportunity for increased transparency and pluralism in priority setting, planning and resource allocation.
The project will assist district and provinces in particular, but also MOH and MONE, as well as IMA, to
review their roles and responsibilities and set up institutional mechanisms at all levels of govemance.
Key innovations include the establishment and composition of DHCs, JHCs and IACC for pluralistic
health services management including all key stake-holders (consumers, professionals, managers, district
authorities, women organizations, NGOs, etc.), and improved coordination across the three levels of
govemance. These new institutions are expected to have a life of their own beyond the end of the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Two key lessons from previous experience are reflected in the proposed project design: (i) the
need to have a broader system-wide approach (e.g., PHP-I and PHP-II) instead of disease- or
issue-specific (e.g., Nutrition, HIV/AIDS) approach when designing health sector projects; and (ii) the
need to emphasize local level and tailor project design accordingly for improved effectiveness (e.g.,
HP-IV and HP-V).
Provincial Health Project I (Credit 3381; effectiveness date: August 2000) and Provincial Health
Project II (Loan 4629 and Credit 3537; effectiveness date. April 2002)
These two health projects passed over the course of the last two years deal exclusively with
safeguarding effective health services management and delivery during the period of decentralization,
and cover Lampung and Yogyakarta (PHP-I) and North Sumatera, West Java and Banten (PHP-II),
respectively. An additional goal is to help MOH restructure itself to carry out its roles in a decentralized
setting. While it is too early to draw lessons from project implementation in a decentralized health care
environment as such, these two projects have laid the ground work for the proposed project in terms of
project design and preparation, especially with regard to the functions covered (financing, delivery and
capacity building), the level of intervention (district level for planning, management and service delivery;
provincial level for public health functions), the institutional mechanisms (joint and district health
councils) and allocation of block funds.
PHP-I pursues health improvement goals within the institutional setup defined by Laws 22 and
25 and accompanying measures and regulations. The PHP framework facilitates health sector
decentralization, in part by fostering cross district cooperation in health development through the
establishment of a Joint Health Council (JHC) and a Technical Review Team (TRT) in each province.
The project adopts a sector-wide approach. About 70% of the funding is channeled to the districts
through a block funding mechanism to support implementation of district health improvement and reform
proposals. The proposed project incorporates similar institutional design and funds channeling
mechanism.
PHP-I also finances reform efforts through the work of task forces established at the provincial
level. The human resource development task force in Yogyakarta province, for example, has formulated
alternative models for implementing regulatory functions, and drafting of standards of competence for
doctors, midwives and nurses. It has also established criteria for recruitment of members of a council for
improved quality. An assessment of Yogya's health workforce indicated that the PHO was more than



13
PID
40% overstaffed. Recommendations for downsizing were submitted to the Joint Health Council of the
province for follow-up. The proposed project will adopt similar approaches in the four provinces.
The design of PHP-ll follows that of PHP-I. But unlike its predecessor, PHP-ll explicitly sets Rp
42,000 per capita (Year 2001 prices), as the desired spending level for health at the district level. This
target is based on estimation of a minimum spending needed to attain a significant improvement in
health. PHP-HI also includes the training of staff from the schools of public health or equivalents in
project provinces to improve the capacity of the schools and their graduates in supporting health
development efforts. Other features of PHP HI are strengthening of communicable disease control,
including epidemiological surveillance and outbreak response, food and drug quality assurance and
control, upgrading of regulatory framework for health services. This project also uses the same spending
targets (Year 2002 prices) and similar training activities.
The Fifth Health Project (Loan 4374-IND; effectiveness date: September 1998)
The overall goal of the project is to increase the efficiency and productivity by improving the
regulatory framework for both private and public sectors, and the autonomy and accountability of health
professionals through skill-building. It also introduced quality assurance and control mechanisms such as
licensing and support to professional associations in Central Java, Central Kalimantan and South
Sulawesi. HP-V anticipated GOI's decentralization initiatives in its focus on improving the capacity of
province and district health staff and introducing methods for staff performance review, service quality
assurance, and workload assessment linking it with innovations in staff deployment. The project also
empowers selected professional associations by strengthening organizations across levels, piloting new
registration systems, designing continuing medical education systems, and drafting a law on health
council. However, the initial design did not encompass local government involvement and district
service reform as important elements for supporting the implementation of Law 22 and 25. The proposed
project addressed similar health workforce issues with stronger emphasis on involvement of provincial
and district governments.
The Fouirth Health Project (Loan 3905-IND; closed on 31 March 2001)
The main goal of the Fourth Health project was to build the capacity of provincial and district
health offices and health centers to plan and implement health programs and deliver cost-effective and
high quality services. The project was assessed satisfactory at closure, and its sustainability was deemed
highly likely. One key lesson learned relates to the use of the Special Assistance Fund, a kind of block
grant, which in theory was supposed to be linked to the preparation of development plans, but which in
practice was used liberally on the basis of ad hoc decisions. Another lesson concerns the use of
perfornance-based incentives which needs to be based on a broad range of professional behavior rather
than limiting it to the most basic criteria such as attendance and time spent in the workplace. On the
positive side, HP-IV introduced a number of innovative experiments including private family practice,
use of non-medical administrators, managed care (JPKM), clinical algorithms and rational use of drugs.
The last two tools were particularly well received, and they are now part of in-service training curriculum
nation-wide with plans to introduce them to formal medical education, worthy of consideration during
review of medical curricula in this project. It is also worth noting that although there were considerable
variations in terms of project implementation and impact across project sites, including East Kalimantan,
one of the proposed provinces for this project, the latter's involvement in this project was very much
conditioned by their favorable experience with HP-IV.
Safe Motherhood Project (Loan 4207-IND; effectiveness date: September 1997)



14
PID
This project aims at improving maternal health status through improved demand for and
utilization of quality maternal health services in Central and East Java. Two key features deserve
attention: (i) integrated district plans because they are used to identify under-served population groups
and training needs of midwives, doctors and managers; and (ii) the use district block grants by the
Central government and how it affects project financing, including counterpart funds. The project has
used different instruments to establish attractive and sustainable work conditions for village midwives,
who are key providers of services potentially beneficial to poor women. One of the measures piloted has
been performance contracts, in which private midwives at the villages were contracted by the district
government to provide midwifery services for the poor through a voucher system, while at the same time
they were given support to build up their private practices. This pilot scheme has proven to be effective
in improving the quantity and quality of services reaching poor clients. The project has also used
different means to promote the acceptance of these front-line health providers in local communities. For
example, use of coupons by poor households has been shown to be effective in inducing demand for
healthcare and in empowering poor clients. These achievements are timely and relevant to challenges
faced by budget-constrained distncts that are responsible for providing services intended for the poor.
Broadly speaking, the proposed project will take stock of, and build on the Fourth and Fifth
Health projects, mostly concerming medical and in-service training and quality of care, and the Provincial
Health Projects with regard to financing and delivery of health services in a decentralized context so as to
build/strengthen the organizational and institutional mechanisms to ensure service continuity and
safeguard public health functions and activities. Finally, the Quality of Undergraduate Education (QUE)
Project, an education sector project focusing on the quality of higher education in Indonesia, has also
been reviewed for potential lessons regarding the medical education component. While QUE project
design has been assessed as appropnate, including strategies such as competency-based curriculum, early
clinical exposure, community-onented medical education and quality assurance, lack of commitment and
ownership appears to have hampered effective implementation. To prevent that from happening again,
both Andalas and Mulawarman Universities have been directly involved in project preparation, and
views and opinions of both faculty and students have been sought through focus group discussions,
student surveys and SWOT analyses.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  :       (Please see Annex 1 1 for more details.) Potential environmental and human
health impacts examined in completing the environmental review (ER) corresponded to planned: (a)
construction of new small hospitals and health centers, and renovation of existing health care facilities
(HCF); (b) health care waste management (HCWM) practices at HCF; and (c) possible use of
insecticides in malaria and dengue vector control programs. Findings are summarized by activity as
follows:
(a)    Health Care Facility Civil Works - Review of planned HCF construction and renovation
confirmed that these activities do not pose any serious environmental concerns. New constructions are
limited to two Class C hospitals with 50 beds and 15 health/sub-health centers. These would trigger
additional full assessment under Indonesia's environmental impact assessment (EIA), or AMDAL,
requirements. Recognizing that the majority of civil works will involve only minor renovations to
existing facilities at the district and village level and construction of modest-sized new structures (i.e., a
typical village health care post has a total floor space of approximately 36 m2), anticipated
construction-related environmental impacts are expected to be nunimal and are readily addressed through
the application of available mitigation measures. Potential environmental and occupational health
concerns relating to planned civil works at the district level (e.g., construction and or
renovation/upgrading of sub-health and health centers with a typical floor space of 120 m ) were also



15
PID
examined in completing the ER, and corresponding mitigation measures are incorporated into the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
(b)    Health Care Facility Operations - Potential human health and environmental threats associated
with medical waste generated by HCF, particularly infectious waste, were subject to thorough review in
completing the ER. It was determined that risks associated with medical wastes are well defined and can
be readily addressed through the adoption of best HCWM practices encompassing: (i) waste
minimization, recycling, and reuse; (ii) proper handling, storage, and transportation; and (iii) treatment of
waste by safe and environmentally sound methods as detailed in the EMP. The need to address liquid
waste in planning HCF construction and renovations was also examined as part of the ER.
Recommendations conceming appropriate wastewater treatment practices necessary to minimize human
health risks associated with discharge of untreated or inadequately treated sewage are incorporated into
the EMP.
(c)    Pesticide Use - Review of planned malaria and dengue vector control activities confirmed that
all chemicals expected to be used as part of the HWS project have successfully passed the World Health
Organization's Pesticide Evaluation Scheme (WHOPES). Insecticides favored for residual space
spraying and larviciding in Indonesia have been selected primarily on the basis of their relatively low
toxicity and comparative effectiveness and are considered to pose a very low risk to humans if used
correctly. In contrast, the environmental toxicity of insecticides used in vector control programs
represents a potential concem that must be considered in project planning and implementation. Detailed
review of occupational health and environmental safeguards in place for vector control programs in
Indonesia provided assurances that existing stringent policies and procedures will be effective in
ensuring that risks associated with possible improper handling or disposal of chemical insecticides are
negligible. Recommended enhancements to existing guidelines covering malaria and dengue vector
control programs are contained in the Pesticide Management and Monitoring Plan (PMMP).
10. List of factual technical documents:
1. Project Implementation Plan for Health Workforce and Services Project: Ministry of Health
Component. March 2003.
2. Project Implementation Plan for Health Workforce and Services Project from Province of Jambi.
March 2003.
3. Project Implementation Plan for Health Workforce and Services Project from Province of West
Sumatera. March 2003.
4. Project hnplementation Plan for Health Workforce and Services Project from Province of West
Kalimantan. March 2003.
5. Project Implementation Plan for Health Workforce and Services Project from Province of East
Kalimantan. March 2003.
6. Project Implementation Plan for Health Workforce and Services Project: Ministry of National
Education Component. March 2003.
7. Project Implementation Plan for Health Workforce and Services Project: Indonesian Medical
Association Component. March 2003.
8. Identification, Preparation and Pre-Appraisal aide memoires and back-to-office reports.
9. Financial Management Assessment. December 2002.
10. Procurement Assessment. December 2002.
11. Corruption Mapping Matrix. April 2003.



16
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Enis Baris
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202458-4474
Fax: 202-522-7108
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



