E677 vol 1
INDONESIA: Health Workforce and Services Project           January 2003
Environmental Management Plan
5.1    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
65     The intent of an EMP is to recommend feasible and cost-effective measures to prevent or reduce
significant adverse impacts to acceptable levels. For purposes of the WB-HWS project for which
environmental impacts are expected to be limited, particular attention is given to outlining best
management practices which should be put in place to ensure that environmental impacts of hospital civil
works and operations are minimized and that human health and environmental concerns relating to vector
control programs are fully addressed on a ongoing basis during project implementation. Proposed
mitigation measures and best management practices to be put in place by the MoH in implementing the
project are detailed by activity in the following sections. Given that project planning is still at an early
stage, measures prescribed herein are necessarily preliminary and will be elaborated on completion of a
second preparatory mission in January 2003.
5.1.1 Hospital Civil Works
66.    Feedback provided by the MoE on environmental assessment, or AMDAL, requirements
applicable to planned civil works as part of the WB-HWS project indicated that only Class A and B
hospitals will be subject to full EIA. While construction of hospitals with fewer than 200 beds and
renovation of existing hospitals will not trigger assessment, comprehensive EMP must be completed for
each individual project to ensure that potential adverse environmental impacts are avoided or minimized.
Follow up ER tasks will focus on reviewing proposed hospital civil works in detail to ascertain exactly
what environmental assessment requirements will apply and to clearly define institutional arrangements.
Particular attention will be given to: (i) establishing which level of government (i.e., central, provincial,
district) has primary responsibility for initiating assessment of proposed hospital civil works; (n) ensurng
consistency in application of assessment triggers and technical scope of assessment terms of reference
(TOR) (i.e., the same assessment triggers and TOR should apply to comparable projects being undertaken
in all four participating provinces); (ii) clarifying guidelines on the expected technical scope and content
of AMDAL and EMP; and (iv) evaluating existing assessment capabilities within responsible government
agencies. Achieving consistency and comprehensiveness in the preparation and review of AMDAL
and/or EMP were identified by the MoH and provincial environment and health officials as crucial
considerations. Further, feedback provided in completing the ER revealed gaps in assessment expertise at
the district level which should be addressed through strengthening mechanisms for districts and hospitals
to draw upon available resources at the provincial and/or national level and provision of additional
capacity building as part of WB-HWS project implementation.
67.    Typical environmental impacts that should be properly addressed in completing AMDAL and/or
EMP for planned WB-HWS hospital civil works will likely relate to.
* Project location (e.g., land use and settlement; impacts on scenic, cultural and cultural sites; loss
or degradation of natural habitat and wildlife; disruption of river flow regimes, drainage patterns
and hydrology; increased traffic congestion and incidence of accidents).
I            a 



*  Project design (e.g., decreased receiving environmhent water quality due to inadequately treated
wastewater discharges; leachate from poorly designed and sited landfills, stack emissions from
incinerators causing declining air quality).
* Project construction (e.g., decreased air quality due to dust emissions; noise nuisance to
neighbours and animals; damage to vulnerable natural habitat; decrease in water quality in
adjacent receiving waters due to soil erosion and contaminant run-off).
68.    Examples of available mitigation measures which could be applied to address the anticipated
minor to moderate impacts caused by planned WB-HWS hospital civil works are:
* Consultation with local communities regarding hospital site selection to minimize disruptions and
maximize benefits to affected people.
* Adopting design specifications for hospitals that minimize loss or disruption of natural vegetation
and terrestnal and aquatic habitats.
* Incorporating design modifications to address site-specific aspects (e.g., redesign of building
layout in flood prone areas, stabilizing slopes to prevent soil erosion dunng construction).
* Putting in place stringent requirements for supervision and monitoring of construction activities
(e.g., restricting work to daylight hours, limiting noise and dust emissions, safe traffic control,
occupational health and safety).
69.    Potential risks associated with fibre-concrete building materials containing asbestos should be
considered in planning hospital civil works. Recommended mitigation measures to avoid or minimize
occupational health risks associated with asbestos exposure during construction of new buildings and
renovation of existing buildings are:
* Prohibit use of building materials containing asbestos in new hospital construction and in
renovation of existing hospitals.
* Complete a comprehensive survey of all hospitals to be renovated to determine whether asbestos
is present in structures.
* Adoption of proper occupational health procedures during asbestos removal (i.e., minimum
measures would include providing workers involved in asbestos removal with P2 masks and full
protective and safety gear).
* Setting up a decontamination unit on site for workers.
* Conducting air sampling to determine if air in and around the site is safe.
* Public safety should be assured by putting in place appropriate measures prior to removal of
asbestos (i.e., setting up a lOm radius safety perimeter around the site, placing signs informing
the public that asbestos removal is in progress, bagging and sealing of asbestos waste in labeled
heavy duty plastic bags).
*  Transportation and disposal of removed asbestos to a permanent secure landfill (i.e., assurances
should be provided that asbestos is handled by a reputable hazardous waste management facility
and disposed off according to Indonesia's hazardous waste regulations).
70.    Ensunng the safe supply of water to hospitals as part of the WB-HWS project should be
considered in project planning and implementation. Poor microbial drnking water quality in particular
represents a conmmon and widespread health nsk for the general population and a heightened risk to
hospital patients who are more susceptible to infectious diseases caused by pathogenic bacteria, viruses
and protazoa or by parasites. Available mitigation and remedial measures to ensure the microbial and
chemical quality of hospital drinking water supply include:



* Connecting hospitals to proven water sources such as municipal water systems.
* Where no municipal water supply is available, use of alternative sources of drinking water such
as rainwater or potable surface water where appropnate. Alternative water supplies such as
surface water should be tested to ensure compliance with drinking water guidelines and pre-
treated where necessary to remove harmful constituents (i.e., heavy metals and microbial
pathogens).
* Segregation of water use within hospitals (i.e., purchase of bottled water from commercial
suppliers exclusively for consumption by patients and hospital staff while reserving water from
sources not meeting water quality guidelines for non-drinking purposes such laundry and sanitary
uses).
5.1.2  Hospital Operations
71.   In implementing the WV-HWS project, high priority should be given to ensuring that adequate
waste handling and disposal infrastructure and management systems are adopted by all participating
hospitals (i.e., both existing hospitals being renovated and new hospitals constructed). While additional
assessment of available HCW disposal options is required before finalizing recommended disposal
practices, preliminary recommendations can be made at this time regarding generally-accepted HCW
handling and management practices. For example, as already discussed in Section 4.2.1, hospitals should
at a minimum seek to affect improvements in waste segregation practices by putting in place a standard
HCWM package including use of color-coded waste plastic bags and containers to segregate different
waste streams thereby providing assurances that special wastes are being properly handled (e.g., use of
safety boxes for disposal of syringes to reduce exposure of hospital staff to sharps injuries). Further
assessment of appropnate solid waste treatment options will be necessary before reaching conclusions on
the best means of ultimately disposing of the various waste streams generated by small hospitals at the
provincial and district level. Preliminary findings indicate that while incineration is the preferred method
of disposing of HCW (i.e., medical wastes are categorized as hazardous wastes requiring incineration
under Indonesian law), further analysis is needed concerming the appropriateness and practicality of small
scale incineration in the absence of standard specifications for incinerator design and detailed operational
guidelines.
72.    Specific mitigation measures to ensure environmentally-safe disposal of liquid wastes from
hospitals as described in WHO (1999a) should be adopted as best practices by Indonesia hospitals
participating in the WB-HWS project. WHO recommended practices include:
* Where possible, hospitals should be connected to municipal WWTP.
* Hospitals that are not connected to municipal WWTP should install compact on-site sewage
treatment (i.e., primary and secondary treatment, disinfection) to ensure that wastewater
discharges meet applicable permit requirements.
* Hospitals in remote locations should provide for minimal treatment of wastewater through
affordable means (e.g., use of lagoons to achieve an acceptable level of purification, followed by
infiltration of final effluent to the land).
* Sewage from hospitals should never be used for agricultural or aquacultural purposes.



*  Sewage should not be discharged into or near water bodies that are used for drinking water supply
or for irrigation purposes (i.e., infiltration to soil must take place outside of the catchment area of
aquifers).
*  Convenient washing and sanitation facilities should be available for patients and their families,
and hospital staff to minimize the potential for unregulated wastewater discharge.
73.    Gap analysis of guidelines already developed by the MoH will be undertaken in finalizing
recommendations for adoption durng WB-HWS project implementation. As noted in Section 3,
technical guidance is already available to hospitals concernig the handling and disposal of solid and
liquid wastes. Preliminary review of the existing guidelines found them to be generally comprehensive
and broadly comparable to WHO's (2000; 1999a) well regarded guidelines. Notwithstanding, it is
recommended that additional content be added to the guidelines to address day-to-day operational issues
faced by hospitals. For example, hospital administrators interviewed in completing the ER noted that
they would welcome more detailed guidance on standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed in
responding to their responsibilities with respect to HCWM. In addition, consideration should be given to
expanding the scope of the existing guidelines to include medical services typically delivered outside of
hospitals (e g., incorporating specific guidance on injection safety covering all aspects of the distribution,
use, collection and safe destruction of disposable syringes used in community immunization programs).
74.    Emphasis should be given to standardizing solid and liquid waste management practices among
hospitals participating in the WB-HWS project. Many instances of poorly or malfunctioning wastewater
treatment systems or IPAL and incinerators were observed during field visits completed to provincial and
district hospitals in East Kalimantan and West Sumatra. These observations are consistent with the
results of a nationwide hospital survey recently completed by the MoE. Of the 271 public hospitals (i.e.,
out of a total of 407 hospitals asked to participate) responding to the survey, 27% acknowledged that their
incinerators were currently non-operational. Similarly, 40% of public hospitals indicated that their liquid
waste effluents did not currently meet required discharge standards. Feedback obtained durng follow up
discussions with provincial health and environment officials confirmed that malfunctioning HCWM
systems represented a major challenge for hospitals - specific problems cited were inappropriate design
specifications, poor maintenance, lack of spare parts, and inadequate training for physical plant staff
Broad consensus emerged on the desirability of providing detailed guidance and standardized
specifications to district health authorities as a guide in procurement and/or construction of major HCWM
systems such as incinerator and IPAL - these guidelines are intended to supplement and elaborate on
existing generic guidelines for hospital sanitation, and assist hospitals in meeting dangerous and toxic
waste management and pollution monitoring requirements.
75.    Lessons learned from provincial hospitals with a demonstrated track record in applying best
HCWM practices would be instructive in developing additional guidance materials. For example,
HCWM practices observed at Pupuk Kaltim hospital in Balikpapan, East Kalimantan might provide a
model to be adopted by other hospitals participating in the WB-HWS project. Highlights of this hospital's
operational practices were: (i) adoption of proven and readily available incineration and liquid waste
management technologies to ensure their appropriateness to local conditions and assurances of
replacement part availability; (ii) application of an environmental management system (EMS) including
maintenance of well-documented standard operating procedures (SOP) covering all aspects of HCWM
(e.g., detailed procedures and checklists for collection, segregation, and incineration of solid medical
wastes) and corresponding ongoing staff capacity building; and (iii) a demonstrated commitment to



meeting environmental regulatory obligations through proactively seeking solutions to operational issues
and documenting compliance through regular submission of reports to responsible health and
environmental authorities. It is recommended that further examination of this hospital's operational
practices be completed to identify lessons learned for application in new hospital construction and
operation as part of the WB-HWS project.
76.   In addition to striving for improvements in hospital physical systems, there appears to be ample
scope for affecting significant improvements in human resources development (HRD) at provincial and
district hospitals. An important finding of hospital visits completed in preparing the ER was the uneven
application of existing HCWM guidelines. This observation is thought to reflect a combination of the as-
yet incomplete dissemination of MoH's guidelines to individual hospitals at the provincial and district
levels and the priority need for capacity building to build awareness of occupational health and
environmental nsks posed by HCW and to increase knowledge of best management practices. To address
this issue, it is recommended that emphasis be given to capacity building at hospitals participating in the
WB-HWS project in an effort to directly address perceived weaknesses in site-specific HCWM practices
in Indonesia. Specifically, capacity building might best focus on: (i) expanding and strengthening
existing technical guidelines; (ni) ensuring their timely dissemination to hospitals; and (iii) delivery of
corresponding training to hospital and regulatory agency staff. Training in best HCW handling and
disposal practices is expected to create greater awareness of HCWM issues and foster responsibility
among hospital staff in an effort to prevent occupational exposure to hazardous HCW. It is noted that
training should be provided to all hospital staff (i.e., both health care personnel and auxiliary and support
staff) to avoid lapses in HCW practices in daily operations - feedback provided during hospital visits
suggested that janitorial staff who represent a high risk category for occupational injury and have a crucial
role in HCWM are often inadvertently excluded from capacity building. Training materials could drawn
upon both MoH's existing guidelines and the WHO's Teacher's Guide on Management of Wastes from
Health Care Activities (Pruss and Townsend, 1998).
77.    Attention should also be given to affecting improvements in compliance monitoring by hospitals
to ensure that they consistently meet regulatory reporting requirements - inconsistent adherence to and
enforcement of current reporting was observed during field visits and was subsequently confirmed by the
MoE. In implementing the WB-HWS project, additional measures should be put into place to bring about
improvements in routine monitoring and reporting by hospitals including: (i) clarification of monitoring
responsibilities among hospitals, and provincial and district environmental and health authorities (i.e.,
hospitals are often unaware of monitoring and reporting requirements); (ii) promulgation of guidelines to
hospitals detailing parameters to be monitored, desired reporting format, and quality assurance/quality
control (QA/QC) requirements; and (iii) provision of monitoring equipment, consumable supplies and
training to hospitals. It is further recommended that provincial environment and health authorities
collaborate in putting in place a performance evaluation program modeled on MoE's PROPER Industrial
Performance Rating Program. The PROPER program which is applied by BAPEDALDA at the
provincial level provides for regular site assessments of industries to evaluate ongoing compliance with
applicable environmental laws and regulations (e.g., AMDAL and/or EMP monitoring requirements,
effluent discharge permit requirements) and is intended to promote improved environmental awareness
and compliance among industries in an effort to reduce environmental impacts from their activities.
Although the MoE has not yet set a timeframe for extension of this program to the health sector, hospitals
participating in the WB-HWS project should be encouraged to gradually put in place EMS - internal
management systems which promote environmental awareness and a commitment to seeking continuous
improvements - that allow then to demonstrate good environmental performance to regulatory agencies
and the general public on an ongoing basis.



