1PP31
INDONESIA: Health Workforce and Services Project
Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Development Strategy
Introduction
1.     The pnmary goal of the HWFS project is to assist selected provinces and their districts to lay the
institutional and financial groundwork for sustainable health services financing and delivery in the
context of public sector decentralization. Specifically, project objectives are to: (i) improve financing and
service delivery in the provinces of Jambi, East Kalimantan, West Kalimantan and West Sumatra; and (n)
strengthen health workforce policy, management, and development and (ii) assist the Ministry of Health
(MoH) and Ministry of National Education (NINE) to redefine their roles and responsibilities vis-a-vis
health workforce policy, planning and management in a decentralized setting in order to improve
efficiencies and equity in the distribution and use of health resources, and to enhance quality of care and
health outcomes.
2.     The HWFS project will have three components, each applicable to all three levels of govemance
in Indonesia: (i) improved health system stewardship, including policy and planning, management and
system regulation; (n) sustained and expanded health services financing and delivery; and (iii)
strengthened health work force quality and effectiveness as well as to address service delivery and
resource mobilization issues.
3.    Isolated Vulnerable Peoples, or IVP, are individuals and communities including but not limited to
indigenous people that share similar characteristics such as being outside the mainstream of political and
economic power, physical isolation, language and cultural barriers, or part of an ethnic minority. There
are communities of IVP in each of the target provinces with specific needs and issues with respect to the
delivery of health services. Typically they are among the poorest communities in each of the provinces
and by targeting the welfare of IVP the project is addressing health care for the some of the poorest
segments of society.
Social Assessment
4.     Social assessment of the identity, location, and health seeking behavior of IVP was initiated
during project preparation and is still underway. Current bamers to seeking health care have been
identified and further research will provide further information on IVP in each province. This research
will include a description of IVP, their health status, additional information on access to heath care, and
potential mechanisms for their participation in health services planning.
5.     Current research identifies the following social issues as relevant to IVP in the context of this
project: decentralization, inequalities in access to health services, and quality of health services.
Decentralization
6.     The decentralization of primary respdosibility for the delivery of public health care from the
central government to the districts will lead to profound changes in the way that these services are
financed, planned and delivered. While decentralization presents an opportunity for govemment to
become more accountable and responsible to local needs, many provincial and district level agencies lack
the technical, managerial, and financial capacity to plan and manage health services. Without outside
assistance in improving local capacity there is the potential for degradation in health services and
consequent reduced health status of the population.
OF" L           e00       Y



7.     Decentralization, if implemented properly, can improve the delivery of services by bringing
decision making closer to local communities, and by reducing the "leakage" of government funds through
corruption. Past government programs have not been transparent and often communities were completely
unaware of projects and programs designed to benefit them.
Inequalities in Access to Health Services
8.     Despite many years of investment in primary health care, large variations in access to health
services between rich and poor still exist. Lack of access to health services, inequitable distribution of
health care subsidies, and under-utilization of public health care services all increase the burden of disease
on the poor. Health care spending is low relative to other countries in the region and expenditures are not
targeted to the poor. Health care services are under utilized for a range of reasons from perceived low
quality to geographic barriers.
9.     During the field visits, NGO respondents and members of the local communities reported that the
principle barriers to accessing health services include the cost of the service and geographic isolation. As
discussed in the following section, this is compounded by the perception among many of poor service
received at the local health care centers.
10.    A common issue voiced by most of the NGOs and community members consulted during this
research was the cost associated with accessing government health services. Services that are supposedly
offered for free to the poor are often subject to "informal" fees and charges, both for service and for
medicine.
11.    Remote communities have difficulties in recruiting and retaining health care workers such as
midwives (bidan), often the only source of modern health care in isolated villages. Many government-
trained midwives are reluctant to remain in isolated areas without family or other social connections, and
receive inadequate compensation for remote postings.
Quality of Health Services
12.    Many of the stakeholders consulted during this assignment reported a lack of confidence in the
quality of care provided by the public health care system. Many indicated a clear preference for
traditional methods (e.g. herbal remedies, spiritual ceremonies) over those offered by modern health care
services.
13.    Typically the concerns about quality of service focused on health centers. Issues include a lack of
staff, absence of supplies and medicine, and ineffective treatment. Anecdotal evidence suggests that often
health center staff are engaged in some form of private practice and place a low priority on providing
health care to the poor.
14.    As a result, the use traditional medicine and treatment as a primary source of health care remains
widespread. The rationale can be summarized thus: Traditional methods are at least as effective, cost
less, and are more familiar than government services, so why abandon them? In fact, one respondent
made the comment that even if there was a health center across the road, a traditional healer would be her
family's first choice for health care. It was also observed that government midwives, usually young
women, do not have the confidence of pregnant women in traditional villages, who are more likely to
place their trust in older, traditional midwives or healers.
15.    Contributing to the lack of trust in government health services is the treatment of traditional
methods by government officials. Often government health care workers frown upon the use of



traditional methods and its effectiveness is dismissed. Showing disrespect for what are perceived to be
trusted methods undermines the community's receptiveness to modern medicine, decreases the demand
for government health services, and inhibits working with communities in areas of preventative medicine.
Specific Measures to Safeguard IVP
Baseline Data Collection and Monitoring
16.    The project will build capacity in the central, provincial, and district governments to identify and
monitor the health status of IVP. Traditionally the Indonesian government has not collected data on IVP
as a discrete group. Therefore approaches to developing this capacity will be incorporated into the
implementation of the project.
Participatory Planning
17.   In order to capitalize on the opportunities afforded by decentralization, the project will ensure that
measures are incorporated into proposals that involve stakeholders in project design and implementation.
Through the network of key stakeholders identified in the social assessment, IVP can be engaged in the
development of project proposals assist in the design of specific measures to address their health issues.
18.    The proposed project will enhance the participation of client groups and other stakeholders in the
planning of health services. Setting priorities based on local needs and designing a scope and range of
services appropriate to these priorities will increase the efficiency of health service delivery and improve
health outcomes.
19.    Opportunities for training stakeholders in participatory planning should be sought, as this will
improve the efficiency of bottom-up planning.
Notification and Monitoring
20.    As activities are implemented in the districts, it will be important to provide public notification
about the project, its objectives, and expected benefits. In this way local communities can better access
the benefits of a proposed project as well as monitor the expenditures of project funds. Communities and
community groups should be provided with an opportunity to provide feedback directly to the bank on
issues related to project implementation. In this way communities can participate more directly in project
monitoring and transparency will be enhanced.
Financing and Physical Access
21.    The project will address these issues through the development of innovative health care financing
and incentive mechanisms. Options will be considered for increasing participation in health insurance
and other subsidies to the poor. It is expected that improved transparency and community participation
will reduce the incidence of "unofficial" charges and user fees.
22.    Infrastructure will be developed as appropriate in remote areas to improve access for isolated
communities. Options to be considered including the construction of more health centers and the use of
mobile health units.
Human Resources



23.    The project will consider options for increased recruitment and training of health workers from
IVP communities. It is hoped that by recruiting local people there will be improved long-term retention
of health workers in remote areas. Among the options to be considered will be the training of traditional
health providers and developing culturally appropriate approaches to working with IVP.
24.    By improving the quality of health care providers, it is expected that there will be an opportunity
to build trust among communities. Heath services can be designed in a way that is culturally appropnate
and will facilitate confidence building among local communities. Improvements in the quality and
professionalism of health care providers will increase the demand for health services as improved health
outcomes among the poor are demonstrated.
Social Marketing
25.    Cultural and language barriers prevent the dissemination of health information to many IVP. The
project will support the development of culturally appropriate communications materials in order to
improve the access of IVP to health information.
26.    Options for incorporation traditional beliefs, medicines, and health care practices into the training
of health care workers will be considered. Anecdotal evidence suggests that an appreciation of and
respect for traditional practices facilitates the communication of modem information to traditional people.



