Report No. PID10598
Project Name                     Uruguay-Foot and Mouth Disease Outbreak
Emergency Recovery Project (FMD-ERP)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean (LCR)
Sector                           Agriculture (AX)
Project ID                       UYPE74543
Borrower(s)                      Government of Uruguay
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and
Fisheries
(MGAP)
Avda. Constituyente 1476
Montevideo, 11100
Uruguay
Contact Person: Ing. Agr. Diego Paysse
Director Project Management Team
Cerrito 315 Piso 1
Montevideo 11100
Uruguay
Tel: (598-2) 915-5650
Fax: (598-2) 915 4399
Email: payssed@prenader.gub.uy
Environment Category             B
Date this PID update             May 24, 2001
July 3, 2001
Appraisal Date                   June 11, 2001
Projected Board Date             August 2, 2001
Country and Sector Background
Country and Sector Background: Agriculture in Uruguay, including crop,
livestock and agro-industrial forestry production contributed about 6 W of
GDP and 73 W of exports in 1999. About 57 W of the industrial GDP and 3 W of
the services GDP are closely related to agricultural activities. During the
early-to-mid 1990s, the agricultural sector experienced fast growth based on
productivity gains and grew slightly faster than overall GDP. This growth
peaked, however, in 1997, and as a consequence of several years of adverse
weather conditions and other external shocks, the sector later stagnated
somewhat and became rather volatile. Nonetheless, the sector was able to
double its exports over this relatively short period of time through
productivity gains, improved quality and the opening of new, more selective
markets, and continued to provide positive contributions to a sluggish
economy that has shown overall negative growth in six of the past seven
quarters.
The strong growth of the 1990s was also fuelled by increased investment, as
more intensive application of capital to the existing natural resource base
was the only path to real growth in the absence of new "frontier" land areas



to bring into production. As a consequence, producers incurred fairly high
levels of indebtedness to finance those investments, and debt service has
become burdensome because of a worsening income/debt ratio due to falling
product prices during the recent lean years. Indebtedness of the sector, as a
result, increased to about 67 W of sectoral GDP in 1998 and is estimated to
have reached 85 W in 1999 and 100 W in 2000.
An important contributor to agricultural output and exports, the livestock
industry has been and is expected to remain a critical pillar for the
country's economy in the medium-to-long term. According to the Livestock
Comptroller Division or DICOSE (Divisi6n de Contralor de Sevomientes) of the
Uruguayan Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fishery, the national herd
was estimated in the year 2000 at about 10.4 million cattle and 13.0 million
sheep, putting Uruguay's ratio of cattle per inhabitant at about 3.25, the
highest of the developing world. In addition to its key role in generating
exports, the livestock sector employs at present about 10 percent of the
labor force in approximately 50,000 farms that cover 94t of the total
agricultural land. About 69t of these farms are devoted to livestock
production, some 20t to both livestock and crop production and the remaining
11. are dairy farms. Despite its relatively low contribution to GDP, the
strongly export-oriented livestock sector continues to be an important
contributor to foreign exchange earnings. Beef exports alone account for 15 ;
of total exports, averaging 250,000 tons and US$360 million in revenues
during the last five years.
Up to the early 1990s, Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) -a highly contagious
animal disease that affects bovines, sheep and swine- was a persistent
constraint to further development of the livestock industry in the region.
After a successful campaign to eradicate the disease, Uruguay remained FMD
free since 1990 and was declared "free of FMD without vaccination" by the
OIE (Office International des Epizooties - World Organization for Animal
Health) in May 1996. As a consequence, Uruguayan meats exports had been able
to gradually open up selective export markets in Europe, Asia and North
America, reaching a total of US$412 million in the year 2000. One of the
most important gains for Uruguay has been the development of a diversified
demand from countries all over the world. This mix permitted the maximization
of the value of the animals slaughtered. The most valuable beef cuts from
the back quarters were sold to the European Union countries. The front
quarters were shipped to Israel. Meat for hamburgers were sold to the United
States of America, Mexico and Canada. Some special cuts were being sold to
South Korea and Japan. Apart from making possible the best use of the
carcasses, this mix of demand also made it possible to increase the rate of
slaughter of the Uruguayan stock, which climbed to near 20 W in the year 2000
compared to less than 15 W in the years 1992-94.   Many leaner animals were
slaughtered thanks to the possibility of shipping the cuts to meet the demand
from the North American market.
Circumstances of the mishap: Late in October 2000, the first occurrence of
FMD in ten years was reported in the country. The incident was successfully
contained to only one department -Artigas, in the North- through the use of
the stamping-out or "sanitary rifle" method (slaughter of infected animals
and those located within the sanitary radius of the contaminated herd). The
procedure was used to destroy 425 animals in the outbreak herds and several
thousand in the surrounding areas -as mandated by OIE's sanitary prophylaxis
guidelines for the prevention and control of the spread of the disease in
-2 -



order to keep the sanitary status. An estimated US$2.0 million from an
existing contingency fund was used to pay compensation to 1,000 affected
farmers for the loss of animals and income due to the prohibition to restock
for a period of three months, and the disruption of marketing of products
from the area. The isolation of the affected department allowed the rest of
the country to continue trading normally and, by February 2001, the country
had regained its sanitary status, enabling it to fully resume exports to
selective markets within the FMD-free commercial circuit and to continue to
seek new markets.
However, six months after the first occurrence, against the backdrop of a
worsening regional animal health situation in Argentina, Paraguay and
Brazil, a new resurgence of the disease was detected in late April 2001.
This time, a herd in the southwestern department of Soriano was initially
reported as presenting mild cases of the disease in very few animals.
Response through the use of the sanitary rifle was swift as the first time
around. However, by the third day the outbreak had quickly turned into a
multi-foci occurrence within the department and in other adjacent
departments, thus indicating a common viral source in the presentation of the
epidemic with manifestation of uncharacteristically weak symptoms in the
infected animals. As the spread gained speed, it turned out that the initial
response with the use of sanitary rifle technically would be insufficient to
stop the fast dissemination of the disease, as well as being economically
unfeasible given the amount of cases and involved susceptible animals that
would have to be disposed of. By the fifth day, 56 foci had been reported in
eight departments and GOU halted stamping out of cattle, divided the country
in two regions and imposed vaccination and severe restrictions to movement of
cattle and meat products in order to contain the spread, control the outbreak
and partially keep the sanitary status. By the ninth day the disease was
present in 13 out of the 19 departments and GOU extended mandatory
vaccination of bovines to the rest of the country under a regionalized
vaccination program geared to tend first to the most affected areas and
critical herds, such as dairy. As of May 31, 2001, the outbreak had spread
to 18 of the country's 19 departments through 1,204 foci, affecting herds
with a total of 940,000 head of cattle -almost 10 percent of the national
herd- and in which 19,000 clinical cases with 175 dead animals due FMD were
recorded. So far, the outbreak has mainly affected bovine cattle.
Potential economic effects - Preliminary damage estimates: The outbreak
brought to a standstill the livestock and dairy sectors, main pillars of the
agro-industrial complex, and left an already embattled sector of producers
facing the prospect of increased costs and lower production revenues. The
need to engage in a massive vaccination of the herd, in addition to other
direct and indirect costs incurred, has brought grave economic consequences
to an already weak   economy.
Preliminary estimates indicate that damages are vast. The direct costs
involved in the implementation of the initial sanitary containment measures
that derived from the disposal of 6,400 animals (5,088 head of cattle, 1,511
sheep and 333 swine) amounted to a total close to US$2 million. To that, the
costs involved in the secondary round of containment measures through
vaccination of cattle in the immediate vicinity of the affected areas,
followed by a nationwide vaccination campaign covering the whole cattle herd,
at an estimated cost of US$19.1 million, as well as other, more difficult to
quantify indirect costs, must be added. These include the closing of premium
- 3 -



external markets, the disruption of other markets to many of the main export
products, and the virtual shutting down of the meat packing industry -with
financial obligations derived from processing of US$60 million worth of
products now facing marketing problems-, with grave financial and fiscal
implications on the State and the affected producers, industrialists and
workers. Among the fiscal implications of this mishap, it is worth noting
those generated by decreased fiscal revenues due to the halt in the meat
packing industry and marketing of livestock, and increased fiscal
expenditures due to unexpected workers' compensation for laid-off labor.
Government and international response: Government response was swift.
However, late detection of the primary outbreak hindered the results of the
initial method of choice (sanitary rifle) for containment of the epidemic.
It was soon clear that this was a worse outbreak than the one in late 2000,
and as it became very virulent in heavy livestock and dairy producing areas
lodging selected livestock of greater genetic value, the measures taken
quickly met producers' resistance and prompted a revision of the containment
strategy by the authorities. Vaccination was decided almost immediately,
starting with the herds near the border with Argentina, following with the
departments along the border with Brazil and finally vaccinating the rest of
the cattle. The economic authorities have recently sent a set of economic
measures to Parliament which includes the reduction of the social security
contributions by the farming and the industrial sectors, the elimination of
the capital tax paid by farmers and a reduction in diesel-oil price.
International solidarity also manifested itself immediately. Argentina and
Brazil provided promptly 760,000 and 100,000 vaccine doses respectively, for
an estimated combined commercial value of about US$260,000.
Recovery strategy: Given the accelerated spread of FMD, the GOU opted to
undertake a comprehensive vaccination campaign of the national herd. As a
result, a two-year period -after the last recorded case- will have to be
observed before vaccination can be discontinued. After one additional year
free of new outbreaks without vaccination, the country may regain its
"without-vaccination FMD-free" sanitary status that is necessary to access
lucrative export markets. Successful implementation of the recovery strategy
will require not just meticulous vaccination campaigns, but also
implementation of a plan to step up and strengthen the monitoring and
surveillance system and to reinforce public awareness and education about the
issue in order to ensure long term sustainability of the measures taken.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the FMD-ERAP project is to provide technical and financial
support to the GOU to help contain and mitigate the impact of the outbreak of
the Foot and Mouth disease through (i) vaccination of the national herd, (ii)
strengthening of the monitoring and surveillance capacity of the country to
prevent future outbreaks from spreading beyond the directly affected area,
and (iii) identification of alternative markets for Uruguayan beef in the
short-run and restore the country's presence in the premium beef market in
the long-run. The project would contribute to minimize the short and medium
term impact of the emergency by defraying the substantial and unexpected
expenditures incurred in the implementation of the comprehensive containment
-4 -



and recovery plan.
Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has provided continued direct support to rural development in
Uruguay, and the agriculture sector in particular, for several decades
through various operations dating back to 1960. More recently, through its
assistance strategy, the Bank has also been instrumental in the
implementation of macroeconomic reforms and the introduction of sector-
specific policies leading to a progressively distortion-free economic
environment, the promotion of investment and the adoption of technology at
the root of the greatly improved sector performance of the '90s. Throughout
this period, the Bank has established fluent and effective working
arrangements with MGAP and other relevant sector agencies that would be
involved in project activities. In addition, it is expected that the Bank
will provide managerial and technical input during project implementation in
its project supervisory capacity - which has proven to be an important
element of project success in other emergency assistance projects.
Project Description - Project components
The project comprises the following components: (1) Epidemiological
Containment of the disease through the immunization of the entire national
herd with compensation to farmers whose cattle were affected by initial use
of the sanitary rifle; (2) strengthening of MGAP's Monitoring, Surveillance
and Control system, including the establishment of sanitary barriers in key
points of the interior and at the main border passes, and the strengthening
of the information system to track animal movement and sales; (3) Training,
Education and Awareness of local producers as well as current and potential
importers of Uruguayan livestock products; and (4) Project Coordination and
Management.
Project Costs by Component                       Total(US$ Million)
1. Epidemiological Containment
Program                                           19.8
2. Monitoring, Surveillance &
Control                                          3.1
3. Training, Education &
Awareness Program                                 0.9
4. Project Coordination &
Management                                        0.2
Total Project Cost                                24.0
Project Financing                        Total(US$ Million)
GOVERNMENT                                        5.5
IBRD                                             18.5
Other Donors                                      0.3???
Total Project Cost                                24.0
-5-



Total project costs are estimated at US$24.0 million, of which US$0.6
million, or 2.5 percent, are estimated to be tax and duties. The Bank would
finance US$18.5 million, about 77 percent of the total costs, less taxes and
duties. Financing from external donors (Argentina and Brazil) amounts to
about US$0.3 million. The balance of the total cost, including duties and
taxes, would be funded by the GOU. Retroactive financing would be considered
for up to US$7.0 million to finance the cost of two emergency rounds of
vaccination campaigns one already undertaken in May 2001 and the second
scheduled for July 2001.
Implementation Arrangements
Project Implementation will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Livestock, Agriculture and Fishery (MGAP). The technical responsibility of
execution of the project's components will reside with the Department of
Livestock Services (DGSG) of MGAP and its two divisions of (i) DSA (Animal
Health Division) for the epidemiological containment program component, the
establishment and operation of sanitary barriers and the internal element of
the awareness program, and (ii) and the DICOSE for the strengthening of the
information tracking system of animal movements and sales under the
Monitoring, Surveillance and Control System component. DSG will have direct
technical responsibility for the implementation of the external part of
awareness program. Day-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of
project activities (including procurement, financial management and
reporting) will be performed by the existing Project Executing Unit (Unidad
Ejecutora del Proyecto, UEP) of the on-going World Bank-financed Loan 3697-UR
"Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project"
(PRENADER). Stakeholders' and private sector participation at both central
and departmental levels will be through the advisory input in project
planning and implementation monitoring of the National Honorary Commission
for Animal Health (CONAHSA) and the 18 Departmental Commissions of Animal
Health (CODESE) which integrate at each level representatives of the main
farmers' organizations as well as delegates from the Uruguayan Veterinary
Society.
Project benefits and risks
The main project benefit is to achieve a rapid and sustainable reinstatement
of a sanitary status that will enable Uruguay to regain access to premium
export markets and thereby allowing for a reactivation of the livestock
production and the national beef processing industry. The project
contribution to an economic recovery of the sector will benefit not only the
farmers, producers and workforce directly associated with the livestock
industry, but is likely to have a positive impact on GOU' s revenue and
fiscal positions as a result of a revived livestock sector. The main risks
are associated with the deteriorating sanitary situation in the region, and
the effectiveness of similar efforts in neighboring countries, which will
require extreme caution to avoid recurrence of the current problem. However,
a regional task force has been created in order to coordinate efforts and to
ensure maximum efficiency of the measures currently being taken in the region
to restore FMD-free status. Project activities will directly support these
measures.
-6-



Sustainability
Sustainability of project outcome would be achieved as a result of the
integrated approach being implemented. The program encompasses activities
directed towards quick containment of the outbreak, improved conditions for
producer compliance to mandatory sanitary measures, strengthening of the
monitoring and surveillance activities and heightening of public and producer
awareness. This would be of utmost importance to regain efficiency and self-
control of the voluntary epidemiological warning system, as well as increased
support by the public in general to the maintenance of the FMD-free sanitary
status.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Despite the Bank's longstanding relationship with GOU in support of the
sector, no lessons learned from past operations in the country are directly
applicable to this operation. Bank-wide experience of successful emergency
operations that was incorporated into the design of the FMD-ERAP include:
(i) the rapidity of appraisal and implementation is crucial to project
success; (ii) the need for simple and flexible design consistent with the
borrower's institutional capacity to prepare and implement projects; (iii)
strong government commitment; (iv) procurement needs to be flexible and
procurement management should start early; and (v) investing in measures that
enable the Borrower to be better prepared to mitigate the effects of future
disasters.
Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N/A
Environment Aspects
No major environmental or social issues are foreseen under the project
except for (i) the appropriate burial (to avoid groundwater contamination) or
other disposal of slaughtered livestock carcasses (if and when slaughtering
might be needed to control possible new disease outbreaks) and (ii) disposal
of disinfecting chemicals (such as iodine and sodium hydroxide) at
decontamination checkpoints. So far, strict guidelines of PANAFTOSA (Pan
American Foot and Mouth Disease Center) and agreed upon by the Mercosur
countries for the destruction of animals and disposal of carcasses have been
followed. These guidelines will be incorporated in the project operational
manual, and in the event that conditions during implementation would require
the re-establishment of sanitary rifle campaigns, the Bank would closely
monitor strict adherence to such guidelines. Because of the need for
environmental follow-up regarding the adequacy of the disposal procedures,
the project is classified as Category B, but with no separate Environmental
Analysis required.
Contact Point:
Team Leader
Michael G. Carroll
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1-202-473-9528
7-



Fax: 1-202-522-3132
Email: mcarroll@worldbank.org
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 8 -



