                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001535



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-70700 IBRD-74210)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 25.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                     ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

                                     FOR A

      FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                      AND ITS ADDITIONAL FINANCING



                                  June 26, 2010




Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective as of April 30, 2010)
                  Currency Unit = The Uruguayan Peso (UY$)
                            UY$1.00 = US$ 0.052
                           US$ 1.00 = UY$19.214

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­ December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF          -         Additional Financing
AI          -         Avian Influenza
BSE         -         Bovine Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies
CAS         -         Country Assistance Strategy
CODESA      -         Departmental Animal Health Commission
CONAHSA     -         National Honorary Commission for Animal Health
CVP         -         Southern Cone Permanent Veterinary Committee
DGSG        -         General Directorate of Livestock Services (MGAP)
DICOSE      -         Livestock Comptroller Division (MGAP)
DILAVE      -         Veterinarian Laboratories Division (MGAP)
DO          -         Development Objective
DSA         -         Animal Health Division (MGAP)
EMSCS       -         Epidemiological Monitoring Surveillance and Control Sym
FAO         -         Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP         -         Gross Domestic Product
GOU         -         Government of Uruguay
IBRD        -         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IE          -         Implementing Entities
MERCOSUR    -         Southern Common Market
MGAP        -         Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture, and Fisheries
MEF         -         Ministry of Economy and Finance
OIE         -         World Organization for Animal Health
PAEFA       -         FMD Emergency Recovery Assistance Project
PANAFTOSA   -         Pan American Foot and Mouth Disease Center
PMR         -         Project Management Report
PROSA       -         Animal Health Project
PPTI        -         Individual Livestock Traceability Pilot Program
SEIIC       -         Electronic Information System of the Meat Industry
SIRA        -         Animal Identification and Registration System
SISA        -         National Animal Health Information System
SNIG        -         National Livestock Information System
TAD         -         Transboundary Animal Diseases
TSE         -         Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy
UEP         -         Project Executing Unit

                      Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director: Stefan Koeberle
                     Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser
                Project Team Leader: Michael Carroll
                   ICR Team Leader: Michael Carroll
                          THE ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

                                 FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE
                               EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 35
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 36
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Foot & Mouth Disease
Country:                Uruguay                 Project Name:             Emergency Recovery
                                                                          Loan
                                                                          IBRD-70700,IBRD-
Project ID:             P074543                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          74210
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          URUGUAY
Original Total
                        USD 18.5M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 23.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 23.2M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 MGAyP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/02/2001     Effectiveness:             08/30/2001       08/30/2001
Appraisal:            06/11/2001     Restructuring(s):                           12/19/2006
Approval:             07/31/2001     Mid-term Review:                            08/02/2002
                                     Closing:                   10/31/2003       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                      86                  90
Central government administration                                      14                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                 20                  50
Natural disaster management                                            40                  25
Other rural development                                                40                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                            David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Stefan G. Koeberle                    Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:            Ethel Sennhauser                      John Redwood
Project Team Leader:       Michael G. Carroll                    Michael G. Carroll
ICR Team Leader:           Michael G. Carroll
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Bautista Morelli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objective of the FMD-ERP is to provide technical and financial support to the
GOU to help contain and mitigate the impact of the outbreak of the Foot and Mouth
disease through (i) vaccination of the national herd, (ii) strengthening of the monitoring
and surveillance capacity of the country to prevent eventual future outbreaks from
spreading beyond the directly affected area, and (iii) identification of alternative markets
for the Uruguayan beef in the short-run and restore the country's presence in the premium
beef markets in the long-run.


                                                   ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives of the scaling-up of additional financing activities are in line with the
original project development objectives (see above), while the inclusion of activities
encompassing non-FMD diseases required the addition of a new objective: to prevent the
introduction of other transboundary animal diseases of major economic importance.

  The formally revised project objectives are: (a) to contain and mitigate the impact of
the outbreak of FMD in the Borrower#s territory through: (i) vaccination of cattle; (ii)
strengthening of the monitoring and surveillance capacity of the Borrower to prevent
future outbreaks from spreading beyond the directly affected area; and (iii) identification
of alternative markets for the beef produced in the Borrower#s territory in the short-run
and restoring the Borrower#s presence in the premium beef market in the long-run; and
(b) to prevent the introduction of other trans-boundary animal diseases of large economic
importance.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target         Completion or
                                                documents)           Values          Target Years
                  Contained and mitigate impact of the FMD outbreak to achieve rapid and
Indicator 1 :     sustainable reinstatement of sanitary status to reactivate livestock production and
                  industry.
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                          Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
                  Strengthening of MGAPs information system to track animal movements and
Indicator 1 :
                  sales.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                 iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO                   IP             Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                (USD millions)
  1    12/14/2001       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  7.43
  2    12/14/2001       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  7.43
  3    06/13/2002       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  7.43
  4    10/16/2002       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                12.12
  5    06/16/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                12.18
  6    12/04/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                12.41
  7    06/15/2004       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                13.24
  8    12/13/2004       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                15.65
  9    05/05/2005       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                16.00
 10    05/24/2006       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                16.97
 11    12/27/2006       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                17.83
 12    06/21/2007       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                18.49
 13    12/03/2007       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                19.31
 14    04/11/2008       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                21.37
 15    10/17/2008       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                22.66
 16    05/16/2009       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                23.16
 17    12/30/2009       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                23.23
 18    05/28/2010       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                23.22


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 12/19/2006               S       S          17.83




                                       iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Most of the 1990s was a period of improved macroeconomic performance in Uruguay: real
GDP growth averaged 4.4 percent per annum between 1990 - 1994, followed by a short
downturn in economic activity as a result of the 1995 economic recession (1.4 percent decline in
GDP), and bouncing back again to a healthy average 5.1 per cent growth per annum during 1996
-1998. Recession hit the country again in 1999 as result of a major devaluation in Brazil and
weak commodity prices, further aggravated by the onset of a severe drought during the second
semester of that year. The economy declined by about 2.8 percent, in 1999, and by a further 1.1
percent in 2000.
The agricultural sector experienced fast growth during the last two decades. By 2000, the
agricultural sector's contribution to GDP was about 10 percent. During the early 1990s, the
agricultural sector experienced fast growth based on productivity gains, growing faster than the
overall GDP. The sector, which is strongly export-oriented, doubled during a relatively short
period of time during the 1990s through productivity gains, improved quality and the opening of
new, more selective markets. Agricultural exports represented about 66 percent of total exports,
of which nearly two-thirds were livestock products. If agricultural sector-related agro industries
are also included, the sector was responsible for nearly 75 percent of the total value, providing an
important contribution to the national economy. During the second half of the 1990s, however,
adverse weather conditions and other external shocks made the sector highly volatile, ending
with a decline in GDP of 7 percent in 1999 and a further 3 percent in 2000.
The national herd was estimated at about 10.4 million cattle and 13.0 million sheep in the year
2000. Live-weight production of meat during the late 1990s was 860,000 tons of beef and
126,000 tons of lamb, while unwashed wool output was about 78,300 tons. Milk production had
increased from 700,000 liters in the mid-1970s to more than 1,54 million liters in 2000. The
livestock sector represented 6 percent of the total GDP, employing about 141,000 workers, in
about 50,000 farms that covered 94 percent of the total agricultural land. Around 70 percent of
these farms were devoted to livestock production, some 20 percent were engaged both in
livestock and crop production, and the rest were mainly dairy farms. Hence, livestock was
crucial for the country's exports: beef alone accounted for 15 percent of the total exports,
averaging 250,000 tons and about US$360 million in revenues1.
By the early 1990s Uruguay had managed to eradicate Food and Mouth Disease (FMD) in
cattle and was declared "FMD-free without vaccination" by the OIE (World Organization
for Animal Health) in 1996. Up to the early 1990s, FMD - a highly contagious viral disease that
affects bovines, sheep and swine - was a persistent constraint to further growth of the livestock
industry in the region. After a successful campaign to eradicate FMD in the nineties, Uruguay
remained FMD-free for several years and in May 1996 was declared "FMD-free without
vaccination" by the OIE. As a consequence, Uruguayan meat exports gradually opened up to
selective markets in Europe, Asia, and North America, reaching a more diversified demand from


1
 By 2000, exports had increased to over US$400 million mainly to Brazil, European Union, Israel, Chile, United States, Canada,
Mexico, Japan, Korea, Canary Islands, Hong Kong, Singapore and Saudi Arabia. Markets of destination for dairy products were
Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Peru, Venezuela, Colombia and the United States.


                                                              1
countries all over the world that permitted maximizing the value of the industry. Apart from
making the best possible use of the carcasses, this mix of demand also made it possible to
increase the rate of slaughter of the Uruguayan stock, which climbed to near 20 percent in the
year 2000 compared to less than 15 percent in the early 1990s. Leaner animals were slaughtered
thanks to the possibility of shipping that kind of beef to the U.S. market.
As a result of the FMD outbreaks in the early 2000 the main export markets for Uruguayan
beef were closed, bringing the beef and dairy sectors to a standstill, leaving producers
facing great uncertainty about future developments. In October 2000, a first outbreak of
FMD in ten years was reported in the north of the country. The incident was restricted to only the
northern department - Artigas, and eradicated with the use of the stamping-out or "sanitary rifle"
method (slaughter of all infected and healthy animals within a five kilometer radius from the
focus)2. As a result of the Government of Uruguay (GOU)'s fast and effective response, the
country regained its previous sanitary status in February 2001, thus enabling it to fully resume
exports to markets within the FMD-free commercial circuit and to continue to seek new markets.
Unfortunately, against the background of worsening animal health conditions in the region
(Argentina, Paraguay and Brazil), a new outbreak of the disease was detected in April 2001 in
the southwest of the country3. By the end of May 2001, the outbreak had spread to all the country
through 1,204 foci, affecting herds with almost a million head of cattle (10 percent of the
national herd), 19,000 clinical cases and 175 dead animals. The outbreak brought to a standstill
the entire rural areas, in particular the beef and dairy sectors and left an already financially
embattled sector of producers facing increased costs, reduced revenues and uncertainty. The
need to engage in a massive vaccination of the herd, in addition to other indirect costs, added a
heavy burden to an already weakened economy. The costs of the vaccination campaigns covering
the entire cattle herd that would follow were estimated at US$18.2 million. Other indirect costs
more difficult to quantify were related to the loss of premium external markets and the disruption
of markets that were absorbing the main export products. The shut-down of the meat-packing
industry ­ with financial obligations derived from processing of US$60 million worth of
products now facing marketing problems - and the scaling down of production in the medium-
term until new markets were opened and sales stabilized, were also expected to have serious
financial and fiscal implications for the State as well as for producers, industrialists, and workers.
Fiscal damages included the decline in revenues, as well as increased expenditures, due to
compensation for laid-off labor workers and expenses for the containment of the epidemic.
Given its long-standing relationship with the Uruguayan rural sector, the Bank was in a
privileged position to provide emergency support to manage the FMD crisis. The Bank had
provided continued support to rural development, and the livestock sector, for decades dating
back to 1959. It has also been active in the implementation of macroeconomic reforms and the


2
  Following OIE's sanitary prophylaxis guidelines for the prevention and control of the spread of the disease, 425 animals of the
outbreak herd were destroyed, and several thousand more in the surrounding areas. An estimated US$1.9 million from an existing
contingency fund was used to pay compensation to 1,000 affected farmers for the loss of animals and income due to the
prohibition to restock for a period of three months, and the disruption of marketing of products from the area.
3
  The immediate response was the application of the sanitary rifle measures but, by the third day, the outbreak turned into a
multi-foci occurrence also in other adjacent departments. At this stage 56 foci had been reported, and the use of sanitary rifle was
technically insufficient to stop the disease from spreading, and economically not feasible, given the number of animals that would
have to be destroyed. By the ninth day the GOU extended mandatory vaccination of bovines to the rest of the country under a
regionalized vaccination program, which gave priority to the most affected areas and critical herds, such as dairy.


                                                                 2
introduction of sector specific policies leading to a progressively distortion-free economic
environment, the promotion of investment and the adoption of technology at the root of the
greatly improved sector performance of the 1990s. Throughout this period, the Bank had
established fluid and efficient working arrangements with MGAP and the other relevant sector
agencies that would be involved in the project activities. It was then natural that the Bank
responded to the economic emergency posed by the FMD outbreak by providing emergency
support for crisis management of an issue clearly affecting the sector's economic stability.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project objective of the FMD-ERP was to provide technical and financial support to the
GOU to help contain and mitigate the impact of the 2001 outbreak of the FMD through (i)
vaccination of the national herd, (ii) strengthening of the monitoring and surveillance capacity of
the country to prevent eventual future outbreaks from spreading beyond the directly affected area,
and (iii) identification of alternative markets for the Uruguayan beef in the short-run and restore
the country's presence in the premium beef markets in the long-run. The project would contribute
to minimize the short and medium term impact of the emergency by defraying the substantial
and unexpected expenditures incurred in the implementation of the comprehensive containment
and recovery plan. Following a two-year period with vaccination after the last recorded case,
vaccination could be discontinued, and after two years without vaccination and free of outbreaks,
the country was expected to regain its FMD-free without vaccination sanitary status. Key
indicators were the regained FMD-free sanitary status with vaccination of Uruguay by 2003 and
the return of Uruguayan beef exports to the premium markets by 2003.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The objectives of the scaling-up with additional financing (AF) activities approved in December
19, 2006 to support the creation of a mandatory and full-coverage livestock tracking system to
ensure the sustainability of its development effectiveness, were in line with the original PDO;
while the inclusion of activities encompassing non-FMD diseases required the inclusion of a new
objective: to strengthen MGAP's capacity to prevent the introduction of other transboundary
animal diseases of major economic importance (including Transmissible Spongiform
Encephalopathies ­ TSE and Avian Influenza - AI).
The formally revised PDO became: (a) to contain and mitigate the impact of the outbreak of
FMD in the Borrower's territory through: (i) vaccination of cattle; (ii) strengthening of the
monitoring and surveillance capacity of the Borrower to prevent future outbreaks from spreading
beyond the directly affected area; and (iii) identification of alternative markets for the beef
produced in the country's territory in the short-run and restoring the Borrower's presence in the
premium beef market in the long-run; and (b) to prevent the introduction of other trans-boundary
animal diseases of large economic importance. At appraisal, the revised results framework relied
mainly on inputs and outputs, lacking monitorable outcome indicators which could be used
during implementation and at completion to assess achievement of the revised PDOs. However,
this shortcoming was resolved subsequent to the Quality at Entry assessment conducted by QAG,
resulting in the introduction of appropriate outcome indicators, including increased exports and
the number of bovine stock identified and tracked as a key indicator of strengthening of the
monitoring and surveillance capacity of the Borrower.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries



                                                3
The main project expected benefit was to achieve a rapid and sustainable reinstatement of a
sanitary status that would enable Uruguay to regain access to premium export markets and
thereby allow for a reactivation of the rural economy in general, as well as livestock production
and the national beef processing industry. The contribution to an economic recovery of the sector
would benefit not only the farmers, producers and workforce associated with the livestock
industry, but would have had also a positive impact on GOU's revenue and fiscal situation as a
result of a re-stabilized livestock sector.
About 50,000 livestock farmers, including over 30,000 small and medium family producers,
would directly benefit from the project's efforts to re-eradicate the FMD from the country and to
regain the FMD-Free Status that Uruguay enjoyed before the outbreak. Farmers would again be
able to maximize the value of their slaughtered animals through the diversification of their
exports according to the particular demands of the different beef importing countries. The
combination of lower prices and a less diversified outlet for the different types of beef after the
outbreak was estimated to result in annual losses of more than US$150 million, with the
consequent reduction in income for livestock producers. In the short-run the project was
expected to assist them to divert their exports to countries that were not demanding a FMD-free
origin of their beef imports, thus enabling them to partially compensate for their lost income. In
the medium-to-longer term, the farmers would benefit from: (a) the overall improvement in the
livestock sector from project activities geared towards improving border sanitary barriers that
would reduce the risk of future outbreaks originating in the introduction of contaminated
materials from neighboring countries; and (b) the strengthening of the livestock's information
system, which would contribute to a better surveillance and early containment system of eventual
future outbreaks.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The original ERP-FMD project (total cost of US$24 million) would be implemented over a
period of two years with the support of a US$18.5 million IBRD loan, for the following four
components:
Epidemiological Containment Program (US$19.8 million), including: (a) four vaccination
campaigns for the 10.4 million head herd of adult cattle and two campaigns for calves (estimated
at 2 million head); (b) the sanitary rifle campaign, financed entirely through counterpart funding:
the project would account for the compensation to farmers whose cattle were destroyed by the
sanitary rifle at the beginning of the 2001 containment campaign plus the partial replenishment
of the Contingency Fund implemented for that purpose and currently exhausted; and (c) purchase
of portable livestock management equipment, to facilitate the vaccination and control of animals.
Strengthening of Monitoring, Surveillance and Control Systems (US$3.1 million), including:
(a) strengthening of the MGAP Livestock Comptroller Division (DICOSE) Information System
to track animal movements and sales, which would include the purchase of hardware, electronic
identification tags to be used on a pilot basis on calves born in 2001, updated software and
technical assistance to design the improved system and train the operators; and (b) strengthening
of sanitary barriers in key points in the country interior, and at the country's 21 border passes.
Training, Education and Awareness (US$0.9 million) aiming to improve the awareness of local
producers of the importance of early detection of eventual future outbreaks; to increase the
information of present and potential importers about the measures adopted by Uruguay to
combat the disease; and to try to recover some of the lost export markets. To this end the project


                                                4
would finance: (a) an Internal Awareness Program which would involve the design and
implementation of training and education programs for mainly small scale livestock producers in
the various regions and the public in general; and (b) an External Awareness Program which
would include: i) visits by Government officials and local producers to key export markets to
explain the current situation in the sector; ii) the invitation of delegations from the main export
market to visit the country to see the control of the disease, and (iii) visits to, and workshops in
the MERCOSUR countries, plus the preparation and publication of relevant printed material.
Project Coordinating and Management (US$0.2 million) to be led by an existing and adequately
staffed and equipped unit within the MGAP. The Project Executing Unit (UEP) of the Bank-
financed Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project (PRENADER, Ln.
3697-UR) would be staffed and the incremental operating costs due to the new role covered. The
GOU would keep the UEP functioning and finance its operation after PRENADER's closing.

1.6 Revised Components
The activities to be implemented under the 2006 AF operation would contribute to the scaling-up
of key activities of the original project, mainly the validation, expansion and consolidation of the
on individual tracking pilot system to the entire national herd. In addition, the project also
included support to strengthen Uruguay's participation in the regional animal health initiative
supported by the World Bank , and to combine regional efforts in combating FMD. The first
component of the original project dealing with the emergency containment of the FMD outbreak
had been completed satisfactorily and was closed. For the remaining three components, in
addition to the activities under the original project, the following activities would be specifically
implemented under the AF operation:
Strengthening MGAP's Monitoring, Surveillance and Control System (US$7.43 million): (i)
upgrading of existing laboratories to improve their capacity for diagnosis and sample testing; (ii)
upgrading and expansion of existing sanitary barriers; and (iii) support for scaling up the FMD-
ERP successful Voluntary Pilot Plan for Individual Livestock Traceability (PPTI) into the
universal and mandatory Animal Identification and Registration System (SIRA), and scaling-up
and full decentralization of the National Livestock Information System (SNIG), to consolidate its
operation at the national level, upgrade its capacity to manage the additional information that
will result from the implementation of the universal animal tracking system, and develop an
operational link with the existing National Animal Health Information System (SISA).
Training, Education and Awareness (US$1.08 million), including: (i) training of veterinary
professionals, working in the public and private sectors, in the diagnosis of FMD, BSE, and
Avian Flu; (ii) organization of simulated outbreaks of FMD and Avian Flu to train staff and test
the effectiveness of emergency plans drawn up by the Government , in coordination with the
Ministry of Public Health and poultry producers; (iii) organization of various events to increase
the awareness among producers of the risks of potential outbreaks of TADs and key measures to
be adopted in case of an actual outbreak, with special reference to FMD and Avian Flu; (iv)
training for the implementation and operation of the scaled-up PPTI and SNIG, which would
benefit MGAP staff, field operators of the systems, and producers; and (v) communication and
information campaign on the merits of the Animal Identification and Registration System (SIRA)
and new, expanded National Livestock Information System (SNIG).
Project Coordination and Management (US$0.45 million) for additional operation and
management costs of the activities, and short-term consultants for studies and technical support.


                                                  5
1.7 Other significant changes

Complementing project activities, the Uruguayan Government started implementing a
traceability initiative not only of beef cattle from birth to slaughter, but also of all cuts of beef
back to their farm of origin. The integration of the SNIG with the Electronic Information System
of the Meat Industry (SEIIC), also known as "Black Boxes", as a follow-up phase of the
project's tracking system would allow carcasses to be tracked back beyond slaughter and would
allow producers to obtain information on the performance of their cattle in terms of carcass
features. In addition to identifying and tracing animals in the event of a disease outbreak or food-
safety event, producers will be able to use this information to compare the performance of their
cattle with national averages.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The design of the FMD-ERP Project, including objectives, components and organization, was
realistic, simple and overall pertinent given the emergency affecting the Uruguayan's most
crucial economic sector. The operation was rapidly prepared as a timely response to a highly
sensitive crisis striking at the core of the country's economic engine, in the midst of an economic
recession that was affecting the entire country. Its design was also consistent with the borrowers'
institutional capacity to react, prepare and implement urgent remedial actions. The pragmatic
approach was reflected also by the use of an existing unit to coordinate and manage the
implementation of the project's various components, taking advantage of its familiarity with the
requirements of external financing.
Relevant lessons were drawn mainly from two sources, from: (a) previous IDA/IBRD-supported
emergency projects in other countries, and (b) other IBRD-supported projects in Uruguay. From
the former, the design adopted: (i) the speed of appraisal and implementation which was crucial
to project success; (ii) procurement flexibility for immediate start of implementation; (iii)
mitigation and strengthening measures against eventual repeater disasters; and (iv) a simple and
flexible design allowing for immediate execution4. Other positive aspects incorporated in the
design included: (i) emergency PDO consistent and cohesive with an adequate implementation
period; (ii) main emphasis focused on the vaccination but ensuring adequate complementary
actions; and (iii) no policy reforms or other similar conditionality for disbursement given the
emergency situation. As a result of the design criteria, 82% of total project costs were assigned
for the epidemiological containment program, 13% for the activities oriented towards the
improvement of the monitoring, surveillance and control system, 4% for training and education
activities, and only 1% for project administration.
After the attainment of the containment targets, the AF was proposed by the newly installed
administration as a way forward to mitigate risks, consolidate achievements, and to enable
MGAP to manage, on a permanent basis, any potential outbreaks of TADs (including diseases


4
  Retroactive financing of up to US$7.03 million, or 38 percent of the loan, was made available to finance the cost of the two
vaccination campaigns undertaken during preparation. This high proportion of retroactive financing was justified by the critical
need to comply with the two vaccination campaigns within a period of one month, and the time constraint that forced vaccination
to take place prior to Board presentation. Once immunization is chosen as the best way to control a FMD outbreak, the first
vaccination has to be followed by a second one no more than 4 weeks later, in order for the strategy to be effective.


                                                               6
other than FMD) that could have highly negative economic effects for the country. Risks
associated with animal health threats had grown in an unanticipated way since the project was
originally designed in 2001, and so had the economic implications for the country of a suspended
access to recovered markets. New FMD outbreaks had been emerging in the neighboring
countries which called for an urgent strengthening of regional surveillance and control systems.
The AF's objective was clear and modest, hence realistic. The new component for AI was
opportune, and its design was fairly simple. The proposed activities were in line with the GOU's
commitment to reduce vulnerability and sustain growth which is a priority even today under the
current CPS. With this AF the Government was able to proceed without disruptions with the
implementation of legal decisions been approved, introducing permanent and mandatory systems
to deal with TAD outbreaks, by scaling up the animal and monitoring surveillance system that
had already been successfully piloted.
A Quality at Entry Assessment was conducted on the AF, rating the quality at entry as
Moderately Satisfactory (September 28, 2007)5. The assessment awarded Satisfactory ratings to
the project's strategic relevance and approach; the technical, financial and economic aspects; the
poverty, gender and social development; the fiduciary aspects; the policy and institutional
aspects; and the risk assessment, while handling of environmental aspects was rated Moderately
Satisfactory due to a missed opportunity to review the quality of Borrower handling of
environmental safeguards during the original project, as well as to bring Borrower counterparts
up-to-date on recent Bank guidelines for handling of environmental aspects during avian flu
outbreaks. The implementation arrangements were rated Moderately Unsatisfactory due to
shortcomings in the project results framework and related M&E arrangements. Project results
framework focused on inputs and outputs but provided no detail on whether or how they will be
measured. The assessment panel considered that a formal stock-taking of lessons learned under
the first operation might have added value to the design of the AF. In a proactive response to the
recommendations of the panel, the indicators were revised to add a set of outcome indicators to
monitor the implementation of the revised PDO.

2.2 Implementation


The original FMD-ERP Project, for the equivalent of US$18.5 million, was approved by the
Board on July 31, 2001 just three months after the onset of the outbreak. The Loan Agreement
(LA) was signed on August 8, 2001, and the project became effective on August 30, 2001.
One year after effectiveness when the mid-term review was conducted, almost 100% of the
epidemiological containment program's targets had been attained: about 55 million vaccines had
been purchased (107 percent of the target); 5 of the 6 vaccination campaigns were completed
covering about 12 million head (the last vaccination of calves was planned for October ­
November 2002); US$13.4 million were already spent (including US$11.3 million disbursed



5
  A Stage 1 first assessment was done in April 17, 2007 that rated the quality at entry as Unsatisfactory. This rating was revised
to Moderately Satisfactory by a Stage II assessment team, taking into account that: (i) the predecessor project to the AF was an
emergency operation and therefore processing arrangements and documentation for both the original emergency project and the
AF loan were streamlined compared to most standard Bank investment operations; (ii) an assessment of the documentation
provided to it, as well as the First Stage Panel report and the comments of the Independent Reviewer who was appointed after the
Region challenged the First Stage report; and (iii) its interview with the task team, other LAC regional staff and OPCS.


                                                                7
from the loan, 74 percent of the total), and immunity had reached to 99.8 percent of the national
herd. Counterpart funds had covered compensations to farmers (US$1.9 million) whose cattle
were destroyed by the sanitary rifle (6,937 animals) at the beginning of the containment
campaign in 2001. The component was doing remarkably well.
With respect to the strengthening of the monitoring, surveillance and control systems, the focus
was shifting from the original simple strengthening of the DICOSE information system towards
creation of a more comprehensive integrated National Livestock Information System (SNIG)
covering all relevant data being monitored under different government agencies. Also, the
originally planned strategy of a compulsory system to track animal movements and sales on a
pilot basis, which would include the purchase of hardware, electronic identification tags to be
used on calves born in 2001, was also being redefined following the advice of the farmers'
organizations. It was then decided to move towards a voluntary Pilot Plan for Individual
Livestock Tracking (PPTI) system including incentives to those farmers willing to adopt the new
system.
At end-2001, neighboring Argentina (one of Uruguay's main trading partners) was thrown into a
deep crisis and defaulted on its public debt after a devaluation of its currency to one third of its
previous value. The crisis quickly spread into Uruguay where, in 2002, GDP fell by 11 percent,
unemployment rose to a peak of almost 19 percent ­ the highest level in 20 years ­ and poverty
peaked at 31 percent. The GOU took decisive measures to establish fiscal discipline, to
restructure the financial sector and to stabilize the situation. This resulted in severe financial
restrictions and delays in the projects' implementation but the commitment of MGAP and MEF
ensured continuity of the setting up of the SNIG and within it, the PPTI managed to keep the
process moving. The project was considered crucial to address the increasing demands from the
international markets regarding food safety, traceability and certified good practices.
Consequently, in 2003 the government requested, and the Bank agreed, to extend the project
closing date for 20 months until June 30, 2005.
In March 2005 a new government took office in Uruguay. The economy was showing an
impressive fiscal performance since the 2002 crisis, which culminated in a primary surplus of 3.8
percent of GDP in 2004. However, after some months of implementation delays due to changes
in the UEP key personnel and uncertainty in relation to the political transition, including a slow
definition of the new Administration's plans, a request for a new one year extension of the
closing date (until June 30, 2006) was submitted and approved by the Bank. In parallel, MGAP's
new authorities requested the Bank for additional financial assistance (the AF) in order to
consolidate the project's improved SNIG including the scaling-up of the livestock individual
traceability system nationwide, and the incorporation of other animal species into the system.
The AF would also continue to support the institutional strengthening of the MGAP animal
health services. Based on this, in order to allow time for the full preparation and processing of
the AF, a third extension of the closing until December 2006 was agreed. By the end of 2006,
95.8% or US$17.7 million had been disbursed from the original US$18.5 million loan, and the
project was satisfactorily attaining its DO.
In order to continue the development of the Epidemiological Monitoring, Surveillance and
Control System (EMSCS) including other TADs, the AF Loan was signed on March 28, 2007,
and declared effective on May 18, 2007. It aimed to: (i) strengthening and improve the operation
of sanitary barriers; (ii) scaling up of the SNIG to a nationwide program, and implementation of
its full integration with MGAP' s other information systems; and (iii) the national scaling-up of


                                                 8
the livestock traceability system, following the successful experience of the voluntary PPTI. The
extension of the implementation period to over eight years, well beyond the duration of an
emergency operation was justified by the resurgence of the disease in the region reflecting a
continued emergency situation that required a sustained and multi-country effort. For Uruguay,
the AF instrument was the best available option to achieve the proposed strategic objectives. It
was estimated at the time that it would take until 2009 to achieve full implementation of the
universal and mandatory SIRA system and 100 % identification and traceability of the country's
herd. The AF could ensure uninterrupted support to consolidate and leverage the impact of the
original project through scaling up and deepening of activities. The approach allowed a seamless
incorporation of activities targeting the other TADs affecting human health and/or of economic
relevance that had gained importance worldwide in the previous years.
The agreed AF helped building the information system at a decentralized level to ensure its
ability to respond to information demands arising from the nationwide mandatory livestock
traceability. The expansion of activities at the national and regional levels required also new
education and training programs, and coordination with other Mercosur countries. Activities
focused on training, education, and awareness of stakeholders involved in animal health, and on
the expansion of measures aimed at improving the coordination and monitoring of animal health
activities beyond Uruguay's borders. The activities were also expanded beyond the exclusive
focus on FMD to include other TADs of growing concern (mainly TSE and AI).
The implementation of the SIRA was a great challenge for the MGAP, the livestock sector and
the entire country. It started within the framework of the agreement between Uruguay and the
European Union (EU) on the high-quality beef import quota (Hilton quota), and was built on the
basis of the project's voluntary PPTI. There was a need to respond to the requirements posed by
the EU in consecutive audits regarding some aspects of the country's group identification
system, and to move toward a system offering greater guarantees to consumers. Much was
covered in only 3 years, lifting difficulties derived from the process of implementing a new cattle
production system, which implied new obligations for farmers, such as the identification of each
newborn calf with eartags, the transfer of data to the database and the availability of operators to
perform the readings. An intense initial outreach campaign by the MGAP (subsequently
followed by the establishment of a help desk) and the very active role, in that initial stage, of the
traceability working group, with representatives of the agricultural trade unions and experts of
the Ministry, enabled substantial advances in the SIRA, which already has more than 7 million
traced head of cattle. The system is developing rapidly and the second phase began already in
2010. During this phase, it is expected that the identification and registration of the national herd
will be completed, and that new legislation will be approved to complement the current laws, in
order to adjust some aspects about the system operation, based on the experience gained during
these last years6.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The UEP was responsible for the preparation, and subsequent submission to the Bank, of: (i)
semi-annual action plans and work programs; (ii) procurement documents; and (iii) semi-annual
progress reports. While arrangements for monitoring project implementation were adequate, the


6
  Extracted from: COOPERATION NODE: Uruguay's Experience in Beef Cattle Traceability, Introduction, Dr. F. Muzio,
Livestock Services Director, MGAP. Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA), 2009.


                                                          9
project results framework (and, hence, the basis for evaluation of progress towards meeting
development objectives) was weak. These could include items such as performance (i.e. response
times) in outbreak drills, achievement of FMD-free status by OIE with/without vaccination,
farmer acceptance, processes in place for avian flu prevention and control, and possibly some
indicator that would assess progress in transboundary cooperation on animal health issues with
other countries within the Mercosur region..

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
No major environmental or social issues were foreseen under the project or the subsequent AF
scale-up, except for (i) the appropriate burial (to avoid groundwater contamination) or other
disposal of slaughtered livestock carcasses (if and when slaughtering might be needed to control
possible new outbreaks) and (ii) disposal of disinfecting chemicals at decontamination
checkpoints. Guidelines set by the Pan American Foot and Mouth Disease Center (Panaftosa),
and agreed upon by the Mercosur countries have been followed and incorporated in the project
operational manual. Because of the need for environmental follow-up regarding the adequacy of
the eventual disposal procedures, the project was classified as Category B, but with no separate
Environmental Analysis required. During implementation there was no need to re-establish the
sanitary rifle campaigns, and compliance with safeguards was satisfactory all along the
implementation period.
The AF included some funding related to Avian Influenza. However, the project's
documentation did not follow or refer to the "interim guidelines for managing potential
environmental and social safeguard issues in Bank-assisted AI control projects" (April 2006).
The guidelines made clear recommendations on how to handle environmental issues that would
actually have helped the task team, representing a missed opportunity to bring the guidelines to
the attention of Uruguayan stakeholders. Also, there was no mention of institutional
arrangements for environmental management in the AF documents, including the mechanisms
for involvement of the agency responsible for environmental management in Uruguay.
Financial management and procurement arrangements and practices had been supervised
regularly and were considered satisfactory throughout project implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The benefits of the project activities are resultant from the minimization of potential losses
derived from the occurrence of TADs of major economic importance, and from the continued
support for traceability and product verification, improvements in production efficiency and
attention to quality, which enhances the country's positions in the global markets. The main risk
involved is the deterioration of the sanitary situation in the region and the lack of effective efforts
in neighboring countries to control and prevent outbreaks of these diseases, which could result in
a recurrence of the problem in Uruguay. For mitigating this risk, a regional task force was
created in order to coordinate efforts and to ensure maximum efficiency of measures being taken
in the region to restore FMD-free status, mainly through specific interventions. A Regional
Animal Health Initiative is currently under implementation, with Bank assistance, in order to
coordinate regional efforts to ensure maximum efficiency of the measures to control and prevent
the occurrence of outbreaks of FMD and other major diseases.
August 31, 2009, was the final date of the third mandatory livestock registration year. At project
closing December 31 2009, the process was already in its fourth year, when the calves that


                                                  10
entered the Traceability System during the Pilot Program or during the first mandatory livestock
registration year had over 4 years, unless they had already been slaughtered. About 80 percent of
the bovine stock is now identified under the SNIG/SIRA. The cattle that had not been identified
on that date should be immediately entering into the System. By November 2009, two months
before the expiration of the third mandatory livestock registration year of the individual
traceability system, the MGAP had delivered more than 8 million eartags. It is estimated that
there are about 70 percent of the bovine stock traced in the system, and the remainder head were
untraced for different reasons, or their trace had been observed.
The full livestock registration would be completed during 2010 and the MGAP, which aims at
assuming full operating of the system by end 2010, is planning to expand the registration to other
species, address food safety issues by consolidating the links with the meat processing industry,
improve the utilization of SNIG information for risk reduction and decision making by livestock
producers, and increase the scope of information handled by SNIG. Moreover, it has expressed
interest in securing World Bank technical and financial assistance to upgrade and expand the
SNIG.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project has contributed to the GOU's overarching goal of sustaining development and
growth in the agricultural sector by assisting MGAP in enhancing animal health. Beef exports
were severely affected in 2001 by the FMD outbreak and subsequent closure of several export
markets when the economy was still trying to recover from the 1999 recession originated by the
devaluation in Brazil. The project provided financing mainly for the high unexpected
containment costs involved, as well as for reducing the risk of recurrence of the disease through
the necessary complementary monitoring and surveillance measures to prevent future outbreaks.
For the project to be successful, the design also included the Pilot Program that was necessary to
generate habits of control and registration among the producers, and at the same time to correct
any negative aspects of the design of the traceability system to implement, and of the related
logistics. It was a combination of interventions that proved to be highly pertinent and relevant.
Successful implementation of the strategy to regain the FMD-free sanitary status required not
only an effective vaccination campaign, but also the improvement in the monitoring and
surveillance system, and strengthening of public awareness and education about the disease, in
order to ensure long-term sustainability of the measures to be taken. Provisions were also made
to coordinate domestic surveillance efforts with those of neighboring countries aiming to
institute an effective Early Warning System, incorporating lessons learned from the 2000 and
2001 outbreaks of the disease, including the reexamination of contingency plans and the risk
analysis, and to allow for external monitoring of these efforts in order to maintain transparency
and the credibility earned throughout the process followed to achieve FMD-free sanitary status.
The campaign to raise the awareness of the producers about the importance of a traceability
system from the point of view of the health and safety of the products to be consumed, and of the
commercial opportunities that it generates in the international markets, particularly in the EU
was also crucial. It was necessary to generate direct communication means between the
producers and the institution leading and managing the Traceability System: it is estimated that
over 2,000 duly trained operators were used to cover the whole territory of the country. A group


                                                11
of 15 trainers, with the cooperation of Livestock Services officers, has been training over 1,800
users, between technicians and professionals7. Also, the complementary actions including
upgrading the PPTI as universal and mandatory traceability implemented under the AF strongly
enhanced the animal health surveillance as well as food quality and exports safety. It was also
crucial to the growth of livestock production in Uruguay, as it helps to access premium markets.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Since August 2001, no new cases of FMD have been recorded in the country, allowing Uruguay
to regain access to markets that had been closed after the 2001 outbreaks. NAFTA countries
were among the markets that reopened in June 2003 with Uruguay's attainment of FMD-free
with vaccination status. Uruguay has worked hard to remain FMD-free in the face of recurring
FMD outbreaks in both Brazil and Argentina that still can't have free access to many markets
globally due to FMD problems, and are restricted to exports of only cooked beef to the U.S. and
many other countries. Uruguayan beef imports to the U.S. have increased at a staggering rate: in
2004-2005, according to Foreign Agricultural Service data, U.S. importers purchased an average
of 157,000 metric tons (MT) of fresh and frozen beef from Uruguayan beef processors, up from
32,000 MT in 2003.
Achievements of the PDO, project implementation progress, safeguard compliance, and UEP
performance, were all rated Satisfactory throughout implementation. The project achieved at its
very early stages the basic epidemiological containment goals related to the 2001 FMD outbreak
through the adequate strategy designed by the veterinary services of the MGAP. As a result, the
OIE was able to declare Uruguay "Free of FMD with Vaccination" ahead of schedule, which
allowed the reopening of major export markets outside the FMD-free commercial circuit of beef
exports as well as the regaining of access to various FMD-free markets. Original targets for most
project activities have also been fully met: the four campaigns to vaccinate adult livestock during
2001 and 2002 have been continued with vaccination campaigns developed until today. The first
four campaigns were financed by the original Loan while the balance was financed with farmers'
contributions. In addition, the project financed two campaigns for calves born in 2001 and 2002,
and with local funds, the additional campaigns since 2003. Upgrading of DSA regional offices,
existing laboratories and the expansion of the program to strengthen existing sanitary barriers
were also undertaken. Education, training and awareness programs aimed at the general public,
livestock producers and providers of animal health services were highly effective.
After these early accomplishments, the focus of project actions turned toward developing and
implementing structural activities to ensure the long-term sustainability of the epidemiological
achievements. AF funds were used to take advantage of the latest technological developments in
livestock information and tracking systems, to establish a state-of-the-art SNIG, and to
strengthen the operation of the sanitary barriers. The PPTI redesigned at the mid-term review in
2002, aimed at incorporating producers in a voluntary individual livestock tracking system was
also effectively validating the new tool: the early successful testing of the system in 5 percent of
the herd, made feasible the gradual deployment of a national mandatory SIRA, thereby helping
the country comply with the stricter epidemiological control and quality assurance of food safety


7
  Technical workshops were carried out to explain the procedures to follow and the system operation. A toll free 0800 line was
opened to answer inquiries as well as consultation spaces in the web sites of several state institutions. Also, a law was required to
formally grant traceability the importance it has and to enable the execution of the changes required to carry out the process.


                                                                 12
being increasingly demanded by premium export markets. The SNIG, which started in 2003, was
already operational by 2004 and has been successfully recording and processing gradually the
bovine livestock Property and Transportation Guides and the Annual Livestock Inventory
Declarations. The AF helped to build the system at a decentralized level ensuring its ability to
respond to information demands arising from mandatory livestock traceability nationwide.
The traceability system allows to locate each head of cattle in its farm, and to follow it up
throughout its life up to the slaughterhouse in a geo-referenced manner. The mandatory system
covering all the country cattle and incorporating the individual electronic identification of cattle
has placed Uruguay in a globally prestigious position as regards the guarantees it offers as a safe
food exporting country8. Although traceability strengthens animal health as well as food quality
and safety, it is also crucial for the future enhancement of livestock production in Uruguay. At
the same time, it is relevant to highlight that traceability has been an important tool to control the
illegal movement of animals across the borders, which decreased strongly since the system is
under implementation . This tool is strengthening the animal health and food safety guarantees
offered, increases the possibilities of the country to position itself as one of the leading high-
quality beef exporters worldwide, and to access the high-value markets that it has been unable to
access before, while opening new opportunities for the productive management of the national
herd.
While the Product Traceability Systems focus on the traceability of bovine cattle, both at group
and at individual level, from birth to slaughter, the Process Traceability System incorporates to
the former the information on how it was produced and on all pertinent health issues. The
purpose of the SISA to integrate all the animal health information available in the country as a
single computerized system, to provide timely and high quality information to the different
hierarchical levels of Livestock Services and to communicate the presence of diseases according
to international recommendations has been fully achieved. The responsibility for the operation
and management of the SNIG will be gradually transferred to MGAP over a period of twelve
months ending on 31 March 2011.

3.3 Efficiency
The project's economic rationale is that FMD and possibly other TADs could have huge costs if
such diseases occur, whereas prevention costs are comparatively low. The impact of project
activities could be assessed by estimating the prevented losses expected from the implementation
of the project and from the increased value being generated, and to be generated in the future,
from Uruguay's access to new premium markets as traceability adds value to exports of more
safe and differentiated products. More specifically, the project has contributed to prevent the re-
occurrence of the direct and indirect losses to the Uruguayan economy as a result of the 2001
FMD outbreak, which have been estimated at about US$730 million. Moreover, given that the
value of beef exports has more than tripled since 2001 (as a result of larger export volumes,
recovered access to markets and higher world beef prices), the economic impact of the FMD-



8
  Through the INAC, Uruguay offers the "Certified Natural Meat Program of Uruguay" (CNMPU), the first program in the world
recognized by the United States Department of Agriculture as "USDA Process Verified" upon meeting the requirements of
USDA regarding meat quality, animal handling and source verification. Under this mechanism, beef exported to the US can bear
a label containing the basic characteristics of USDA-certified beef: no added hormones, no antibiotics, no animal proteins given
to the animal as feed (BSD free), the animal was raised on a grass-fed diet and proper animal handling practices were followed.


                                                              13
ERP and the avoided subsequent losses of an outbreak of FMD are likely to have been
substantially higher than the 2001/2002 estimate.
Uruguay as a producer of grass-fed beef is promoting the image of safe, nutritious and natural
beef raised in a wholesome environment. This image depends on packaging claims that deem
beef to be organic, hormone-free, antibiotic-free, free-range, pasture-raised or grass-fed. These
claims can be verified through traceability systems as the one developed under the project.
The economic impact of the project has been significant: Uruguay has contained the FMD
outbreak creating an exemplary system for EMSCS, upgrading laboratories and sanitary barriers,
implementing the universal and mandatory SIRA, scaling up and decentralizing the SNIG, and
linking it with the SISA. In 2008, agricultural exports reached US$4,187 million, while total
exports totaled US$5,949 million. Within the livestock subsector, cattle production played a
central role, accounting for 25% of the gross value of the agricultural activities, 60% of the gross
value of livestock, and 21% of national income in foreign currency. Analyzing the period 1996-
2008, the gross value of bovine cattle production has maintained an upward trend, interrupted
only in 2002 due to the deep crisis caused by the FMD outbreak. In 2008, the value of livestock
production more than doubled to US$1,268 million, a 124% growth as compared to 1996,
confirming the success of the project in restoring the country's presence in premium markets:
higher export volumes and better prices obtained from more differentiated products in those
markets.
Building a global beef export industry involves more than simply complying with the regulations
of importing countries: it depends upon maintaining consumer confidence and ensuring a
competitive and transparent supply chain. Accomplishing these objectives required investments
in traceability, to track the history of a product through every stage in production, all the way to
its source. Traceability is an imperative as the industry shifts its focus from commodity to higher
value branded beef. Branded beef tends to come from producer alliances, that raise and prepare
meat for which consumers will pay a premium. Advances in animal traceability allow farmers
and processors to verify claims about their beef and prove what they promote. The common
denominator is capturing value in a marketplace increasingly driven by consumers rather than
meatpackers and other intermediaries. In the not-so-distant future, it will be possible for retailers
and consumers to trace a package of beef to an individual animal, with information about its
entire life cycle, including the farm or farms where the animal was raised, the feeding system and
sanitary treatments utilized.9.
The exemplary project strengthening of the country's EMSCS and the continuous enhancement
of the SNIG, including the SISA, are essential for the prevention of future outbreaks of FMD or
other TADs, and for the consolidation of the country's long-term presence and further access to
the most profitable beef export markets. In the last decade, a spate of animal disease outbreaks
worldwide has repeatedly disrupted livestock and poultry meat trade and created uncertainty
about future trade disruptions. AI and BSE are at the forefront of today's trade disruptions, but
FMD has caused serious problems in markets over the past decade and emerged again very
recently in Brazil. Trade disruptions can result in permanent losses for livestock industries, such



9
 Improving the beef supply chain: Ensuring quality in a demanding world. A discussion paper from the Economist Intelligence
Unit Sponsored by INAC. 2008.


                                                            14
as for the pork exporters of Taiwan, whose exports were almost eliminated since early 1997 due
to FMD.
Further to the economic and financial benefits of the project described above, the impact of FMD
and its control in Uruguay was evaluated using a social cost-benefit analysis10. A stochastic
simulation model was constructed to simulate 4 different FMD control scenarios over a 10-year
time horizon. The baseline scenario in which FMD control was based on routine vaccination of
the cattle population (the current situation) was compared to 3 hypothetic scenarios in which
vaccination is stopped. Scenario 1 assumes no FMD outbreaks during the study period; in
Scenario 2 an outbreak occurs in the first year and in Scenario 3 during the third year after
routine vaccination is stopped. The results indicate that stopping routine vaccination would only
be economically viable if no outbreaks would happen in the time period considered (Scenario 1).
The estimated benefit-cost ratio in that case is 22.35 (95% CI: 17.84 ­ 27.16). Since the current
FMD control policy is economically viable, stopping with routine vaccination should be
carefully evaluated since only 1 of the 3 possible scenarios evaluated was considered to be
economically viable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Since project design was clearly relevant and the PDO were mostly achieved the overall outcome
is rated as satisfactory. With the FMD-ERP and the subsequent AF, the project developed the
individual traceability mechanisms that made it possible to trace animals individually from their
origin to the slaughterhouse. By combining the information provided by the double ear-tag
system of the SIRA with the SEIIC (also known as Black Boxes), it is possible to identify from a
beef cut, the animal and the farm where it came from. The combination of both systems turns
Uruguay into the first country in the developing world able to have the records of its entire cattle
herd, and of all its beef exports. The project is being used as a platform to build a regional
framework for cooperation on animal disease control, and it has potential for best practice.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project design and context were well focused in terms of covering risks to the industry in
general and in particular the interests of small livestock producers, who are more vulnerable and
less resilient to disease outbreaks, and whose inclusion was genuine and systematic. From a
social point of view, the increase in coverage and institutionalization under the AF was also well
justified. The culling and compensation system was accepted, understood and transparent.
Stakeholder consultation and information was adequate, but insufficiently documented, and care
should have been taken to include poverty and social elements in the M&E system. The AF
quality at entry panel stated that more systematic attention to the full range of potential social
issues at the review stage, going beyond safeguards, could have helped to improve project
quality. Even when social issues were well handled, it would have been useful to demonstrate
this clearly within the Bank and outside, particularly when as in this case, the project is seen as a
regional leader.



10
   Hendrickx, Saskia. The Economic Impact of FMD and its Control in Uruguay. The Royal Veterinary College. Proceedings of
the 11th International Symposium on Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics, 2006. Available at www.sciquest.org.nz


                                                           15
The poverty targeting could have been more explicit, but the rationale was sound in practice and
the project took poverty issues adequately into account. The poorest farmers have a higher risk
because of lower resilience to outbreaks, since herd size and financial resources are critical to
recovery. The system is free to small farmers and easily accessible. The compensation system
worked well and was transparent, well publicized, and socially accepted. The project had an
intrinsic focus on small livestock producers, and monitoring of tagging compliance found no
difference in response between large and small farmers. The latter are well represented in the
producer organizations which participated actively in project implementation.. Stakeholder
consultation had been satisfactory, although not adequately documented. The communication
system with farmers was effective and the system well understood and explained, mainly through
task teams from MGAP that went out to producers and held seminars. A great deal of project
information of this nature was tacit, known to the team and client but could have been more
systematically recorded , thus facilitating institutional learning and continuity.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project strongly contributed to strengthen the capacity of all MGAP animal health services
to successfully respond to emergency situations and through DICOSE in its control functions by
creating a documental support for identification of the animal stock and tracing of all their
movements. The UEP just provided support for all those services: vaccination campaigns were
under responsibility of the Division of Animal Health (DSA) within the Department of Livestock
Services (DGSG) of MGAP. DSA is responsible for the execution of any sanitary program and
campaign promoted by government through its 43 local and area offices distributed throughout
the country. For the FMD vaccination campaigns, DSA used its existing staff and equipment
both at the central and regional level. Strengthening of sanitary barriers mainly at the borders, as
well the project's internal awareness and training activities was also under the DSA. Also, the
implementation of the external awareness program was the responsibility of DGSG acting in
coordination with the UEP, but following the guidelines established by MGAP.
The Animal Health Information System (SISA) covers the following components: the Veterinary
Laboratories Division (DILAVE); the accredited laboratories; the local and area livestock
services under the DSA of the MGAP; the freelance veterinaries; the dairy plants; the DICOSE;
the SNIG; the Geographic Information System (GIS) and the private slaughterhouses under the
Animal Industry Division (DIA) of the MGAP. The information provided by all these system
components to the new project integrated information system offers the Official Animal Health
Services an enhanced work tool to plan health campaigns, perform visits and implement
epidemiological prevention and surveillance campaigns with a higher operational value. In
practice, whenever a sanitary event occurs, the GIS provides information about the farm of
origin, including the livestock entry and exit movements in a specific period. It also enables to
measure and visualize the propagation to nearby establishments before the event becomes an
epidemic. The new system is also useful from an operational viewpoint, as it generates the
Shipment Authorization to include in the Ownership and Movement Forms.
One of the factors supporting the proper implementation of the new system is the existence of a
network of MGAP offices in all the departments of the country, with a specific section for
sanitary services. Thus, if a sanitary event is suspected, they may notify the area or local
livestock services of the department, and once the alarm is triggered, the MGAP technicians visit
the event location and proceed under the protocols established for each specific case. The
operation and management costs of the SNIG are currently fully financed by MGAP, and while


                                                16
the day to day administration of the system is still in the hands of a private operator, this
responsibility is expected to be transferred gradually to MGAP staff.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Initially, the tracking system developed by the project was conceptualized as a defensive
measure to mitigate sanitary risks, but now it has evolved to become an instrument for decision
making in the various aspects of livestock production and marketing, as well as providing
assurance to wholesalers, retailers and consumers. These benefits include measurable quality
features (animal breed, leanness, tenderness, marbling) and the process by which the beef was
produced (grass-fed, hormone-free, antibiotic-free, organic), as well other claims such as
"natural" or "family-farm produced". All of these claims need increasingly to be backed up by
traceability systems capable of verifying them.
Since 1974, Uruguay has had a group traceability system under DICOSE. By January 2005 it
was agreed with the EU the implementation of an individual cattle traceability system that would
be completed by April 1, 2010 becoming a requirement for accessing EU markets. In parallel to
the development of the SNIG/SIRA, the National Meat Institute (INAC) has been advancing
towards the processing traceability by implementing the Electronic Information System of the
Meat Industry (SEIIC), also known as "Black Boxes". Its purpose is to receive data on bovine
cattle slaughter and deboning for transparent management and for showing operational
conditions to all players in the system. With the SEIIC, a uniform commercial traceability
infrastructure was installed and is available at national level, with the possibility of periodic
audits. It is a unique system at the global level, as it is installed in all slaughterhouses authorized
by the MGAP to operate. It systematically traces all animals entering these plants, and in its
complete configuration it uses 7 points of information located throughout the industrial process11.
It includes scales, industrial computers, printers, scanners and communication devices installed
along the slaughter, deboning and dispatch lines providing information about production in real
time, which is stored in the local server in each plant and centrally, in a main server in INAC.
The process to harmonize the Individual Traceability System with the Industrial Traceability
System is in course as a way to achieve the Comprehensive Traceability of Beef. At present,
producers already access to both systems with a single user number as password. Identification
information is contained in a bar code printed in each label, and this is added to the carcass, half
carcass or cut. At each bar code reading, the scanner captures the information in the labels about
each preceding data control point. Based on the number of a dispatched box of beef, queries may
be made in order to obtain all the information registered "forward" in the process.
The SEIIC offers traceability mechanisms to support sanitary emergency procedures by
restraining risks, thus limiting any sanitary problem to clearly defined areas or products. The
system may also be the basis for certification, supporting current and future certification schemes.
Just as the Certified Natural Meat Program is based on the SEIIC today, the system may be the


11
   The animals are identified when they enter the establishment: herd number, DICOSE number of the producer, the farm and the
consignee, eartag number (individual traceability), etc. The SEIIC identifies each animal with an exclusive number called DOT
Number and the last data registration point is where boxes containing beef cuts are dispatched. Based on this System, and on the
Individual Traceability System, traceability is enabled from birth to carcass and final cuttings. Information is processed, which
represented more than 25,000 pieces of data or one every 3 seconds when the system was handling 4.5 million head of cattle.


                                                              17
basis for other certifications in the future. Traceability of Sanitary Emergency of Animals and
Carcasses is possible to easily and quickly obtain the data about animals within a limited area of
the country by entering the code of the department and police precinct or the DICOSE number.
The search provides data about the animals within that specific area that were slaughtered in a
given period: animal origin, category, dentition, classification, slaughterhouse, slaughter number,
last farmer and farm, quantities, etc. This enables to determine the slaughterhouses where
animals from the interdicted area have entered, and the products manufactured with such animals.
Electronic Traceability of Beef Cuts is also possible as the integration of system advances. Data
about origin and other characteristics of beef cuts and quarters entering a deboning room in a
given period can be done for a specific slaughterhouse and dates. Individual traceability is an
option that can be implemented if the market requires it and/or higher prices justify its cost.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
No formal or structured beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was conducted.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
Sustainability of PDO is considered as highly likely because: (a) the magnitude of the economic
damage after the 2001 FMD outbreak is very fresh in all stakeholders minds; (b) there is a strong
stakeholder empowerment, support and participation in the control, surveillance and traceability
processes to maintain the FMD and other TAD-free status; (c) the MAGP sustained commitment
and its continuous awareness and education campaigns maintains the stakeholders' preventive
attitudes in alert mode; and (d) the increased access to premium markets as a result of the project
enhanced traceability outcomes has significantly improved prices and the benefits for the meat
industry chain, gains that the private sector is keen and committed to preserve.
There is long tradition of participation of farmers and private veterinarians in official health
campaigns in Uruguay. This participation has institutional form through the National Honorary
Commission for Animal Health (CONAHSA) and the Departmental Animal Health Commissions
(CODESA), working in the 18 departments of the country12. CONAHSA periodically analyzed
the implementation progress and reviewed the UEP's six monthly reports. An input to these
reports was CODESAs' assessment of activities in their respective areas. In the last years the
beef industry passed the audits of the most demanding countries, and has strengthened its image
at the international level, of a serious and reliable source from the point of view of animal health.
It has positioned itself as a leading producer of high quality beef in the region and in the world,
with over 80 markets. Its main clients are Russia, the EU and the US. On this base, beef exports
reached a record of US$1,268 million, with 377,000 MT carcass weight equivalents in 2008,
even though the international financial crises generated credit restriction that slowed exports and
led to a renegotiation of contracts and lower average export price.
Risks to DO are considered moderate mainly due to the following factors: (i) veterinarian
services in Uruguay have a long and well gained prestige owed to its professionalism,


12
   CONAHSA is formed by the Director General of the Livestock Services, the Director of Animal Health, a delegate from the
Uruguayan Veterinary Society and three delegates from the main farmers' organizations (ARU, FR & CAF). The CODESAs work
in co-ordination with CONAHSA and are integrated by an official veterinarian, one from the departmental veterinary center and
three from farmers' organizations. CONAHSA meets twice a month to discuss animal health issues and any animal health
campaign that is being either planned or executed by Government.


                                                            18
commitment and seriousness; (ii) the strong economic implications, and the private and public
institutional capacity engaged in the enhancement of the meat industry chain; (iii) the traditional
stakeholder participation and support on the animal health and processing/marketing issues; (iv)
the government continuous commitment towards the country's main source of export revenues.
In spite of the project achievements there is full awareness about the risks involved. As FAO is
warning, FMD global threat is increasing and experts are urging heightened international
surveillance against FMD following the three recent FMD incursions in Japan and South Korea
since January 2010 in spite of the rigorous bio-security standards in place in these two countries.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Quality at entry was satisfactory for an emergency operation, as project design and
components offered a sound combination of critical interventions including implementing
the epidemiological containment strategy and plan, while enhancing monitoring and
surveillance activities, and providing assistance for reopening the premium markets for
livestock products. LAC Regional Management and the Task Team are to be commended for
their responsiveness to the request of a well-performing Borrower to process the preparation and
approval in only 90 days to the emergency, and subsequently to scale up selected successful
ongoing activities through the Additional Financing. The Bank response to the economic
emergency through an IBRD loan to help implement the GOU's epidemiological containment
strategy and plan was highly relevant, activating an innovative format and mechanism for Bank's
assistance. It contributed significantly to reduce vulnerability and sustain growth, which were
major challenges facing the country during the last decade. The design was pertinent, and
constituted an unavoidable public intervention for enabling the environment for private sector to
overcome a difficult event as was the FMD outbreak, and to contribute to restore the country's
credibility in international markets.
The AF extended the implementation period beyond the expected duration of an emergency
operation due to the resurgence of the disease in the region, reflecting a continued quasi-
emergency situation that required a sustained and also a multi-country effort that the Bank was
supporting. The financial instrument was the best available option to achieve the proposed
strategic objectives without disrupting the implementation of the on-going enhanced surveillance
system. It was estimated that, it would take at least until 2009 to achieve full deployment of the
universal and mandatory SIRA system and 100 percent identification and traceability of the
country's herd. However, the inadequate AF results framework, the lack of outcome monitorable
indicators and related M&E arrangements, and the required attention to environmental aspects,
determined the moderately satisfactory quality at entry assessment rating.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank provided valuable managerial and technical support during implementation via project
supervision - which has proven to be an important element of project success in this, as well as in
other, emergency assistance projects. It was also flexible in supporting the evolving needs of the
country after the 2001 outbreak was contained, providing the needed time and offering different
solutions when the fiscal adjustments were enforced in response to the GOU's 2002 post crisis


                                                19
management13 which delayed the budget allocations and the project implementation pace. Given
the continuous borrower's commitment, three extensions of the closing dates were granted until
December 2006, providing time also for the political transition that took place during the change
in administration in 2005; and for the subsequent redefinition of the MGAP's plans. The
approval of the AF allowed for the project scope to be expanded covering the development of the
innovative SNIG traceability system, including the SIRA, still evolving into a sophisticated tool
for full product traceability, and animal health surveillance and control, for ensuring the quality
of safe food and the development of premium beef markets.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory , in spite of the moderately satisfactory
quality at entry rating for the AF operation, given the satisfactory response to the initial
emergency , the quality at entry of the original operation, and the quality of the supervision,.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Borrower implemented the project (both the loan and the AF) in a satisfactory manner over
more than 8 years, including adequate operational and institutional support and provision of
counterpart funds. This FMD-ERP was a case of a competent Borrower knowing clearly what it
wanted, and a task team with the commitment to respond quickly, despite budget constraints.
The FMD-ERP was the result of a productive dialogue that since long has existed between the
Bank and the GOU to improve the development of the agricultural sector. Commitment to the
emergency containment measures and the innovative expanded activities deriving towards
individual traceability was and continuous to be strong, as demonstrated by the increased
budgetary allocations to the project even during the 2002/04 crisis, the decision to establish the
mandatory SIRA following the PPTI experience, and the new legislation put in place requiring
the mandatory registration of cattle born since September 2006.
The AF was requested in June 2006, and in August 2006 the national legislature approved the
law requiring mandatory animal registration and traceability system which had been developed
and piloted under the original project and was successfully scaled up under the AF. However, the
team and sector management erred in the lack of attention to M&E aspects, missing
opportunities in drawing on lessons from the successful experience.
Overall, Borrower ownership, not just at government level but down to farmer level, had been
solid. Meat production in Uruguay is supported by its traditional ability and expertise of all links
of the agro industrial chain, as well as by its health services public institutions reliability that
ensures the animal health, the meat safety, and the commercial quality required by customers.
The country has had a group traceability system for over 30 years under the MGAP's DICOSE.
The government main strength is its commitment to offer strong guarantees as to cattle health
controls and meat safety, providing surveillance and information on changes in ownership of



13
  After the decision of Argentina, in December 2001, to freeze Bank deposits and restrict capital outflows prompted a run on
Uruguayan Banks for the fear that Uruguay may take similar action. Total deposits on the non-financial private sector in the
Uruguayan financial system fell by 50 percent in the course of 2002.


                                                              20
animals/products during production, transport, processing, storage, and trade from animal birth
to the final consumer.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The MGAP as implementing agency performed satisfactorily and had established a good track
record. The only shortcomings derived from unnecessary changes in PIU key personnel and the
understandable initial delays in implementation during the 2005 transition period to the new
administration. The fiduciary tasks, including procurement and financial management, were
performed correctly by the PIU, which was also responsible for consolidating biannual progress
management reports, and annual work programs and budgets that had been submitted in a timely
and effective manner. Financial Management under the project worked well and has consistently
been rated satisfactory without substantial outstanding issues. Project audits have also been
satisfactory. Procurement arrangements followed the Bank procedures and guidelines. In order
for the SNIG to continue to operate safely, and to avoid adding unnecessary technical risks by
having different firms involved in handling the complexities faced in without interruptions and
adapting it to the new requirements imposed by the SIRA system, the Procurement Plan
authorized the extended financing and expansion of the SNIG's development and operation
during the AF years of the on-going contract - originally procured through a Bank-approved ICB
process in late 2003.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Since both the government performance and the MGAP as implementing agency performance
were satisfactory, the overall borrower performance is also considered satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
From the experience acquired in implementing the project, the following lessons can be learned:
     Emergency projects can be an effective tool to assist a country in controlling animal
       disease outbreaks, provided that conditions exist for a rapid Bank response in terms of
       project preparation and disbursement of funds.
     The design of an operation to address the economic emergency caused by a zoonotic
       event, should be sufficiently flexible to combine short-term containment measures with
       support to strengthen surveillance and prevention systems in order to ensure long-term
       sustainability and minimize the risk of subsequent emergencies.
     The development of an individual animal tracking system represents an extremely
       effective mechanism to ensure adequate epidemiological surveillance and more rapid and
       effective containment in the event of an outbreak. The establishment of such system will
       be greatly facilitated by the previous existence of a reliable reporting system for farm
       livestock inventories and transactions.
     Enhanced individual tracking systems integrating health and geo-referenced data not
       only help to manage and mitigate disease outbreaks, but also can represent a valuable tool
       for on-farm herd management, as well as a source of strategic information on livestock
       production, logistics, marketing, processing, and food safety issues.
     Efficient, timely and uninterrupted operation of a Livestock Information System that
       involves animal tracking can be affected by the rules and regulations of the public service,


                                               21
        particularly in terms of procurement procedures, flow of funds and remuneration levels
        for specialized staff and IT operators

        The achievement of a sustainable national disease free status should also incorporate
        transboundary disease surveillance and control with neighboring countries

        Strong and continuous programs of education and training of the public and private
        veterinary services as well as farmers and public in general are required to update the
        evolving sanitary threats.
     The benefits, advantages and limitations of fast-track Additional Financing as an
     instrument to increase project funding should be carefully evaluated to determine if it
     represents the best option to expand and/or consolidate the outcomes of an emergency
     operation. If so, a more detailed design and appraisal will be required, in order to
     incorporate those elements not fully addressed in the original design (M&E, Project
     manual, indicators, fiduciary and safeguard assessments)



    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A detailed discussion of the draft ICR was held with representatives of MGAP and the PIU during a
mission conducted on May 24-28, 2010 . Given that the contents of the ICR are fully consistent with the
findings of the Borrower's report, no issues were raised.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                                   22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
           Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                        (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                               millions)
FMD-ERP (PAEFA)
Epidemiological Containment                    19.20            20.64               108%
Monitoring and Surveillance                     2.90            4.05                140%
Training, Education and Awareness               0.80             0.11                14%
Project Coordination & Management               0.20            0.18                90%
AF (PROSA)
Monitoring and Surveillance                     7.20             9.65               134%
Training, Education and Awareness               1.05             0.08                 8%
Project Coordination & Management               0.45             0.84               187%
                Total Baseline Cost            31.80            35.55               112%
Physical Contingencies                          0.97               -                   -
Price Contingencies                             0.20               -                   -
                 Total Project Costs           32.97            35.55               108%
         Total Financing Required              32.97            35.55               108%
                               BIRF            25.00            23.23                93%




(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                                    Percentage of
                  Source of Funds                       Estimate       Estimate
                                                                                     Appraisal
                                                      (USD millions) (USD millions)
FMD-ERP (PAEFA)                                             24           24.98         104%
Borrower                                                    5.5           6.49          118%
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development      18.5          18.49          100%
AF (PROSA)                                                 8.97          10.57         118%
Borrower                                                   2.47           5.86          237%
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development       6.5           4.71           72%
FMD-ERP (PAEFA) & AF (PROSA)                              32.97          35.55         108%
Borrower                                                   7.97          12.35          155%
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development       25            23.2           93%




                                                 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project provided technical and financial assistance in four areas: (i) Epidemiological
Containment; (ii) Strengthening MGAP's Epidemiological Monitoring, Surveillance and Control
System (EMSCS); (iii) Training, Education and Awareness; and (iv) Project Coordination and
Management. The project achieved at an early stage its basic epidemiological containment goals
related to the 2001 FMD outbreak, and as a result, the World Organization for Animal Health
(OIE) was able to declare Uruguay "Free of FMD with Vaccination" ahead of schedule. This
allowed Uruguay the reopening of major export markets outside the FMD-free commercial
circuit of beef exports as well as the regaining of access to various FMD-free markets.
One year after effectiveness when the mid-term review was conducted, almost 100 percent of the
first component: epidemiological containment program's targets had been attained: about 55
million vaccines had been purchased (107 percent of the target); 5 of 6 vaccination campaigns
were completed (the last vaccination of calves was planned for November 2002); US$13.4
million were already spent (including US$11.3 million disbursed from the loan, 74 percent of the
total), and immunity had reached to 99.8 percent of the national herd. Counterpart funds had
covered compensations to farmers (US$1.9 million) whose cattle were destroyed by the sanitary
rifle (6,937 animals) at the beginning of the containment campaign. By October 31, 2003 the
original closing date the containment project activities were all successfully completed at a lower
cost than foreseen and the country had recovered its FMD-free with vaccination status by May
2003. Portable management equipment, to facilitate the vaccination and control of animals was
not procured as the disease was under control and equipment considered unnecessary. Simulation
outbreaks of Foot and Mouth have been carried out and have demonstrated the country's
preparedness to address an eventual outbreak together with the continued strengthening of the
tracking system which would contribute to minimize the impact of an eventual outbreak.
As the FMD outbreaks were controlled the focus was shifted to the second component:
strengthening of the monitoring, surveillance and control systems. From the original simple
strengthening of the DICOSE Livestock Group Traceability System the component moved
forward towards the creation of a more comprehensive and integrated National Livestock
Information System (SNIG) covering all relevant data being monitored under different
government agencies. Also, the originally planned compulsory individual identification system
to track animal movements and sales on a pilot basis, which would include the purchase of
hardware, electronic identification tags to be used on calves born in 2001, was also being
redefined following the recommendation of the farmers' organizations. It was then preferred to
go first towards a voluntary pilot plan for Individual Livestock Traceability (PPTI) system
including incentives to those farmers willing to adopt the new system.
The project actions prioritized developing and implementing structural activities to ensure the
long-term sustainability of the project's epidemiological achievements. Resources were used to
take advantage of the latest technological developments in livestock information and tracking
systems, to establish a state-of-the-art National Livestock Information System (SNIG), and to
partially strengthen the operation of the sanitary barriers, since other MGAP funds were been
used for that purpose. The PPTI aimed at incorporating producers in a voluntary individual
livestock tracking system that was effectively developed and implemented. The successful


                                                24
testing of this system in 5 percent of the herd with project support proved the feasibility of the
gradual deployment of a national mandatory Animal Identification and Registration System
(SIRA), helping Uruguay to comply with the stricter epidemiological control and quality
assurance of food safety being increasingly demanded by premium export markets. UE required
as early as January 2005 that for April 2010 Uruguay would have to show an Individual
Traceability System working to be able to sell beef under the EU Hilton quota.
The SNIG under the MGAP was created with the purpose of improving the existing Group
Traceability System in charge of DICOSE/MGAP, with the contribution of new technologies.
The objective was to create a single reliable and updated database to centralize the data on stocks
from the Annual Affidavit as well as the data on movements or changes of ownership from the
Ownership and Movement Form, operating through a system created to meet the needs of the
country. To this end, in September 2002, the MGAP opened an international public bid to
contract a private operator for the design, implementation and operation of the SNIG database
for a five-year period. In October 2003, a contract with a consortium of companies to which the
bid was awarded was signed14. The project funds covered the first three years of execution of the
system, the cost of the contract of a private firm to operate the SNIG (the consortium) for the 5-
year period and the purchase of electronic identifiers and readers for starting the PPTI. Private
users coordinate their activities with a Technical Commission with representatives of the
Livestock Services of the MGAP. The system allows producers and other users to view the
origin and destination of each movement of bovine head according to date, species and category
in a geo-referenced manner, through the Geographic Information System (GIS). Also, it provides
essential data to the sanitary authorities for the adoption of general sanitary measures more
efficiently.
The surveillance and control system is in place and working smoothly. The SNIG, which started
in 2003, was fully operational by 2006 and had since been successfully recording and processing
the bovine livestock Property and Transportation Guides and the Annual Livestock Inventory
Declarations. Ovine, Swine, Equine and Goats were added to the SNIG since 2006. The PPTI
was completed on September 1, 2006 with the approval of Law No. 17,997 of August 2, 2006
and of Decree 266/2008, whereby individual cattle traceability became mandatory.
This traceability system provides the consumer information about all the places where the animal
has been since birth: farms, fairs and slaughterhouses; the date when the animal entered and left
each place; the identification of the animals that shared the same locations; and finally, the
current location of the animals who were in contact with each animal. This complete monitoring
is possible because any movement of cattle or change in holding of identified and registered
animals is been notified to the SIRA by an authorized operator. If the animal is slaughtered, its
history is completed. At the first data control point of the industrial phase of the Traceability
System, the animal traceability number is associated with the DICOSE number of the last owner,
with the number of the last farm where the animal was, with the number of herd and with a code
that will be used throughout the process in the industry phase, until cutting and packaging. At
closing the SNIG has about 80 percent of the herd identified and about 70 percent traced.
Uruguay's individual traceability program is the only program in Latin America wholly based on
electronic identification technology, besides visual identification. It is also the only program


14
     This consortium was composed of Sonda Uruguay S.A., Artech and ICA - Ingenieros Consultores Asociados.



                                                             25
implemented by delivering the identification devices to producers free of charge. These are
distributed through the National Postal Service. The experience has been successful due to the
following factors:(i) beef exports account for an important part of agricultural exports and
overall national exports; (ii) Uruguay is a small country, which makes it easier to control, and its
farmers have a good cultural level; (iii) the country has traditionally implemented a set of
instruments for animal identification, such as Group Traceability, Registers, Ownership and
Movement Forms, Affidavits, etc.; (iv) there is a network at the MGAP offices in all the
departments with representatives of Livestock Services, all of which is coordinated with the
Ministry of the Interior and the Municipalities; (v) the whole process was duly planned well
before the date agreed with the EU: the implementation of the PPTI began in March 2004, and
only on September 1, 2006, the Law made the identification and registration of calves born
throughout the national territory mandatory; and (vi) there was an extensive training and
dissemination plan, complemented with Help Desks that answers queries and solve problems
through a call center.
The Certified Natural Meat Program of Uruguay under INAC uses the Electronic Monitoring of
Natural Meat (SECAN) developed to support the certification of Uruguayan meat successfully
used in the last USDA audits. The System also provides an Electronic Summary of Head (REC),
which enables mapping the quantity and category of the animals slaughtered at any moment in
the country or per plant. In a dynamic market as is the beef market, this high-level information
availability in real time offers the industry better tools for analysis, diagnosis and formulation of
policies than the one available at most institutions worldwide. Together with the SIRA it
provides elements for the increasingly sophisticated requirements being continuously developed
by the premium meat markets that pay better prices for traceable, reliable and safe food products.
The project also supported several actions aimed at strengthening and equipping laboratories of
DILAVE (not included in the Technical Annex), sanitary barriers, and animal health staff in the
MGAP.
With the enforcement of the Individual Traceability System in September 2006, the SNIG as the
main information database continue to be developed with the SIRA. From the moment when the
identification devices (eartags and chips) are placed in each animal, the following information is
registered in the SNIG: (i) identifier number; (ii) DICOSE number of the owner; (iii) DICOSE
number of the farm of birth, birth season and year; and (iv) sex, breed and cross. Besides, the
producers assumed the commitment to communicate to the SNIG the deceases and movements
of entrance or exit of already identified animals. Data are sent through the database by post, in
the case of paper forms, and through the Internet, in the case of electronic forms. One of the
objectives for 2010 is to gradually include electronic forms to replace printed documents, so that
all the information is managed through the Internet.
Information updating is essential for the system to be current and reliable. For the collection of
data in the farms, authorized operators use reading devices to transfer data with a PC and Internet
connectivity. The reading devices read the electronic identifiers placed to each animal, and the
DICOSE Affidavits and the Ownership and Movement Forms (OMF) are processed optically to
update the SNIG. They are read as digital images, translated into characters and entered into a
database within the SNIG. In order to improve the quality of data, the OMF were redesigned to
make form-filling easier for the producers. A new format was adopted, similar to the DICOSE
Affidavit, in the last Agricultural Census and in the last Population and Household Census. As
regards the identifiers used for each cattle head, the visual eartag and the RFID device located in


                                                 26
the animal ears bear the same identification number15. Likewise, as a way to facilitate the
transfer of data to the SNIG, the management and sale of reading devices were entrusted to the
private sector, under the quality control of the Technological Laboratory of Uruguay (LATU).
The equipment must include reading, storage, printing and electronic data submittal capabilities16.
The third component: training, education and awareness, was only partially implemented
because realism indicated that many of the foreseen actions were either not necessary or done
and financed by other sources and/or stakeholders. It was the case of the external awareness
subcomponent for example, which was thought to finance the visit of about 12 missions of
Uruguayan government officials and local producers to the main potential markets to promote
beef exports; and the visit of 15 delegations of importers from the main markets for Uruguayan
beef to show how the outbreak was been handled. Beef markets have been recovered and
auditing inspections from importing countries have been visiting Uruguay regularly without the
need of the project financing support. As a result, only about 6 percent of the US$1.85 million
(budgeted for the component under both the FMD-ERP and the AF) was spent, and most of the
unused amount was reassigned for the implementation of the second component which was
gaining increasing importance for the consolidation of the epidemiological containment
achievements, and for the development of the individual traceability of the national herd.
Under this component, actions to create local awareness about the risks and prevention measures
of the FMD among producers and the general public were developed, including printed material
and field days were financed under the FMD-ERP. The following activities were done with the
follow-up AF: (i) training in the diagnosis of FMD, BSE, and AI of more than 2,000 veterinary
professionals working in the public and private sectors; (ii) organization of one simulated AI
outbreak in 2006, and one FMD outbreak in 2008, to train staff and test the effectiveness of the
emergency plans; (iii) training for the implementation and operation of the scaled-up PTI
benefiting 197 MGAP staff, 1,768 field operators of the systems, and some 12,200 producers;
and (iv) communication and information campaign on the merits of the SIRA and SNIG.




15
   This identification number has 12 digits: the first 3 refer to the country (Uruguay's number is 858 under the ISO 3166
standard), and the other 9 digits constitute the exclusive animal identity according to the ISO 11784 standard.
16
   Decree 480/007 of December 3, 2007 establishes the technical and regulatory conditions for the readers to be used in the
SIRA. The SIRA publishes the solutions authorized to offer reading services to the system. The companies must apply to the
SIRA for the authorization to offer their solutions.


                                                              27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No economic or financial analysis was made during the preparation of the FWD-ERP Technical
Annex. Nevertheless, from an economic viewpoint, the impact of the project activities could be
assessed by estimating the prevented losses expected from the implementation of the project
activities and from the benefits being derived from the implementation of an effective Individual
Traceability System. For this ICR no economic or financial analysis was done, but some
elements are presented below to demonstrate that the impact of the project is large compared
with the costs involved.
The exemplary project strengthening of the country's EMSCS and the continuous enhancement
of the SNIG and its integration with the SISA are essential for the prevention of future outbreaks
of FMD or other transboundary diseases, and for the consolidation of the country's long-term
presence and further access to the most profitable beef export markets. Uruguay as a producer of
grass-fed beef is promoting the image of safe, nutritious and natural beef raised in a natural
environment. This image is supported by claims that Uruguayan beef is organic, hormone-free,
antibiotic-free, free-range, pasture-raised or grass-fed. These claims are verified through
traceability systems.
Building a global beef export industry involves more than simply complying with the regulations
of importing countries: it depends upon maintaining consumer confidence and ensuring a
competitive and transparent supply chain. Accomplishing these objectives requires investments
in traceability, or the ability of stakeholders such as producers, traders, retailers, consumers and
regulators to track the history of a product through every stage of the production chain, all the
way to its source. Traceability is becoming an imperative as the industry shifts its focus from
commodity to branded beef. Branded beef tends to come from producer alliances, cooperatives
or integrated companies that raise and prepare meat for which consumers will pay a premium.
Advances in animal traceability systems allow farmers and processors to verify claims about
their beef and prove what they promote. The common denominator is capturing value in a
marketplace increasingly driven by consumers rather than meatpackers and other intermediaries.
In the not-so-distant future, it will be possible to for retailers and consumers trace a package of
beef to an individual animal, identify the farmer who raised it and what it was fed, what
treatments it received, and when and where it was harvested throughout its route to the meat case.
In the last decade, a spate of animal disease outbreaks worldwide has repeatedly disrupted
livestock and poultry meat trade and created uncertainty about future trade disruptions. AI and
BSE are at the forefront of today's trade disruptions, but FMD, has caused chaos in livestock
markets in the past decade and emerged again very recently in Brazil. Trade disruptions can
result in permanent losses for livestock industries, such as for the pork exporters of Taiwan,
whose exports were nearly eliminated since early 1997 due to FMD.
The economic costs of these disruptions vary, and one of the criteria helping to explain the extent
of damage is the relative importance of meat exports to producers in the affected country. Loss
of export markets is much more serious if 70 percent of the country's output is exported, as is the
case in Uruguay, than if 5 or 10 percent is exported. Disease outbreaks among the pork industries
in Denmark and Taiwan and the poultry industry in Thailand, all heavily dependent on exports,


                                                28
have inflicted great damage on producers in those countries. The sudden suspension of trade
leaves an increased supply of meat that must be sold domestically, reducing prices. In contrast, a
large country like China has suffered less disruption from AI because it was less dependent on
poultry exports.
Direct and indirect losses to the Uruguayan economy as a result of the 2001 FMD outbreak have
been estimated at about US$730 million. However, given that the value of beef exports has more
than tripled since 2001 (as a result of larger export volumes, recovered access to premium
markets and higher world beef prices), the economic impact of the FMD-ERP project based on
the reduced risk of any future outbreak of FMD is likely to be substantially higher than the
2001/2002 estimate.
Although no economic analysis was carried out during preparation of the FWD-ERP Technical
Annex, some independent attempts have been made during project execution to carry out cost-
benefit analysis17 to assess the economic impact of FMD and its control in Uruguay. A stochastic
simulation model was constructed to simulate 4 different FMD control scenarios over a 10-year
time horizon. The baseline scenario in which FMD control was based on routine vaccination of
the cattle population (the current situation) was compared to 3 hypothetic scenarios in which
vaccination is stopped. Scenario 1 assumes no FMD outbreaks during the study period; in
Scenario 2 an outbreak occurs in the first year and in Scenario 3 during the third year after
routine vaccination is stopped. The results indicate that stopping routine vaccination would only
be economically viable if no outbreaks would happen in the time period considered (Scenario 1).
The estimated benefit-cost ratio in that case is 22.35 (95% CI: 17.84 ­ 27.16). Since the current
FMD control policy is economically viable, stopping with routine vaccination should be
carefully evaluated since only 1 of the 3 possible scenarios evaluated was considered to be
economically viable.
Another factor affecting the impact of outbreaks is whether the animal disease poses a threat to
humans, because consumers' fears can reduce consumption. FMD and highly pathogenic AI are
both contagious viral infections in animals and birds that cannot be contained easily. FMD does
not typically affect humans, but the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain of AI appears to have been
transmitted to humans through very close contact with infected birds. BSE is a different kind of
disease--it is not contagious and does not spread rapidly, but it is thought to cause a fatal brain
disease in humans who eat high-risk tissue from infected animals.
The traceability issue has become more important in recent years due to trends both inside and
outside the beef market including: (i) outbreaks of FMD and BSE have triggered import bans
which in turn have decimated beef exports from a number of countries. Outbreaks have occurred
worldwide, including in Europe, South America, North America (BSE only), Asia and Africa;
(ii) consumers have become increasingly concerned over issues ranging from the hormone
supplements to spur cattle growth to humane treatment of animals; (iii) the internet has ushered
in an era where the rapid spread of information both factual and false cannot be controlled.
Unless it can be quickly countered with factual and credible data, questionable stories have the
potential to trigger sudden changes in consumer behavior; (iv) lack of verifiable supply chain
information increases the probability that buyers will confuse beef from one country or


17
   Hendrickx, Saskia. The Economic Impact of FMD and its Control in Uruguay. The Royal Veterinary College. Proceedings of
the 11th International Symposium on Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics, 2006. Available at www.sciquest.org.nz


                                                           29
production program with that of neighboring ones. For instance, the BSE-related bans on British
beef several years ago also cast a shadow over exports from European countries with no record
of BSE infections; similarly, there is a danger that importers may confuse Uruguayan beef with
that of Argentina, Brazil or Bolivia (all of which suffered FMD outbreaks in 2005 and 2006). Of
course, verification also forces more accountability on any country or company that provides it.
Traceability can also help producers create a higher quality product which adds up to the benefits
of the project. By definition, high-quality beef consistently satisfies customers in terms of
qualities like flavor, tenderness, leanness and ease of preparation. A traceable supply chain can
thus function as a kind of quality control system, recording every step in the production of beef
products, and by doing so: (i) provide a recipe and roadmap to producing beef with consistent
characteristics; (ii) verify production and processing practices based on third-party audits; (iii)
help exporters sort beef by type and quality and price it more accurately.
Beef export opportunities will continue to grow for producers in countries that respond to the
demand for consistent supplies of safe, quality beef. With continued support for traceability and
product verification, improvements in production efficiency and attention to quality, beef
exporters will be able to improve their positions in the global marketplace.




                                                30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Michael G. Carroll        Lead Agricultural Specialist         LCSAR
Alvaro J. Soler           Sr. Rural Development Specialist     LCSAR
Antonio Leonardo Blasco   Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Edgardo M. Floto          Consultant                           LCSAR
Dana Rae Frye             Junior Professional Associate        LCSAR
Ricardo Eduardo Lugea     Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Jeannette Ramirez         Operations Officer                   LCSAR
Emilio H. Rodriguez       Consultant                           LCSPT
Alejandro Roger Solanot   Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                          8                          60.52
  FY02                                          4                          26.77
  FY03                                                                     46.83
  FY04                                                                     23.10
  FY05                                                                      5.50
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                          Total:             12                           162.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                      0.00
  FY02                                        3                            28.43
  FY03                                        9                            47.97
  FY04                                        7                            43.57
  FY05                                       10                            51.47
  FY06                                       11                            39.68
  FY07                                        4                            49.60
  FY08                                                                     17.90
                          Total:             44                           278.62




                                           31
32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                       33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                       34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
To be requested to the Borrower (not more than 10 pages)




                                     35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                       36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Country Assistance Strategy for The Oriental Republic of Uruguay 2005 - 2010. May 10,
   2005, Report No. 31804-UY
2. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for The Oriental Republic of Uruguay. March 3,
   2008, Report No. 42789-UY
3. Technical Annex for a Proposed Loan in the Amount of USD 18.5 Million to The Oriental
   Republic of Uruguay for a Foot and Mouth Disease Emergency Recovery Project (FMD-
   ERP), July 9, 2001, Report No. T7470-UR
4. Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing (Loan) in the Amount of USD 6.5 Million
   to The Oriental Republic of Uruguay for a Foot and Mouth Disease Emergency Recovery
   Project, December 1, 2006, Report No. 37879-UY
5. Aide Memoires of the Supervision Missions
6. Project Status Reports and ISRs
7. UEP Progress reports
8. COOPERATION NODE: Uruguay's Experience in Beef Cattle Traceability. Inter-American
   Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA), December 2009.
9. The Economic Impact of FMD and its Control in Uruguay. Hendrickx, Saskia. The Royal
   Veterinary College. Proceedings of the 11th International Symposium on Veterinary
   Epidemiology and Economics, 2006.
10. Improving the beef supply chain: Ensuring quality in a demanding world. Discussion paper
    from the Economist Intelligence Unit Sponsored by INAC. 2008.
11. Proyecto de Asistencia de Emergencia para la Erradicación de la Fiebre Aftosa ­ PAEFA
    (Convenio de Préstamo MGAP / BIRF 7070 ­ UR, 8 de Agosto 2001; y Programa de
    Sanidad Animal ­ (PROSA) (Convenio de Préstamo MGAP / BIRF 7421 ­ UR, 28 de Marzo
    2007. Informe de Cierre. Marzo, 2010, Rafael Sarno Altamirano, Consultor




                                             37
