Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7421-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the  
Foot and Mouth Disease Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 28, 2007
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7421-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 28, 2007
,
between REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six million five hundred thousand 
Dollars ($6,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement
 (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance; subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower selects 
Page  3
-
2
-
not to capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts 
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) 
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for 
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROJECT 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MGAP and the PEU in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on June 
19, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministro de Economía y Finanzas 
Colonia 1089,  Piso 3 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministro de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca 
Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca 
Constituyente 1476 
CP11100 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable: 
      Facsimile: 
 
MAP 
Montevideo, 
Uruguay 
    5982-915-4399 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Page  6
-
5
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at 
the city of Montevideo, República Oriental del Uruguay, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Danilo Astori 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are:  (a) to contain and mitigate the impact of the 
outbreak of FMD in the B
orrower’s territory through:  (i) vaccination of cattle; (ii) 
strengthening of the monitoring and surveillance capacity of the Borrower to prevent 
future outbreaks from spreading beyond the directly affected area; and (iii) identification 
of alternative markets for the beef produced in the Borrower’s territory in the short-run 
and restoring the Borrower’s presence in the premium beef market in the long-run; and 
(b) to prevent the introduction of other trans-boundary animal diseases of large economic 
importance. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as 
amended below solely for purposes of the Loan: 
 
Part 1
:
Monitoring, Surveillance and Control Systems
:
Strengthening MGAP’s 
monitoring, surveillance and control systems, through: 
 
(a) 
upgrading of existing laboratories to improve their capacity for diagnosis 
and sample testing; 
 
(b) 
strengthening of existing sanitary barriers; 
 
(c) 
scaling-up of the PTI by upgrading it into the SIRA; and 
 
(d) 
scaling up and full decentralization of the SNIG, to consolidate its 
operation at the national level and upgrade its capacity to manage the additional 
information that will result from the implementation of a universal tracking system, and 
to develop an operational link with the SISA. 
 
Part 2
:
Training, Education and Awareness
(a) 
Provision of training for veterinary professionals, working both in the 
public and private sector, in diagnosis of FMD, TSE, and avian flu; 
 
(b) 
organization of simulated outbreaks of FMD and avian flu to train staff 
and test the effectiveness of emergency plans drawn up by the Borrower, in coordination 
with the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health and poultry producers; 
 
(c) 
organization of various events to increase the awareness among producers 
of the risks of potential outbreaks of transboundary diseases and of key measures to be 
adopted in case of an actual outbreak, with special reference to FMD and avian flu; 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
provision of training for MGAP staff, field operators of the SIRA and the 
SNIG and producers for the implementation and operation of the SIRA and the SNIG; 
and 
 
(e) 
carrying out of a communication and information campaign on the merits 
of the SIRA and the new expanded SNIG. 
 
Part 3
:
Project Coordination and Management:
Support to the overall Project 
implementation, coordination and supervision, including, 
inter alia:
 
(a) 
financing of incremental operational and management costs; and 
 
(b) 
financing of short-term consultants for studies and technical support. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual. 
 
B. 
The Borrower shall:  (a) maintain until the completion of the Project, the PEU, 
with functions, responsibilities and staff acceptable to the Bank; and (b) furnish such 
PEU with all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the coordination 
and management of the Project. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
(b) 
Each Project Report shall also include:  (i) the financial reports referred to 
in Section II.B.2 below; (ii) a physical progress report; and (iii) procurement reports, all 
in accordance with the formats agreed with the Bank. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1. Goods. 
 
 All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to 
in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3.
 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions.  
Without limitation to the provisions in Section III. A.1 and 
A.2 of this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall govern the procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be). 
 
(a) 
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award. 
 
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive 
bidding. 
 
(c) 
Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding to be 
registered with local authorities, provided, however, that:  (i) the registration shall not 
include a prequalification; and (ii) the information to be requested from such bidders is of 
such nature that it will not discourage their participation.  
 
(d) 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in 
order for a contract to be subsequently awarded. 
 
(e) 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially 
concerned with this process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in 
paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines).  
 
(f) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their 
bidding documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with 
Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for bidding. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(g) 
There shall be no preference for domestic contractors. 
 
(h) 
The prices of contracts for consultants’ services over one year duration 
may be adjusted. 
 
(i) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure. 
 
(j) 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, 
requests for expressions of interest, the evaluation reports of bids and proposals, and 
contract awards of all goods, works, and consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall 
be published in a web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
.
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Procurement Method
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for goods or 
works procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding or Direct Contracting; 
(b) the first three contracts for goods and works procured on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and the first three such contracts procured on the basis of Shopping; 
(c) each contract for consultant
s’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (d) the first three contracts for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
Page  13
-
12
-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Goods (except as covered 
under Categories 3 and 4 below) 
 
1,125,000 
 
80% of expenditures 
incurred up to US$600,000 
and 50% thereafter 
(2) Con
sultants’ services (except 
as covered under Category 3 
below) 
 
4,275,000 
 
80% of expenditures 
incurred up to 
US$3,700,000 and 50% 
thereafter 
(3) Training, Education Programs 
and Workshops 
 
1,000,000 
 
80% of expenditures 
incurred up to US$700,000 
and 50% thereafter 
(4) Operating Expenditures 
 
100,000 
 
80% of expenditures 
incurred up to US$70,000 
and 50% thereafter 
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.08 (c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
            6,500,000 
 
For purposes of this table: 
 
(a) 
“Training, Education Programs and Workshops” means the reasonable 
cost of facilities and equipment rental, stationary, printed materials, media campaigns, 
travel and per diem of trainees and trainers, and training services; and 
 
(b) 
“Operating Expenditures” means the reasonable cost of travel of the PEU 
personnel and office supplies and communications for the PEU. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall 
be made for payments made: 
Page  14
-
13
-
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee; and 
 
(b) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may be made prior to this date but 
on or after January 1, 2007 for Eligible Expenditures.
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2012 
 
through October 15, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
Page  16
-
15
-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Original 
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions have the respective meaning therein set 
forth, and are hereby incorporated to this Agreement.  Additionally, the following 
definitions also constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“FMD” means foot and mouth disease. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
5. “MGAP” 
means 
Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca,
 the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Livestock, Agricultura and Fisheries, or any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the 
Original Loan Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time 
with the prior written consent of the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project 
between the Bank and the Borrower, dated August 8, 2001 (Loan No. 7070-UR), 
as amended on September 14, 2005. 
 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project monitoring and 
evaluation, set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
10. 
“PEU” means the project executing unit established by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 3697-UR, entered into 
between the Bank and the Borrower on March 4, 1994, for the Natural Resources 
Management and Irrigation Development Project. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
Page  18
-
17
-
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 6, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“PTI” means the Borrower’s individual livestock traceability pilot program. 
 
14. 
“SIRA” means the Borrower’s animal identification and registration system. 
 
15. 
“SISA” means the Borrower’s national animal health information system. 
 
16. 
“SNIG” means the Borrower’s national livestock information system. 
 
17. 
“TSE” means transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.
 
