Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3703-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 7.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR THE
PERKOA MINING EXPLORATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 2, 1984
Western Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1 million   =   U3$2,632
US$1.00               380 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                    British/US System
1 meter (m)                      3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.622 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (t)                 1.1 short ton (st)
ABBREVIATIONS
BGR       =  Bundesanstalt fuer Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe
BRGM      =  Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Miniares
BUVOGMI   =  Bureau Voltalque de la Geologie et des Mines
CCCE      =  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation ]3conomique
COFRAMINES=  Compagnie Frangaise des Mines
COMIKI    =  Compagnie Miniare du Kiere
DMIT      =  Dar Maal Al Islami Trust
EDF       =  European Development Fund
EIB       =  European Investment Bank
FAC       =  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GTZ       =  Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
SOMISA    =  Societe des Mines du Sahel
SOREMI    =  Soci&tg de Recherches Minieres
SOVIMPEC  =  Societe Voltalque d'Interventiorn Miniere a Petite Echelle
UNDP      =  United Nations Development Programme
UNRF      =  United Nations Revolving Fund For Natural Resources Exploration



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
Perkoa Mining Exploration and Technical Assistance Project
Credit andre2t Summar
Borrower:                   Republic of Upper Volta
Beneficiary:                The Government would transfer the proceeds of
the IDA credit as a grant to the Bureau
Volt:alque de la Geologie et des Mines (BUVOGMI)
Amount:                     SDR 7.0 million (US$7.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard
Project Objectives and      The project would provide the Government with a
Description:                technical and economic evaluation of the Perkoa
zinc-silver deposit as well as legal and
promotional assistance to attract private
foreign investors for the development of the
deposit. In addition it would help develop and
strengthen BUVOGMI's project preparation
capabilities. The project would be carried out
in two phases and would comprise:
A.   Phase One:  Delineation of the Depos±t and
Prefeasibility Study
(a)  drilling and delineation of the Perkoa
deposit and its neighboring anomalies.
Geochemical and geophysical surveys of the
area and preparation of an ore reserve and
a prefeasibility report;
(b)  assistance to the BUVOGMI to establish a
minera'l dressing laboratory and develop a
project preparation unit capable of
evaluating mining deposits, and to control
and monitor the evaluation program at
Perkoa (this assistance would also be
provided during Phase Two);
(c)  comparative review of mining legislation
and mining concession agreements, in
particular for base and precious metals and
preparation of model agreements and draft
contractual arrangements for Perkoa; and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii--
(d) assistance for the promotion of the Perl.oa
project towards private foreign investo:rs.
B.   Phase Two:  Mining Works, Feasibility Study
and Promotiorn
(e) to the extent that the results obtained in
Phase One are positive, drivage of a ramp
for access to the deposit, wnderground
drilling to determine mining conditions and
bulk sanipling of the ore for metallurgical
testing and preparation of a feasibility
st:udy for mining development.
Benefits:                    The project would provide the Government a
thorough evaluation of the Perkoa deposit in
order to attract private foreign investment
under the best possible terms for the country.
Should the potential reserves of 10 million tons
be proven, annual gross export earnings could
amount to US$50 million, equal to about 5
percent. of Upper Volta's GDP.
Risks:                       The major ris,k associated with the project
relates to the possible unattractiveness of the
deposit. for private investors both for market:
and political reasons.  The market risk is
however not excessive since zinc prices are
expected to remain stable and Perkoa would be a
low cost producer, IDA's involvement and Upper
Volta's professional approach to the
development of this deposit should ease the
perceived political risk, There is also a
transpcrtation risk due to the financial and
operating problems of the Regie des Chemins de
Fer Abidjan-Niger.  This risk will be assessed
during the prefeasibility/feasibility phases and
appropriate actions will be identified to ensure
that the ore which would be produced by the mine
can be transported to export markets.



Estimated Project Cost: a/
Foreign         Local       Total
…----------(US$  000)     …
Drilling and Mining Works
a.  Equipment                                 805             -          805
b.  Supplies and Materials                    565            145         710
c.  Laboratory and Mining Works             2P030            190       2,220
Sub-total                         3,400             335      3,735
Services
a.  Local Personnel                            -             400         400
b.  Exploration Consultant                  1,720            375       2,095
c.  Technical Advisory Services               330             60         390 b/
d.  Promotional Assistance                    150             -          150
Sub-total                         2,200             835      3,035
Total Base Cost                   5,600           1,170      6,770
Physical Contingencies                        380              70        450
Price Contingencies                           780            200         980
TOTAL PROJECT COST                6,760           1,440      8,200
Foreign    Local    Total       %
Financing Plan:                            --------(US$ '000)-------
IDA                                        6,500        900      7,400     90
Government (BUVOGMI)                         260        540        800     10
TOTAL                                      6,760      1,440      8,200    100
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements:
FY85     FY86       FY87    FY88
…----------(US$  000)     .
Annual         2,000    3,000      2,000      400
Cumulative    2,000    5,000       7,000   7,400
Rate of Return:              Not applicable
Project Completion Date:   September 30, 1987
Staff Appraisal Report:    No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared, but working papers and terms of
reference are available.
Map:                         IBRD 17438
a! Net of taxes and duties from which the project would be exempt.
b/ Includes a US$80,000 PPF advance.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR THE
PERKOA MINING EXPLORATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to SDR 7.0 million (US$7.4 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance
the Perkoa Mining Exploration and Technical Assistance project. The
proceeds of the credit would be passed on to BUVOGMI as a grant.
PART 1 - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum entitled "Upper Volta: Investment in Human
Resources" (4040-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 5, 1983. The following paragraphs are based on this report and
on a March 1984 economic updating mission.
Resource Endowment and Constraints
3.        Upper Volta is a country of 6.4 million inhabitants located in
the heart of West Africa. Like its neighbors in the Sahel, Upper Volta is
extremely poor (with a per capita income of US$210 in 1982) and heavily
dependent on agriculture, which directly accounts for 80-90 percent of
employment and exports and 35-40 percent of GUP. Rainfall is highly
variable from year to year, with most cultivated areas receiving only
600-900 mm. Soils are generally shallow, poorly structured, and easily
depleted by traditional methods of cultivation. There are few river
systems with a permanent water flow throughout the year; the potential for
irrigation and hydroelectric power is therefore very limited. Some
significant mineral resources (e.g. zinc, silver, phosphorus) have been
identified, although their full economic potential remains to be
determined. There are good geological prospects for further discoveries,
but little likelihood of hydrocarbon reserves. The scarcity of roads and
other infrastructure, long distances from seaports, and high energy costs
further constrain the country's development in all sectors.
4.        Over half of the population is concentrated on the central
plateau, which has led to its deforestation, overcultivation, and loss of
soil fertility. The impoverishment of this region has given rise to
spontaneous resettlement to the south and west, areas recently freed of
riverblindness (onchocerciasis), and to emigration to the coastal countries
(mainly the Ivory Coast).  Both demographic movements represent only
partial and temporary solutions to the challenge of raising incomes and
living standards for the population as a whole, which is growing an
estimated 2.6 percent per year in the 1980s (2.0 percent after emigration).



-2-
5.        While Upper Volta's development prospects are obviously
constrained by its natural and physical resource endowment, the
opportunities for economic growth over the long term will also depend in
large measure on the quality of its human rescurces. The education andl
health services provided to the population are at present extremely
underdeveloped, as indicated by a 20 percent primary enrollment rate and an
average life expectancy of 43 years, both among the lowest in the world.
As the experience of other countries has shown, increasing access to
primary education will be one of the most: important measures the country
can take over the next couple of decades to raise productivity and reduce
poverty.
Past Economic Performance and Recent Developments
6.        The 1970s.  The 1970s was a period of relative stability in the
domestic political environment and in economic policy. The country's
economic performance during the decade was very good by Sahelian standards,
with a 3.9 percent annual growth in GDP from 1970-79 (2.0 percent per
capita)1/. This creditable record was due in large part to substantial
inflows of foreign aid which followed the major 1973-74 drought and to a
relative absence of pricing and other policy distortions.  Cotton
production expanded rapidly during the period, while subsistence crops
(predominantly coarse grains) and livestock output grew more slowly than
population. The secondary and tertiary sectors, fueled by foreign aid
expenditure and remittances from emigrant workers, accounted for most of
the gains in national income. These inflows of foreign savings also
financed a large resource gap and a high level of investment, both
averaging 20-25 percent of GDP in the second half of the decade.
7.        Since Upper Volta belongs to the West African Monetary Union
(UMOA), which sets strict guidelines for monetary and balance of payments
movements in the member countries, public finance (fiscal and public
expenditure policy) is the only area of macroeconomic management in which
the Government can exercise much discretion.  The three predominantly
civilian administrations which ruled in the past decade pursued relatively
conservative financial policies, for the most part. However, modest
deficits in the overall budget began to appear in the second half of the
decade (CFAF 1.5-3.0 billion, or 1-1.5 percent of GDP), despite efforts to
control salary expenditures and improve tax collection. These shortfalls,
financed by the Central Bank within the approved credit ceilings, reflected
in part the rapid expansion of government activ!ties that was stimulated by
the influx of external development aid and outpaced the growth of fiscal
revenues. The deficitary trend also pointed to an absence of good
procedures for planning and budgeting public expenditure.  Public
investment, which focused on rural development and infrastructure, was
largely determined by the priorities of thes donors who financed 80-90
percent of public development expenditure with grants or highly
concessional loans. Although major errors in the selection of projects
were avoided during the decade, the lack of coordination of external aid
1/ Based on an IBRD estimate of 1.9 percent net growth of
resident population in 1975-80.



-3-
led to some inefficiency, in particular because of inadequate evaluation of
the Government's capacity to finance the counterpart requirements and the
eventual recurrent costs of the investments.
8.        1981-82.  In late 1980, a new military government came to power
which departed from the past prudence in financial management. The
Government undertook a number of costly investments with dubious economic
justification -- such as beginning the extension of the railroad to a
manganese deposit at Tambao, purchasing aircraft and military equipment,
and constructing a major new hotel. At the same time, civil service salary
raises expanded the recurrent budget 21 percent in 1982. The authorities
also increased the Government's debt by borrowing from local commercial
banks and contracting foreign loans on non-concessional terms, both as
suppliers' credits for equipment purchases and to finance the overall
budget deficit, which rose to CFAF 6-8 billion (1.6-2.4 percent of GDP) in
1981-82. State enterprises, especially those with deposits in the
Treasury, were drawn into the financial morass, leading to reciprocal
payment arrears between the enterprises and the Treasury and increasing
their demand for bank credit to finance operating expenditures.
9.        Political uncertainty in 1981-82 apparently contributed to a
tapering off in remittances from abroad and created administrative delays
which slowed aid disbursements. As a result, private and public investment
both declined, and modern industrial, commercial, and service activities
stagnated. The one major bright spot in the economy, however, was the
excellent cereals harvest in both 1981 and 1982.
10.       1983 to the present.  Upper Volta has experienced three changes
of government since November 1982, a degree of political instability which
took its toll on the modern sector of the economy and on the public
finances in 1983. The continuing recession was also aggravated near the
end of the year by drought which, although much less severe in Upper Volta
than in neighboring countries, reduced grains output to pre-1980 levels and
hit the livestock sector especially hard.   A crisis in confidence in the
business community led to a sharp drop in imports throughout most of the
year and to a consequent reduction in customs duties below the levels
planned in the budget. Although the growth in personnel payments was
modest, materials expenditures, in some part for the military, far exceeded
their budget authorization.  The Treasury accumulated an unprecedented
level of arrears - roughly CFAF 10 billion, mostly to the domestic utility
companies and to external creditors. The overall deficit (after accounting
for the arrears as a financing item) again reached CFAF 8 billion (2.1
percent of GDP), which was financed by borrowing from the Central Bank to
the maximum permitted by UMOA rules and by program credits from Algeria and
France.
11.       The present military government came to power in August 1983 on a
"revolutionary" platform stressing financial probity and the maximum
possible use of domestic resources in development (a nationalist,
"self-help" type of orientation). The Government's first concrete
statement of economic policy, the 1984 budget, features significant
austerity measures to curtail government salaries and recruitment, and



-4-
materials expenditures. However, service payments on internal and external
debt are projected to double from 10 percent of current budget expenditure
in 1983 to 20 percent in 1984, mainly because of the expiration of grace
periods on foreign concessional loans. Delayedi service payments to IDA
have become a serious problem in the past few months.  It is likely that an
overall deficit at least as large as last year's will appear again in 1984
if all of the counterpart financing obligations of development projects are
met (for which the budget provision is very inadequate), and if some of the
existing arrears are paid off. Commitments have already been obtained from
France and Libya for a total of CFAF 5 billion (US$13 million) in budgetary
support credits in 1984. Discussions are also underway with the IMF
regarding a possible Standby Program for the current year to return the
public financial situation to a sustainable equilibrium.
12.       To date, the current Government appears to be resisting pressures
to fundamentally enlarge the role of the public sector by expanding price
controls or by increasing state ownership of productive activities.
Although the authorities have announced their intention of according
priority to rural development, mining, and human resources, they have not
articulated any specific development program or strategy as yet.  Initial
actions have in fact aimed at promoting a few highly visible investments
(e.g. the Tambao railroad, the Sourou Valley irrigation project, and an
urban bus system), which can be cited as achievements of the new
Government, and at identifying small-scale rural projects which can provide
a focus for local self-help and political mobilization.
Long-Term Development Prospects
13.       Although certain issues of economic policy (discussed below) are
gaining in importance in Upper Volta, the major development problem
continues to be that of devising a workable strategy for economic growth
over the long term. The country's development prospects depend in the
first instance on reversing the deterioration of agricultural resources and
then on raising productivity in the primary sector. Both objectives
require widespread adoption of erosion control, reforestation, and
replacement of organic matter in tlhe soil, which implies integrating crop
cultivation with livestock husbandry. Additional research is necessary to
develop more effective technical packages and to adapt existing
recommendations to the difficult and varied ecological conditions. Sec:ond,
the country's mineral potential must be fully explored and exploited where
economically feasible in order to diversify sources of production and
exports and reduce the country's vulnerability' to its uncertain climate.
Third, a concerted effort is required to accelerate the development of
human capital, principally through widening access to primary education as
well as by improving basic health care and nutrition. Progress in these
areas will require reforms in sector strategy to reduce unit costs,
reallocate budgetary resources to better focus on primary services, and
increase cost recovery. Finally, development of infrastructure -- with an
emphasis on ensuring adequate maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
assets -- is needed to complement actions in the productive sectors.



-5-
Economic Policy Issues
14.       Three interrelated policy issues -- Fiscal Management, Public
Enterprises and Investment Planning -- which need to be addressed by the
Government are discussed below:
15.       Fiscal Management.  Restoring balance to the public finances will
inevitably require measures to cut back expenditures in several areas: on
personnel, to sustain and possibly extend the controls on salaries and
recruitment recently imposed; on public debt, through possible
rescheduling; and on materials and transfers, especially for defence and
student stipends. Although the tax base is limited, some scope exists for
increased taxes (on consumption goods and petroleum products, for example)
and for further improvement in tax collection. However, the major
underlying cause of the growing deficitary trend in the public sector is
the weakness of financial control and expenditure planning. Technical
ministries have contracted debt and hired personnel without the knowledge
or authorization of central ministries. There is no budgeting or
accounting system to monitor the large share of public investment financed
from abroad; thus, the related expenditure obligations for the Government,
both counterpart contributions and recurrent costs, are very poorly
estimated. The present Government has shown interest in tightening central
control of expenditure and in preparing a comprehensive budget to account
for ongoing investment, issues which are currently being discussed with the
IMF.
16.       Public Enterprises.  In the parastatal sector likewise, many
enterprises either do not keep complete financial accounts or do not report
them to the central Government, making it difficult to assess their impact
on the consolidated public financial situation. Although Upper Volta has
a number of major parastatals which are managed fairly efficiently, others
are experiencing increasing financial troubles, rooted partly in the
liquidity problems of the Treasury and in the central Government's
inability to adequately provide for its share of financing. Price and
tariff issues have also been a factor in some cases. The recent creation
of a Ministry of State Enterprises to act as a financial overseer, and
further actions to strengthen the public finances generally and ensure
realistic pricing are necessary steps to prevent further losses of
efficiency in the sector. As a first priority, a specific rehabilitation
program should be implemented for one vital enterprise which is approaching
a state of financial crisis: the railroad -- the Regie des Chemins de Fer
Abidjan-Niger (RAN) -- which links the Port of Abidjan with Ouagadougou and
carries 75 percent of Upper Volta's import and export trade.
17.       Investment Planning.  Investment planning is the weakest area of
economic policy in Upper Volta. The last development plan which, like the
first two, essentially comprised a list of projects for donor financing,
was prepared for the period 1977-81. As noted earlier, project selection
is in large part influenced by the interests of the major donors --
principally France, the Netherlands and Germany, the EDF, UNDP, and IDA.
The present Government has placed great emphasis on taking a firmer hand in



-6-
directing development assistance in the country, an objective which will
prove to be increasingly important as foresign aid becomes more scarce and
as the recurrent financing requirements of past investments place tighter
limits on the counterpart resources available for new projects.
18.       To improve the efficiency of overall public investment, the
Government will have to make a firm commitment to undertake a central
review of investment proposals by the planning ministry on the basis of
clearly defined development priorit:Les, estimated economic impact, and
budgetary implications.  The preparation of an annual investment budget, as
discussed in paragraph 15, will constitute a step forward by providing a
framework to integrate planning and budgeting procedures, thus enabling the
authorities to assess their capacity of absorbing new investment and the
ensuing recurrent costs.
19.       A UNDP Round Table is tentatively scheduled for early 1985 to
create a forum in which the Governmesnt can propose an investment program
for donor consideration. Since the Government's own resources for capital
expenditure will remain extremely limited even with improvements in
financial management, local cost financing and high cost-sharing ratios
will continue to be necessary features of external assistance for some
time.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATICiNS IN UPPER VOLTA
20.       The Bank Group's commitments in Upper Volta, as of March 31,
1984, amount to US$241.4 million for twenty-seven IDA credits. IFC has
made one investment. About US$130.0 million have been disbursed. The IDA
projects include fourteen in agriculture (including one supplementary
credit), six in transportation (including one supplementary credit), two in
education, three in telecommunications, one in industry (small and medium
scale enterprise), and one in urban development. Upper Volta is also onie
of the major beneficiaries of the Onchocerciasis Control Programme financed
by IDA and other donors. The IFC investment is for various plastic
products for the local market.  Of total IDA lending, the agriculture and
transportation sectors account for 44 and 34 percent, respectively. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC commitments as oiF
March. 31, 1984.
21.       Project implementation has generally been satisfactory over the
past 15 years, given the country's environmental, financial, institutional
and managerial constraints. However, the recent political turmoil and
resulting administrative and personnel changes have slowed the
implementation or start-up of many projects, in some cases necessitating
the Extension of closing or effectiveness dates. In keeping with the
record of good project performance, Upper Volta's disbursement rate
compares favorably to that of other countries in the region although it,
too, has deteriorated recently. Disbursements are expected to slowly
return to normal levels over the next twelve months as the political and
administrative environment stabilizes.



-7-
22.       The Government has recently instituted strict clearance
procedures for procurement contracts which, although intended to control
costs and corruption, may prove to be a further source of delay. Project
implementation is also hampered by fiscal management problems which have
made it difficult for Government to promptly meet its counterpart funding
obligations. Financial controls on some projects remain weak, although on
others the situation has noticeably improved with technical assistance and
close supervision by IDA. Future projects will continue to address
financial issues through the provision of project-related technical
assistance and training and through attention to cost recovery. However, a
*         substantial overall improvement in the financial execution of investment
projects will require reforms in the central administration to better
integrate investment planning with the budgeting of counterpart and
recurrent expenditures, as discussed in Part I.
23.       Bank Group operations in Upper Volta have been oriented mainly
towards exploring and developing the country's productive potential,
especially in agriculture. Since, until quite recently, macroeconomic
policy has not presented major obstacles to the country's development,
IDA's dialogue with the Government has focused primarily on the question of
overall development strategy (e.g. approaches to accelerate the development
of human resources) and on policy issues of relevance to particular
sectors.
24.       Although the sector dialogue, except in transportation, continues
to be excellent, the more general economic dialogue has made less progress,
in part because of the recent deterioration in financial performance and
because of the unwillingness of the current Government or its predecessors
to focus on the issues of investment planning and programming. However,
disagreement with the Government concerning investment priorities in the
transport sector has been the most serious issue in the policy dialogue.
The present Government has retained the objective of completing the
railroad extension to Tambao, despite every indication that the project is
uneconomic (see para. 32 below). At the same time, the authorities have
been reluctant to confront the need for major operational reforms and
financial rehabilitation of the RAN (para. 16). However, at the
Government's request, the UNDP is currently financing a complete review of
the Tambao project, including all related components (the rail extension,
the proposed manganese mine and cement plant, which would generate the
major freight traffic, and their impact on the existing railroad and the
port of Abidjan). The results of this study are expected in the Fall of
1984. In view of the lack of donor interest in financing the Tambao
project and the increasing realism with which the Government is viewing its
financial situation, we are optimistic that an eventual satisfactory
resolution of the issues regarding Tambao and the RAN will be attained.
25.       IDA's pipeline for FY84-86 includes projects in each of the areas
of primary importance to long-term development. The proposed Perkoa Mining
and Technical Assistance project would help Government evaluate a promising
zinc-silver deposit in order to expand the country's productive and export
potential if possible. A Fertilizer project (to be presented in early
FY85) aims to secure imported supplies of a key agricultural input and
rationalize its use by eliminating input price distortions. Future
agricultural projects under preparation focus on improving the delivery of



-8-
agricultural services (research and extension) and strengthening livestock
production.  A third Education project and a first Health project,
scheduled for FY85 and early FY86, respectively, would help to improve the
human resource base by expanding primary school enrollments and improving
rural health care delivery systems. Follow-up by IDA in these two sectors
through subsequent credits is envisaged, since expansion of primary
education and health services will requirfe substantial external support for
at least 10-15 years. Each of the above projects will have a sectoral
orientation by addressing issues of investment strategy, institutional
development, and financial policies.
26.       The processing of highway construction and railroad
rehabilitation projects which are under discussion is contingent upon the
resolution of issues concerning investment priorities in the transport
sector. The size and content of IDA's lending program over the next
several years depend in large measure on the progress in our policy
dialogue and the evolving evidence of Government's development priorities
and its performance in economic management.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
Introduction
27.        The minIng industry in Upper Volta is at an early stage of
development due, to a large extent, to the landlocked nature of the country
with the concomitant infrastructure problems, aLnd a relatively low level. of
mining exploration, despite propitious geological conditions. During the
seventies, the country had high hopes of establishing a mining industry
with the development of an. important manganese deposit at Tambao in the
North East (Map IBRD 17438).  The project proved to be uneconomic primarily
because of the required large infrastructure investment and low manganese
price projections. In view of the difficualties faced for the development
of the Tambao project, the Government shifted to a strategy favoring
exploration in areas close to existing infrastructure with an emphasis on
base and precious metals. With the creation in. 1978 of the Bureau
Voltalque de la G6ologie et des Mines (BU'/OGMI) as an autonomous government
agency in charge of exploration and development in the mining sector,
working in close collaboration with foreig:n donors, this strategy has led
to some important discoveries.  Most; notable among these is a massive
sulfide zinc-silver deposit at Perkoa, with good potential for commercial
development.
Resource Base
28.        The mineral resource potential of most of Upper Volta is
considered quite favorable, Nearly all oiE the country is underlaln by
rocks of Precambrian age, more particularly the Birrimian and Anti-
Birr1iian formations, known locally as the Baoule-Mossi shield. This
shield is characterized by the formation of greenstone belts which were
intruded into major fractures of the granite basement and then broken upi.
The formation is a mega-breccia made up o. large fragments of granite



-9-
basement cemented by belts of volcanic rocks. These in turn cover the full
range of volcanic activity from lava flows to tuffs, with basaltic,
andesitic and rhyolitic facies. The rhyolite belts are particularly
significant since they reach a thickness of up to 100 meters, notably at
Perkoa. This geological complex also contains numerous granitic plugs
which cover the full range in composition from granite to syenite, and from
granodiorite to diorite. They represent the extrusive centers which
provided the heat necessary for circulation of hydrothermal waters, and
remobilization of the host rocks. From a geological point of view, the
Baoule-Mossi shield presents striking similarities to the Canadian shield
and to the Precambrian formations in the USSR and Australia.  In this
respect, the zinc-silver deposit found at Perkoa has reconfirmed that the
conditions which led to base and precious metal ore deposits in these
countries are also present in Upper Volta. The Perkoa deposit itself has a
potential of up to 10 million tons with average grades of over 20 percent
zinc, 60 grams per ton of silver and less than one percent lead. As it
lies in a mineral district about 240 km long and 20 km wide the prospects
for finding other deposits of the same or smaller size are quite good.
Exploration
29.       Exploration is carried out by BUVOGMI, with the assistance of
multilateral and bilateral organizations or in association with foreign
partners. Foreign donors active in exploration are: (i) the Federal
Republic of Germany (1973) through its geological survey agency (BGR) and
its aid agency (GTZ) in the exploration for diamonds at Barsalogho and
phosphates at Kodjari; (ii) UNDP (since 1976) which helped finance the
discovery of Perkoa; (iii) the Dutch Government (1980) which is financing
the exploration of a porphyry copper deposit at Gongondy; and (iv) the
United Nations Revolving Fund for Natural Resources Exploration (UNRF)
(1980) financing exploration for nickel and gold at Kwademen and Bonga.
30.       In the Dori-Yalogo area, BUVOGMI followed upon artisanal mining
of the weathered portion of gold bearing quartz veins, with geological
mapping, geochemical sampling, trenching in the primary veins and by
diamond drilling to locate several small gold deposits. Three joint
ventures have been formed during 1983 to undertake detailed exploration of
these deposits, with BUVOGMI holding 51 percent of equity in these
ventures: (i) the Syndicat Bouroum-Diouga with the Bureau de Recherches
Geologiques et Miniares (BRGM) of France; (ii) the Socifte des Mines du
Sahel (SOMISA) with private French and Swiss interests; and (iii) a joint
venture with the Dar Al-Maal Al-Islami Trust (DMIT) an Arab banking
consortium. The data presently available indicate that one or more of
these deposits might support small scale mines. The BUVOGMI is also
associated with BRGM on a 1/3:2/3 basis in the Syndicat Volta Noire which
is carrying out exploration on permits held by BUVOGMI in and around the
Poura gold deposit. BUVOGMI's participation in its ventures with BRGM is
financed by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) of France.



-10-
Mining Development and Prospects
31.       Results obtained in exploration, however, have yet to be
translated into mine development.  Several reasons explain this situation.
First, given BUVOGMI's rescent creation and the long lead time necessary to
open new mines it is not unusual that mining development has not yet taken
place. Second, the expertise required in the delineation and feasibility
stage of a mining deposit: is not available at BUVOGMI.  The agency laclks
the qualified mining engiLneers and economists needed to carry out
successful mining deposits evaluation. Finally, the limited financial
resources available to BIJVOGMI have in turn made it impossible to alloczate
funds for compiete delineation and evaluation of deposits identified during
initial exploration by BIJVOGMI with bilateral and multilateral agencies'
financing, as the latter's efforts are primar:Lly directed towards base
exploration and not mininig development. For t:he past decade the country
has had only two mining prospects, the Tambao manganese deposit and the
Poura Gold mine.
32.       During the seventies the development: of the mining sector was
linked with a manganese mining project at Tambao, whose ore bodies are
located more than 340 km to the North East of Ouagadougou. In 1975 the
Government created a consortium, the Societe Mini4re de Tambao, to carry
out their development. A feasibility study undertaken in 1977 estimated the
total cost of the project: (including the construction of 340 km of rai:L
line) at US$172 million 4n 1977 US dollars. Government approached several
financial institutions, including IDA, to finance the project. However,
the responses were negative because the market: prospects for manganese were
such that the Tambao project alone could not -justify the construction of
the railway and the supplemental civil works that would have to be
undertaken at the Abidjan port to handle the Tambao manganese ores During
1981 Government attempted to revive the Tambao project but was unable to
secure external financing, again largely due to the continuing softness of
the manganese market and the by then enormously increased mining and
development and infrastructure costs which had escalated by 1982 to US$320
million. In 1982-83, however, the Government did construct with its own
resources earth works and bridges for the Ouagadougou-Kaya section of the
railroad line.  At present work on this railroad section has been slowed to
a minimal level and the Government is now awaiting the outcome of the
UNDP-financed review of the whole Tambao project (para. 24). Early
commercial development of the Perkoa deposit would provide Government with
a profitable alternative route for developing Upper Volta's mineral
rescurces.
33.       BUVOGMI has participated in the creation of several operating
mining companies with private foreign and local interests. The Societe de
Recherche Miniere (SOREMI) with the Republic of Upper Volta (60 percent),
the Islamic Development Bank (20 percent), and the Compagnie Frano:aise des
Mines (COFRAMINES) (20 percent), a subsidiary of BRGM, was established in
1981 to develop the Poura gold deposit, mined from 1961 to 1966.
Subsequent exploration iclentified additional reserves estimated at: 1.5
million tons grading 15 grams of gold per ton. Total investment is
estimated at US$40 million, which is bein« provided by the mine's
shareholders, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), thes
European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Development Fund (EDF), and



-li-
the West African Development Bank. The project, under the management of
COFRAMINES, is scheduled to start production in 1984 with an annual
production of two tons of gold. The Societe Voltalque d'Intervention
Miniare a Petite Echelle (SOVIMPEC) with private local interests is
exploiting a small antimony deposit at Mafoulou. Finally, the Compagnie
Miniere du Kiere (COMIKI), also with local interests, is to mine a small
manganese deposit at Kiere. The latter company is a small venture and not
yet in operation because of financial and marketing constraints.
The Perkoa Zinc-Silver Deposit
t
34.       An early commercial development is foreseen at Perkoa.  With the
deposit some 35 km away from the existing rail line (RAN) at Koudougou and
the Volta Noire river in its vicinity, the need for large new
infrastructure works is very much reduced. Expected ore reserves are in
the 10 million ton range making likely a planned mine output of about
500,000 tons per year of quite high grade ore with an average content of
over 20 percent zinc and 60 grams per ton of silver. No smelter would be
built and the ore would be concentrated and transported by rail to
Abidjan. Total investments for exploration as well as development of
Perkoa is estimated at US$100 million (in 1983 dollars) for an annual
output of 200,000 tons of concentrate containing about 100,000 tons of zinc
metal and 30 tons of silver metal (approximately US$50 million at present
day prices).
35.       The coming into production of Perkoa would have practically no
effect on the world zinc trade patterns, since it would add less than one
percent of world zinc mine capacity. Its comparative advantages over other
new zinc projects, however, are twofold: (i) it could supply zinc
concentrates to European and Japanese markets, that are forecast to be in
short supply during the next decade; and (ii) the richness of its ore would
mean it should produce at costs lower than the average in the industry.
The IBRD Commodity Report (Report No. 814/82 of July 1982) noted that
vertical integration in the industry, especially in Latin America and
Australia, has had the effect of reducing significantly the availability of
zinc concentrates to European and Japanese smelters. Although some
smelter closings are expected, inadequate supply of zinc concentrates is
expected to continue throughout the 1980s and beyond.  In that respect the
market prospects for the potential production at Perkoa appear good as
evidenced by the preliminary interest shown by several mining companies
towards the development of the deposit.
Strategy for Mineral Development
36.       Mining sector development in Upper Volta is seriously constrained
by a lack of financial resources, infrastructure and water supply
problems. The country is landlocked and the capital, Ouagadougou is 1,150
km away from the port of Abidjan. The bulk of the import-export traffic is
carried by the rail line (RAN) that links Ouagadougou and Abidjan, and
through the Ouagadougou-Bobo Dioulasso-Abidjan road. Recognizing these
hindrances, the Government has adopted a strategy for the development of
the sector whose main features are:



-12-
Ui) Concentration of exploration effort towards minerals of high
value (e.g., precious and base metals, diamonds) and around the
country's main communication axis;
(ii)  Developing mining exploitation on a medium and small scale
through the creation of mining companies with participation of
private (foreign and local) interests;
(i±i)  Strenaithening of BUVOGMI's capabilities in the area of
exploration and later of mining development; and
Civ) Attracting foreign firms to provide financial resources and
teclnical and managerial skills needed in the development of
commercially mature targets in collaboration with the BUVOGMI.
37.       Despite the serious infrastructure problems and the limited local
and foreign financial resources, there is rene!wed optimism in the potential
for development of the sector because of an irnteresting and yet untapped
mineral resource base in particular with the discovery of Perkoa. External
assistance provided to the Government has enabled it so far to initiate an
inventory of the country's mineral resources and to upgrade BUVOGMI's
capabilities in the first stages oiE exploration.  The multilateral and
bilateral agencies' further involvement is however constrained both by
their mandate and their own lack of financial resources.  It is in this
contzxt that IDA involvement in the sector could provide both the financial
and technical assistance needed by the Government to bring discoveries to
the feasibility stage.  Such an assistance would act as a catalyst and
attract private sector investment while at the same time strengthen
BUVOGMI's pro:iect preparation capabilities, and help the Government in its
negotiations with private partners,
Bureau yolaie de la G6ologie et des M:ines (BUVOGMI)
38a       In 1978, the Government created the BW VOGMI as an autonomous
go-vernment inst-tution to control and adtainister all mining and hydrocarbon
rela-ed activities in Upper Volta under the auspices of the Ministry of
Commerce, Industry and Mines. Prior to that, responsibility for mining and
geoliogical matters rested with the Mining Directorate of the Ministry. The
BUVOGMI enjoys financial autonomy, has authority over the planning,
programming and execution of all mineral exploration and exploitation in
the :ountry, and enforces the mineral legislation.  BUVOGMI's annual budget
Ls a~ound US$2 million with financial resources coming primarily from
earmarked taxes on petroleum products, levies on quarries and industrial
concerns and revenues from its activities as contractor.  It is headed by a
Director General9 a geologist by training, who reports to an 11-member
Executive Board nominated by the Government. rhe Board is chaired by the
Minister oF Commerce, Industry and Mines, with the Minister of Finance as
Vice--Chairman.  Other members include representatives of the different
ministries and the State General Auditor.  The Director General of BUVOGMI
is assisted by a Deputy and exercises his authority over four departments:



-13-
(i) the Direction des Mines et des Hydrocarbures, which is in charge of
enforcing the mining law and carries out all hydrocarbon and energy related
studies; (ii) the Direction de la Recherche Geologique et Miniere in charge
of the programming and execution of all mineral exploration; (iii) the
Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres in charge of all
financial and administrative matters; and (iv) the Direction Regionale de
la Geologie et des Mines which acts as representative of the Director
General in Bobo-Dioulasso. An independent unit responsible for all
drilling activities reports directly to the Director General.
39.       The BUVOGMI employs 260 permanent personnel and 40 seasonal field
workers. Higher level staff, in majority geologists, number 30. The bulk
of these staff hold graduate degrees from foreign universities and are
competent in their areas of specialization, in particular in geological
exploration. BUVOGMI suffers from a lack of experienced mining engineers
and mineral economists capable of undertaking prefeasibility/feasibility
studies on prospects identified during the exploration stage. Management
is fully aware of the situation and a mineral economist will be appointed
in the Project Preparation Unit by mid 1984. In the legal area, BUVOGMI
lacks qualified resources required in contract preparation and negotiations
with foreign parties. To alleviate this situation legal assistance is
provided when needed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Mines.
Based on cost/effectiveness considerations, it is not envisaged that
BUVOGMI will develop legal capacity of its own in the short to medium-term
as such capacity is available at the Ministry. BUVOGMI has limited
facilities in chemical and geochemical laboratory analysis as well as
geophysical and drilling equipment.
40.       In a relatively short t:ime, BUVOGMI, in collaboration with
bilateral and multilateral agencies in the country, has succeeded in
discovering interesting mineral deposits. Its staff has gained practical
experience in exploration projects and has demonstrated its technical
knowledge. Along with its expertise in geological exploration, BUVOGMI has
developed services, i.e., geochemical and geophysical surveys and ground
water and diamond drilling that make it a model institution in West
Africa. From its initial role as a catalyst in fostering exploration in
the country, it has evolved into a full-fledged geological survey
organization, capable of initiating and carrying out its own exploration
program.
IV. THE PROJECT
Introduction
41.       The proposed project was identified during an IDA mission to
Upper Volta in October 1982 and appraised in May 1983. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. in March 1984. The Voltaic delegation was headed
by Mr. H. B. Bessin, Economic Advisor in the Ministry of Planning. A



-14-
Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning of this Report, and a
Supplementary Project Data sheet is given in Annex III. No separate Staff
Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Pro            ound
42.       The Perkoa deposit was discovered in 1979/80 by a UNDP-financed
exploration campaign of the Upper Voltan greenstone belt. With a US$80,000
advance under the Project Preparation Facility, BUVOGMI retained the
services of MINOREX, of Canada to assist in: (i) reviewing the results of
exploration carried out earlier on the Perkoa massive sulfide deposit and
the Dori-Yalogo gold deposits; (ii) evaluating potential ore reserves in
those two areas; and (iii) proposing an exploration program leading to
feasibility studies for the development of both these deposits. The
consultant's reports were available 4n April 1983. On the basis of these
reports and the prospects for early commercial development, the Government
requested IDA financing for the proposed project on the evaluation of
Perkoa.
Project Objectives
43.       The main objective of the proposed project is to provide the
Government and BUVOGMI with a complete technical and economic evaluation of
the Perkoa massive sulfide zinc-s:Llver deposit in order to attract
private foreign investors. The project would also provide legal assistance
for contractual arrangements between the Government and foreign mining
companies on Perkoa and help develop and strengthen BUVOGMI's capacity to
evaluate other ore deposits and promote them to outside interests. The
project would be carried out in two phases: Phase One would assess
reserves and prepare a prefeas4bility study; and Phase Two would establish
the deposit's commercial development feasibililty.
Project Description
44.       The project, would comprise:
--during Phase One--
(a)  drilling and delineation of the Per'koa deposit and its
neighboring anomalies. Geoche!mical and geophysical surveys of
the area and preparation of an ore reserve and a prefeasibility
report;
(b) technical assistance to the BU'VOGMI to establish a mineral
dressing laboratory and develcp a project preparation unit
capable of evaluating mining deposits, and to control and monitor
the evaluation program at Perkoa (this assistance would also be
provided during Phase Two);



-15-
(c)  comparative review of mining legislation and mining concession
agreements in particular for base and precious metals and
preparation of model agreements and draft contractual
arrangements for Perkoa; and
(d) assistance for the promotion of the Perkoa project to attract
potential foreign investors;
--during Phase Two--
(e)  to the extent that the results obtained in Phase One are
positive, drivage of a ramp for access to the deposit,
underground drilling to determine mining conditions and bulk
sampling of the ore for metallurgical testing and preparation of
a feasibility study for mining development.
Phase One
45.        Drilling and delineation of Perkoa.  To achieve this objective,
the project would finance a drilling program of 22 holes (9,000 m) over a
12-month period.  The spacing between holes in this program would be about
80 m.  It is estimated that one or two bl]ocks would be drilled at a 40 m
spacing to check that the variation in grades obtained is within
statistically acceptable limits.  Additional drilling, which would take
place in the upper portion of the zones, would be 800 m per block, for a
total of 1,600 m. Detailed surface exploration work would be undertaken on
an area 6 km by 3 km, with the long axis on the strike of the deposit.
Geological mapping and litho-geo chemistry would be performed on all the
outcrops in this area. Geophysical surveys (magnetometric,
electromagnetic--Maxmin type, and gravimetric) would systematically cover
this area on profiles spaced at 100 m. Any anomalies detected in these
surveys would be followed by ground geochemistry on a tight grid pattern
(10-15 m spacing).  The third drilling component would consist of follow-up
of the geophysical and geochemical anomalies.  It is expected that some
2,400 m of drilling would be necessary. The total diamond drilling
therefore would be 13,000 m. Drilling, field, laboratory and office
equipment would be provided to carry out the work.
46.        Prefeasibility Study.  Complementary work would be initiated
towards the end of Phase One to provide the first elements for a
prefeasibility study. Attention would be given to collecting data of use
in mining, such as angle of the formations with the core, and mineral
alteration. Separate testing on samples of each type of ore would be
carried out. An initial review of manpower requirements, training and
infrastructure needs would be undertaken. In particular, the study would
assess required ore transportation facilities (rail and port handling)
especially in light of the ex:Lsting railroad's (RAN) operational and
financial difficulties (see paras. 16 and 24). A market study would also
be carried out to identify potential users of Perkoa's production. A
prefeasibility study would be prepared and would require about 3 months to
be completed.



47J                 Prearation Unit..  The project would provide BUVOGMI with
(i) establishment of a mineral dressing laboratory; (ii) expert geological
a,id minig- assistance in the monitoring of the detailed exploration to be
car:ied ouat  Perkoa; and (iii) assistance to a Project Preparation Unit
to nna.yze ard evaluate mining deposits and prepare prefeasibility
studies,  This sect4on would include a runeral economist.  The appointment
o;" a u1 ner-al seonomist acceptable to IDAL by BUVOGMI would be a condition of
effetccieness (.Section 5.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
Tb.i?S assistance would continue during Phase Two of the project.  On-the-job
-narng- ;would be provided by the consultants including possibly more
fo--mai traning abroad.  In view of BUVOGMI's experience in exploration,
t1h;S type o- as;sistance is considered to be adequate as it addresses its
main lnslitutlonal weakness.  In BUVOGMI's case, insitutional strengthening
can best 7De ach4 hved tharough actual staff participation during the
evaL.ation of the ore deposits.
48.       Lz!Aa:  aassistance,  This component would include: (i) a
comparati.e review of existing min.ing legislation in selected countries and
of concession agreements as they apply to base and precious metals; (ii) a
review of .he ex4sting tax regime applicable to mining companies in Upper
Vol.a as wel! as the country's investment code; and (iii) preparation of
model agreements and draft contractual arrangements for Perkoa.  Terms of
reference for She legaL assistance component would be prepared by the
Govc.rnment for IDA's approval no later than October 31, 1984 and the
appc'n-,lnent v    tf a legal consultant would take place no later than February
28I .198_; (Secclon 2.03(b) of the Project Agreement (PA)).
490       P-romot onal Assistance.  Towards the end of the delineation
program, o.vernment would solicit investment proposals from foreign
companies.  Assistance in the preparation of an investment prospectus and
tlne promotion of the project to outside invest:ors would be provided.
500        It is estimated that Phase One will be completed in 15 months.
Techn:ial, legal and promotional assistance would be carried out in
parallel with the drilling and delineation of Perkoa and the preparation of
the prefeasibCIty study.  To ensure that the project's objectives are met,
the Governmenlr  will undlertake not to sign any agreement with third parties
on Perkoa be'fore the end of Phase One (Section 2.07(b) of the PA).  During
the course of Phase One and no later thana June 30, 1985, BUVOGMI and IDA
shall. aaree on a promotion strategy and the preparation of an investment
prospectus iFor Perkoa directed towiards mining companies active in the zinc
concentratzs and metal markets (Section 2,05(c) of the PA).  Following the
preDaration o1 the investment prospectus BUVOGMI would solicit investment
prspssal  f;rD, at least three mining companies with interest in zinc
con'cntrates or metal (Section 2.05(c) ofE the PA).  All proposals submitted
for t'n deveslopient of Perkoa would be made available to IDA for its review
and  cm,teazs e.Section 2.05(c) of the PA).  No later than two months after
the   mpletti oGa of Phase One, BUVOGMI sha:Ll submit to IDA a prefeasibility
r-tP. on Perko?- (Section 2.05(a) of the PA) as well as the review and
draf-  .ontractual arrangements prepared under the legal assistance program
$SezZion @207(a) of the PA).



-17-
51.       To the extent that the results of Phase One demonstrate the
technical, economic and financial viability of Perkoa and confirm the good
market prospects, Phase Two of the project would be undertaken, and its
precise scope and appropriate timing agreed upon by IDA and the Government
no later than three months after submission of the prefeasibility study and
receipt of IDA's comments thereon by Government (Section 2.05(b) of the
PA). Before entering into an agreement on Perkoa with a joint venture
partner at the end of Phase I, BUVOGMI shall ensure that the economic and
technical terms and conditions of such agreement are acceptable to IDA
(Section 2.07(b) of the PA). Before making any disbursements in respect
of Phase Two, IDA needs to be satisfied with the plan of action prepared
under Section 2.05(b) of the PA in respect of such Phase (Schedule 1,
para. 3 of the DCA).
Phase Two
52.       Mining works and feasibility study.  The work would focus on
underground mine development and metallurgical testing necessary for the
preparation o' a feasibility study. Access to the zones would be through a
ramp driven in the footwall at a grade of 15 percent. This ramp would
later service the mining operation, and possibly raise the shaft required
to hoist ore during production and its location would be chosen with these
objectives in mind. Initially, the ramp would be driven to a vertical
depth of 200 m with drifts driven in the ore at the 100 m and 200 m
levels. A total 1,350 m of ramp and 1,000 m of drift driving would be
undertaken. This work would permit correlation between the diamond
drilling results and geological data found underground. It would also
provide information essential to determine the mining method and plan the
mining operations. Bulk samples could also be obtained for a small scale
pilot plant ore testing to firm up the treatment process and for equipment
sizing. An estimated 5,000 m of underground diamond drilling would be
required. To ensure that a fearsibility study of bankable quality is
prepared, BUVOGMI will coordinate and exchange views with IDA at the time
of preparation of the study, on its scope and terms of reference (Section
2.06 of the PA). It is estimated that 15 months will be required for
completion of the mining works and feasibility study.
Project Implementation
53.       The drilling, delineation and preparation of the prefeasibility
study described in Phase One of the project would be entrusted to
experienced exploration consultants working closely with the BUVOGMI.
Equipment financed by IDA would be used by the exploration consultants to
carry out the drilling program. Assaying services would be provided
through BUVOGMI's existing laboratory and would be contracted with
reputable international firms for comparisons. If no qualified joint
venture partner has been found (Para. 49) the exploration consultants would
have responsibility over Phase Two, in particular for the preparation of
the feasibility study, but experienced foreign contractors would be used to
carry out the mining works. Terms of reference of the exploration
consultants have been prepared by BUVOGMI and approved by IDA. The



-18-
appointment of the exploration consultants would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the DCA). BIJVOGMI has already appointed
counterpart personnel to the exploration consultants that have been found
acceptable by IDA. In addition to the exploratzion consultants mentioned
above, other qualified consultants would be reta4ned by BUVOGMI to provide
the technical, legal and promotional assistance under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA. The project is expected to start in October 1984 anad to
be completed by September 1987.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$8.2 million, including the US$80,000 PPF advance which is
nearing full disbursement. A cost table is presented in the Credit and
Project Summary. Approximately half of the total cost would be spent
during Phase One and the other half during Phase Two. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$6.8 million and consists of consulting
services, materials and equipment. An estimated 260 man-months of
consultants' services, excluding BUVOGMI's input, will be required. The
cost estimates are based on June 1983 prices, and include physical
contingencies of 7 percent (these contingencies relate to the volume of
work to be carried out). Price contingencies are based on escalation for
foreign rates, in US dollar terms of 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in L985
and 6 percent in 1986, and for local costs of 1.0 percent in 1984, 1985 and
1986.
55.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$7.4 million would finance 96 per-
cent of foreign expenditures and 63 percent of local expenditures, or 90
percent of total project cost, with BUVOGMI providing the remainder (10
percent) which would consist of salaries and subsistence of local staff and
10 percent of expenditures related to the construction of the access ramp.
The proceeds of the credit would be passed to BUVOGMI as a grant. The
exploration expenditures would constitute part of the Government's equity
contribution in a joint-venture partnership for the development of Perkoa.
Assurances were obtained from Government that it would exempt the present
project from all taxes and duties.  Due to GovErnment's severe budgetary
constraints and its inability to prefinanze expenditures, a Special Account
(Revolving Fund) would be established to ensure that funds for the proposed
project would be made available when needed. I'he Special Account, operated
by BUVOGMI would be established in a local comniercial bank with the initial
deposit by IDA of US$350,000 to cover acquisition of vehicles and operating
expenditures, camp construction and provision of some office equipment. It
is expected that the account would 'be used mainly for payments against
items procured locally. Establishment of this Special Account would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(z) of the DCA). This Account
would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence, to be provided
to IDA by BUVOGMI, of payments made from the account for goods and services
required for the project.



-19-
Procurement and Disbursements
56.       The following procurement procedures would apply:
Project Element                  US$'000   Procurement Method
1. Equipment
(i) Drilling equipment      390      Sole source.  This for standardi-
zation purposes since all of
BUVOGMI's drilling equipment (six
rigs) are from the same
manufacturer.
(ii) Vehicles and office
equipment               300      Local Competitive Bidding.
(iii) Laboratory equipment   280       Limited International Bidding.
2.  Materials and Supplies a/    850        Local shopping.
3.  Mining Works                 2,100      International Competitive Bidding.
4.  Consultants                  3,380      IDA Guidelines.
5.  Unallocated                    100      One of the above.
7,400
All contracts exceeding US$100,000 in value would be reviewed by IDA before
being awarded.
57.       The estimated disbursement schedule is given in the Credit and
Project Summary. The IDA credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
Percentage    Percentage
of Local     of Foreign
Project Element                           US$'000  Expenditures  Expenditures
1. Equipment
(i)  Drilling equipment                390        100             100
(ii)  Vehicles and office equipment   300          100             100
(iii) Laboratory equipment               280        100             100
2.  Materials and Supplies a/                 500        100             100
3.  Mining Works                            2,100         90             90
4.  Consultants                             3,380       100              100
5.  Deposit in Special Account a/             350        -
6.  Unallocated                               100
7,400
a/ Out of the US$850,000 allocated to this category, US$350,000 are to be
deposited in the Special Account.



-20-
All disbursements from the Credit Account would be fully documented except
for normal operating expenditures (mainly fuel, spare parts, and some local
materials and supplies) which would be against certified statements of
expenditures. Such project documentation would be available for
verification by IDA supervision missions. An iadvance of US$80,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility would be refunded upon effectiveness of the
Credit (Section 2.02(b) of the DCA). A condition for disbursing the funds
relevant to Phase Two of the assessment of Perkoa is for Phase One to
conclude to the satisfaction of IDA that Phase Two is warranted (para. 3,
Schedule 1 of the DCA). The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1987.
Reporting Requirements
58.       BUVOGMI would submit a progress report to IDA within one month of
the completion of each quarter, and a Project Completion Report no later
than six months after the Credit closing date (Section 2.09(d) of the PA).
BUVOGMI would also keep separate accounts for the Project (Section 4.01(a)
of the PA). The Government and BUVOGMI would select an independent auditor
satisfactory to IDA to prepare annual audits of the project's accounts
(Section 4.02 of the PA).
Benefits and Risks
59.       The major benefit of the project will be to provide the
Government, through the evaluation and promotion of Perkoa, with the
necessary technical, market, economic and legal tools to attract private
foreign investors under the best possible terms for the country. Total
project cost is a small fraction of the estimated value of the deposit.
The importance of the Perkoa discovery, within the regional geological
context is underscored by the fact that it is the first such discovery in
West Africa in an environment similar to the Canadian precambrian shield
where many of these deposits have been discovered. The deposit itself is a
rich zinc-silver deposit which has all the necessary characteristics for
early development. In addition, by providing the BUVOGMI with hands-on
experience and expert assistance in the evaluation of such deposits, it is
expected that this experience will prove most valuable for future
exploration work in the country.
60.       The eventual development of the Perkoa deposit, with potential
reserves of 10 million tons would make a substantial contribution to Upper
Volta's financial resource base and balance of payments, with anticipated
annual gross export earnings of about US$50 million in 1983 terms,
representing about one-third of goods exported and approximately 5 percent
of the country's GNP. Also, the project would represent a major step in
stimulating mining development in the country and would constitute an
important source of employment.



-21-
61.       The major risk associated with the project relates to the
possible unattractiveness of the deposit for investors both for market and
political reasons. Depressed market conditions for base metals in general
and zinc in particular could delay early development of the deposit. These
market risks are not excessive as the market for zinc seems to be stable
and Perkoa is expected to be a low cost producer. The weak financial and
operating condition of the RAN could pose a potential problem as the
railway is the most economical means of transport4ng the expected 200,000
tons per annum of ore concentrate. The mining project's prefeasibility
study would assess the transportation facilities required, and IDA is
discussing with the Government possible assistance for rehabilitating the
RAN. Also political instability in the country could serve as a deterrent
to serious foreign investors. IDA's involvement in the project and Upper
Volta's professional approach to development of the Perkoa deposit should
reduce this risk. Last, there is an inherent risk involved when developing
a new sector in a country with minimal infrastructure and scarce
resources. The experience of the development of the Poura Gold deposit by
SOREMI is, however, promising in that respect.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and BUVOGMI, and the Recommendation provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions for the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. These include the following conditions:
of effectiveness:
(a) establishment of a Project Preparation Unit and
appointment of a mineral economist;
(b) appointment of exploration consultants; and
(c) opening of the Special Account.
of disbursement:
No reimbursement for Phase II expenditures prior to IDA's
approval of Plan of Action.



-22-
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI -- RECOIMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 2, 1984



-23-
T A B L E  3A                                            PAGE I
UPPER VOLTA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SAEET
UPPER VOLTA                               KEFEREN4CE GROUPS (WEIGiHTED AVERAGES) /a
HtOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT   b            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE; INCOME
19601/       1970k-  ESTIMAT'EI        AFKICA S. OF SAHAVRA       AFKICA S. OF SAHARA
AREA (TiEOUSAND SQ. Kf)
TOTAL                                   274.2        274.2        274.2
AGRICULTURAL                            119.9        122.4        125.6
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        60.0         90.0         240.0                254.6                      1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            5.0         14.0         33.0                 79.8                        724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    4164.0           5071.0       6325.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)             4.7          6.8         10.6                 19.5                         23.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                   10.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                     34.4
(                         YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            15.2         18.5         22.5                 29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                34.7          41.4         49.U                 94.1                        131.8
FOPULAI1ON AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                             42.8          43.9         44.8                 45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                             54.3          53.2         52.4                 52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                           2.9           2.9          2.d                  2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
EOTAL                                  l.9/c         2.0/c        2.0/c                2.6                          2.8
URBAN                                   5.7          5.7          6.0                  6.2                          5.3
CRUDE BIRrN RATE (PER THOUS)             48.6         48.0         47.8                 47.9                         47.6
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUS)             26.8         23.8         21.5                 19.2                         15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.2          3.2          3.2                  3.2                           3.2
FAMILY PLANSING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          101.0         102.0         97.0                 87.8                         95.7
PFR CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (3 OF REQUIREMENTS)          92.0          59.0         95.0                 88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              71.0          69.0         72.0                 51.2                         56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL A'D PULSE            19.0          L9.0         19.0/d               18.1                         17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              63.0         57.8         49.7                 25.7                         23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           37.2          40.3         44.1                 47.4                         51.9
INFANT HORT. RArE (PER THUUS)          252.3         235.0        208.1                126.5                        117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XYOP)
TOTAL                                    ..         12.0         25.0/e               24.7                         25.4
URBAN                                    ..         35.0         50.0/e               56.8                         70.5
RURAL                                    ..         10.0         23.771               18.3                         I2.3
ACCESS rO EXCRETA UISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          4.0          4.0/e               28.1
URBAN                                   ..          49.0         47.0/e               65.7
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                 21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             81650.0       87430.0      48510.0              27420.6                      12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               4090.0/f    3980.0         4950.0               3456.2                       2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1720.0        1580.0       1600.0/d             1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                                210.0/p       270.0        370.07Wd             380.6                       402.3
RUiRAL                              3090.07:    2440.0         2470.07d             3177.5                       3926.7
AUMISSIONS PER iiOSPITAL BLD               ..           ..
MtOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE uF ilOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   7.5/h         ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
IOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS ro ELECT. (N OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RU RAL                                   ..           ..
- - -- ---- - - - -- - - -- - -- - -- -- -- - - -- --- - - - - -- - -- -- - -- -- - - - - - - - - - ---- -- - - --- -__ _ ____-- - -_  - - - -- --- - - - - -- - -- - -- - -- - --_-__-_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -



-24-
T A B L E  3A                                           PAGE 2
UPPER VOLTA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b          'b  RECENT  /             LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
I96OAb       1970-1-_   ESTIMATE       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       8.0         12.0         19.0                 63.9                        97.2
MALE                      12.0         16.0         24.0                 73.6                       103.1
FEMALE                     5.0          9.0         14.0                 51.6                        88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       0.5          1.0          3.0                 12.5                        17.2
MALE                       1.0          2.0          4.0                 16.7                        23.5
FEMALE                     0.3          1.0          2.0                  8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             21.2         14.7         14.1                  7.3                          5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               47.0         44.0         54.0                 46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                             20.0         23.0         20.0                 25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  1.5/S        5.0/i        5.U/_               36.5                        37.1
CONIISUM P TIO N
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.4          1.3          2.0/k                3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.7         17.2         17.9                 45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.1          1.2          1.6                  2.2                        18.6
NiEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..          0.3          0.2                  4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          0.2          0.7                  1.0                         0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             2380.0       2779.0       3301.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      47.1         46.8         46.1                 34.5                        36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 92.0         87.0         82.0                 76.9                        56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     5.0          8.0         13.0                  9.8                        17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.2         54.8         52.2                 40.9                        37.0
MALE                                  60.8         58.8         56.4                 53.0                        47. 1
FEMALE                                53.5         50.9         48.0                 28.9                        27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9          0.9                  1.2                         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST SX OF hOUSEHOLDS                .             ..                                ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        164.0                165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..        105.0                 87.4                       255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                100.8                       491.5
RURAL                                   ..           *.         53.0                 64.6                       188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                 39.5                          ,,                        )
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                 69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1963; /g 1962;
/h 1964; /i 1972; /1 1974; /k 1978.
May 1983



-25-
ibato   boOtog   I  IaIt ta1 atat  t              1 oaaat  oto-l  Ia~d   oPt. -tt    ob  oo_t    .. IFatol,_   itIor.   lt    .          Too.a Io  lt  oa            FL00  looottol,,
oatpoobla  oaaoe 01  tto  ob  ofiiooaolOil Ocinittta a l tonooocoat   (2 n  I. tliton    oaao.tag.  it   tloitat lt.Ttdt   a.  ooolo,aoa   to
looobiotoi  i  aotodo  Ooiaotlolii  tt  ot  otaoootoioeoa  dttoooo  Oitoooatoat
1970tioe-o   otot  o   ItOt at   0000  t.o  iio  0)*1ooat   ai()tooll  t" tl)  atti    ltaoooaoOot ttoro    gopatOa
itootoocto(saai  tt tato  rooto  'ol tpotet' gat  aotatnii,a100009000  tto oOO.lalttat'  t Clt ttoaao 0  taOnitttno-aolttt
ottioilci .MT 10 iiiotota   ot   aaitttgsOt9aoata   e    toiltco   ooatta&    oito    t o.aoooi   tottlot   fteootitt 
ootittt9       ittgatattotatlrnr  ttona, O9aatoto   aloel   00a.tnoitloo   otalnoaotoato    00oortot
rettottara lnOaOt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~L,  hItF  I
MlO(hOta -d ao.ao.l                                                                              Qaootoaoi&aotyltonIolO0   tbo   ttaooa
~ttt   'tooi ooicootioc,, ott-toclndtaoon   lod   coo;0)0                                       hopttao        .IItP-1Ao  a -1laa   oattaoioololo
cod~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I 190li.                                                         noato   t  0000Oooo    oalotnioanl0   000   totaito
,aioooaIn       cott   i  si   lttlteaotOtottoly0   otioiyotoadteatgodaooa-t,aiilt   .Oo.a  ola a.caa
lao  toge  gatatottaiti cO ioo'at-galaettoliala              Ot, -ottIf__tmllltalto,                                  .
190  an  li? dta.ttolotoo   ltiloploO  ld -otnb.  oooo,andtonl -t-laitfoottoai
Lt- t- ~  ~     ~     ~     oin   olttl   illl0   tl  oapc a  n-htt  aopolbd
10   0   000(Ot-lI'00cliocttOt  1tnetoootalnaattlbao   olo 0;cot  onc   o  natlodOtti   o
oaloltod  y aet  ootoo tottoad  o lnd  ota  liti11129-01.btlilo                     anattelooot. loail  o   ottttttt   toool  ot
1900a 090. aol 000 loot                                                                     On0   oa    t   tyltt.to?ltato   tadttolotat   0010
1hill-   ~~~~~~~~~~-4 y..tao.o.tolonl                                     ..ot  .ta  ..a.. ......at, .old    nll  o
OttOOOotOttlOt.tO  Odttt     totlw ootn   ototltttttta                                         0010   000   0   anoot   ottaT00tntla   bO0     tt
toloty  otga7001to   -Loot - ttltanoonlgoo)aIo-   ola                                        otaio     bt,0300,olaain   tct-aantaaanotoo
an   ottoOoototooy   otlatt   t  ll)illo    aoopta-10O d--o   ltao tdoltalioo.Inioaooo p-00
090  bl,  o  :0  io.                                                                       ra,   ootot  nooo  da  nrolalaooa  htoltta  tOoo
190, IM,  ~         ~         ooloo laa   f ot  an.attadon   a   odoaalotott
toaO.roa  ls 000. 0000toO                                                               yctoioa  ao~lti to  oo  dd  ot  <baroal
!ao iooala,t7OoollaatO       t Odot0   90   lO   o   00                                     l olo   t   toOr ol-tbloora   l  lttaoaaio,,o
dota.                                                    ito OoooOoolo dtaadtd on noa rotitta at bodh,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
tyoo toatoto  (oooc, o  0001)- Otio00  ooa  t    -olt ...tltIoo
llttlooOIttoOtlta   t onon  tooo00)01000 ooocololoO  0  oto               p00aL
0000   tttoItilOoO  I dta oo  og  Oto                                           onototOla o  ltolano ponaoo o-Oottol-I   oat -a atr.o ,ot rra
_ZnOotnOattto-    oool  00  0   t    00   llOalotatooat  llgnatt
I     t  ooopctoeot,o,al  ntttnto   totooatatoeloo rotptoaotaaI0-a   and                                                                                , otl_ooaoooo
ta,laoooooloooooooaoatoaaotaogat'tooattoo                                        lpotro   ooatlti  olonototaooOlaooaonloa
00000   mott  totl  tolatal  tat0toloncootttatltlcO- a.t000a110,.oooltr.01000ttito-atto,ooooot
otoo000  1000toto  to0000  loo,' tatl  ato   -tI,ot  t-t tOO                 IoooI-
1,,  0000000  ttttolt -t-tl tO 'too  na  ot--obtotoot,   loon                                     , It.o.. Ioa   - oo.cl  tolol-ooOttl   ola00tn
ealgeoolto   OtoenclaOonlICololp    TtoaotoionooloOloaraoo.100   ptoo0oooa   loootaootoooola
LIplolOOe   atolto    ooettotb   totolh                             otoy o,a0oo-lteo0t   0oont0alto--ota1onao0a
Z, toto                                   Isooaoo.a.olottya    .00  aand oh  000- oEl-tao          oooo    doti  o   lttttlnnoo   ntoyooao                            o
lottI1ototote0lcft-ooe0Ol o0-ooo00a  000ao ooa,,looolotoaltoiay0I0  tl  0000
Oc  o-O.atoltat_. tol     otlolta  Lo   to-  -lla000   ad-ata   tolnO



-26-
ECONOMIC INDICATORS               ANNEX I / Page 4 of 5
GROSS NATIONAl. PRODUCT IN 1982                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GRONTH(Z, Constant 1970 Prices)
US$ Mln.ialb/  1                               1970-82    1970-76    1977-82
GNP at Market Prices                                         1,144.5      100.0                               3.5         3.5        3.-1
Gross Domestic Investment                                      158.2       13.8                               2.9       13.5        -3.6
Gross National Saving                                          -22.8       -2.0                              -1.4       12.1        19.2
Current Account Balance                                       -181.1      -15.8                               4.5        15.1      -16.5
Exports of Soods,NFS                                           151.9        13.3                              4.7         3.9        2.4
lmports Df Soods,NFS                                           403.8       35.3                               3.6        6.5        -5.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added lalbI                   Labor Force                  V.A. per Worker
US$ Iln.       X                      Mln.       X                    US t         I
Agriculture                                                    ql2.3       41.4                    7.7       51.8                  152.7       50.6
Industry & Mining                                              163.1       16.4                    0.4       13.0                 379.3       125.2
Services                                                       419.9       42.2                    0.2        5.2               2,470.2       819.0
Total/Average                                             995.4       100.0                   3 3      100.0                  301.6      100.O
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central  0overnaent
(CFAF Bin.l                                                         Z of GDP
1?79       1980C      1961       1982        1983 b/               i-79        1980       1981       1?82        1983 /b
Current Receipts                         38.8       41.9        45.2       4?.6       50. 3                  15.4       15.8        14.2       13.8       13.0
Current Expenditure  cL                  36.1        36.4       45.5          0           5.2                14.3        13. 7      14 .2      14. 8      14.3
Current Surplus                           27          5.5       -!.3        3. 4       -4.9                   1.1        2.1       -0.1        -0.9       -1.3
Capital Expenditure d/                    6.5        5.2         7.4        2.4        3.2                    2.6        2.0         2.3        0.7        0.8
Overall Balance                          -.8          Q.3       -7.7       -5.8        -8.1                  -1.5         0.1       -2.4       -1.6       -2.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                                   1979        '980       i?81       1582       1983 e/
(Bill)on CFA.F (utstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                                      46.3       .3.2        63.7       -2.2       ib.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)                                          -4.9       -6.9        -2.0       -2.1       -3.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                              56.8       59.9        63.2       72.7       75.3
lPercentages or Index Numbers!
Money & Quasi Money as X of GOP                                            18.4       20.0        19.9       20.i       19.8
I.plicit GDP Deflator  Y1970:=100I                                        212.7      234.0      257.4       283.7      306.4
,Annual PercentaQe Changes in:
DP Deflator                                                                 7.0       10.0        10.0       10.2        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                               -2.1      -40.8        71.0       -5.0      -47.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                               3.0                    5.5       1J5.        3.6
.a/ Esti2ates for 1?93 are currently unavailable.
6/ Provisiona!.
c  Net of arrears which are estimated as CFAF 2 billion ix 1982 and CFAF 10i billion in 1983.
d: Excludes externadly-financed inyestment expenditure.
e Monetary data tor 1983 as of Noveaber.
pril Id, 1994



r,.. i4b..
-27-                                                                -  ____
TRADE PAYMENTS ARD CAPITAL FLONS                       P.tp  5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS a/                                                                    MERCHANDISE EIPORTS IAVEMIE 1960-1912) /a/ it/
1980       1981 lb/  1982 ibl                                   US$ WIN.        I
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods,NFS                              211.5      159.0      151.9             Livestock PrDducts          38.0      29.5
leports of G6ods,NFS                              580.2      452.3      403.8             Cotton Lint                31.9       24.7
------ -------------                                        ------    ------              Oilseed Products            13.0       10.1
Resource Gap(Deiicit   -1                        -368.7    -293.3    -251.9               Other Goods                 464        35.8
Net Factor Income                                  97,3        77.7      53.3                        Total           129.9      100.0
of which:
MLIT Interest Paysents cl                       6.4        6.2        8.3            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECENBER 31, 1983
Net Transfers                                      39.0       23.2        17.7          …-----…-------------------------
Balance on Current Account                       -232.4    -192.4    -180.9                                                  U5$ Hl.
Official Grand Aid                                183.8    !28.8        109.6
Net Oificial MLT Borrowing c/                      65.5       71.1       78.8             Public Debt, incl. Umdisbursed    619.3
Disbursesent                                     74.4       79.1       93.2             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                                      B.9        8.0       14.4                                                 -------
Total Outstanding & Disbursed       404.5
Net Credit from iXF                                  1.9        1.8          0
Other Capital (net)  /d                            -4.1       -7.5      -17.5
Change ir. Reserves
increaSe I-1                                    -14.7       -1.8       10.0
-----------------------                           -----      -----      -----             DEBT SERVICE RATIO For 1912 If /
Fuel and Related Materials 
Itports                                                                                                                       ----
,i which: Petroleus                           53.5       44.2       48.7             Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed         14.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE aF EXCHANGE
----------------                                                                          IDA LENDING 'DECEMBER 31, 1983t
I47?: U    4.            F21  .   F                                                       --------------------------------
l?BO:  5$1.Di = 211.-  PFrF
1i81: US z1J- 27;.1 CF F                                                                                                     US  Mln.
IHU2: US$1.0101 -  28.6,  MAF
!?83: US$i.01   3g1;1 ;FAF                                                               Outstanding & Disbursed               124.4
--------------------------------   -                                                      Undisbursed                          109.8
!ai Estimates for 198i3 are currentlv unavailable.                                        Gutstanding incl. Undisbursed        234.2
Ibi Pr.oisi nal.
fc  From  18RD Debt Reportin-gSerices .DRS).
Jd! inciudes direct investment, short-term capitzl, errors and Omission,
and discrepancy betweent DRS and Goverrnent reported debt.
:ei Includes estimated unrecorded trade.
fl Ratio of MILT debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
Not Available
Apri! !8, !984



-28-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP' OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984)
Borrower: Republic of Upper Volta
(US$ Million) a/
(less cancellation)
Number     Year                  Purpose                  IDA      Undisbursed
Thirteen Credits fully disbursed                          71.2
557-UV    1975   Livestock Development                    5.0          0.18
744-UV    1977   Regional Railway                         5.2          0.04
759-UV    1977   Small & Medium Scale Enterprise          3.3          0.72
766-UV    1978   Urban Development                        8.2          2.88
956-UV    1979   Education II                            14.0          8.05
982-UV    1980   Forestry                                14.5         10.47
1013-UV    1980   Niena Dionkele Rice Development          6.5          4.36
* 1097-UV    1981   Second Bougouriba Agri. Dev.            16.0 b/       9.25 c/
1164-UV    1981   Fourth Highway                         46.0 Hi      31.87 c/
1218-lW    1982   Third Rural Development Fund            16.0 b/      12.67 c/
1235-UV    1982   Third Telecommunications                17.0 b=/     14.53 c/
1284-UV    1982   Volta Noire Agricultural Dev.            6.8 b/       5.99 c/
1285-UV    1982   Hauts-Bassins Agri. Dev.                 4.7 b/       4.10 c/
1293-UV    1982   Koudougou Agri. Pilot Dev.               7.0 b/       6.40 c/
TOTAL                                        241.40
of which has been repaid                    1.78
TOTAL now held by IDA a/                     239.62
TOTAL undisbursed                                         111.51
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year    Obligator    Type Business   Loan         Equity         Totals
1978    Sovoplas        Plastic          .41       .13            .54
a/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
b/ Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
c/ Computed at the 9/30/83 rate of $1 = S-DR 1.05684.
*   Beginning with Credit 1097-UV, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights.  The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and
the dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1984, for the undisbursed amounts.



-29-
ANNEX III
UPPER VOLTA
MINING EXPLORATION AND TECHNICAL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  Approximately 3 months
(b)  Project prepared by                Consultants and IDA
(c)  Identification Mission          :  October 1982
(d)  Appraisal Mission               : May 1983
(e)  Negotiations                    : March 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  October 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action: None
Section III. Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of a Project Preparation Unit and appointment of Mineral
economist acceptable to IDA, by BUVOGMI (para. 47)
(b) Appointment of exploration consultants for Perkoa (para. 53).
(c) Establishment by BUVOGMI of a Special Account at a local Bank
(para. 55).
B.   Other Conditions
(a) Terms of reference for legal assistance to be approved by IDA
(para. 48).
(b)  Government not to enter into agreement on Perkoa with third parties
before the end of Phase One (para. 50).
(c) BUVOGMI and IDA to agree on promotion strategy for Perkoa (para. 50).
(d) BUVOGMI to solicit investment proposals for Perkoa (para. 50).
(e) Prefeasibility report and draft contractual arrangements to be
submitted to IDA at the end of Phase One (para. 50).



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f)  Government and IDA to agree on Phase Two of the project at the end of
Phase One (para. 50).
(g) IDA reserves itself the right to cancel unused amount of Credit,
should the Government enter into an agreement with a third party on
Perkoa at the end of Phase One (para. 50).
(h)  BUVOGMI and IDA to exchange views at the time of preparation of the
feasibility study (para. 52).
(i) No reimbursement for expenditures shall be made in respect of Phase
Two unless the Association is satisfied with the Plan of Action
(para. 57).



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _IB RDIB 171743
5'  2'                                 -     -'                        1'  aA~~~~~~~~~~~niTA0j  !   SE~~~~~PTEMI~ER  0833
UPPER VOLTA                                          '                             /           TsnRlsgsso CP        -                                    k  MA A
PERKOA                                                                             _                                                                         A M     -L NIGER
MINING EXPLORATION AND                                                                                                          T- -.-
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                            ;f  C2I iebfd                                           /                                   Th
1  23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I~~~~                                             ~IEI
Mineral Deposits                                    K,A, j
o  JIBO                                                                         I
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                          -  -      T^, dG  5t A .y.U
¶2 r5  A f ;ufbA    f2A  \   !         A   L I                                                               Ag
OUAHIGOUYA                Soo) Aut om 2                    A      2
P1                                                                           .o  Bosaaet I,           J                !hak                                                                                                             s4g yt-i  Xv/i t p s .      ak'lnsc  c  opr
4265   23   CC  j      N# jP                                    Prcbian SD                                                                           Pb La
' j   _t          2 Gncm an essan c   M'mIi CmlxS    Atmn
Tli~~~R   DEOIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i    ad
*ILOAAET,Re                                                                                                                                                                       E~~~~ Rnae   ad  PiuYldScnoy   nemtetUeV Vndu
r~,,c,owmm"In                                                                        KvAluBOGAND~r                                   v
HAR
Cuf KOUDOl, Gou ~~                          ~,                                <.    3
.TI Reor2dsane, m -V       NOIneNA    t nl Bonar
12'                                                                                                                                      2     FADA N3CUEMA 2
-12-                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AnEDpmo
Af, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I
ENKODOGOV                           s'~
C                                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~P  ~ ZABRE/               PAM A~,            r
\'    TWa  PiOULASSOt>  7V-El  V.U                                                                                                                                  E Nj  y  INO  N
1>-                                                    [oSioc                2522,no,n;    ~~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  H AN A  TO0   GO0
I 4              ~~~~~~GEOLOGY                                         )MINERALES
BNRA          ISCtnetloral/                                                                                                                          Ag   Silver
~~  /  Mn Au                   Cu ~~~~~~~  V    v:i4  Onapoanlie~,.y.,k, Arailio--u  Sno~t and Arg  .. anun, So-dsro-                      A I     axie
/              SokpuraDienereS.                                     Precabria  A                                                                        Au   Gold
4   I   I     OAOVA   59A  ""        7      ~    ~~~~~~~~ Sandsrono ura Sandston  Snist with Lentic-lar Limeton                       Cu   Cemet Limtone
4   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~53                                       32                                      n  utPeaosnC                                                                                                Ce Mg  DoIinmiti L_neton
15 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3o ~~~~~~~~~~~Tarkhooi,, Pane                                                                                                        Co   Copper,v
30    ~~'-  B    r-""                  "*~~~~          """~~'  I Argillanen- or ArgIlan-osSondy Metase.dments                                         D    Diamod
->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Volco c Sod-ments iTsf.~ Plow, and Assciated Sedimets                                                              Me   Manganes
'-'s8/Ji1  ~~~~~            '" "'2'      p'~~~~'~~m:o'~Neats-l to BascMeaocaie  Snecal Perrgraphin Unit                                   Ni   Niclsel
I V  0  R Y           C  0  A S T                    ~4vj   Uridi fferet ated Gsonooir tes ond Tona lites                                                          P   Phasphaten
I       Preconsuron C~~1                                                                    Pb   Lead
Gneir  aro  nonic-Migmotilin Compleo                                                Sb   Artmonism-
ORE DEPOSITS                                                                                                                                   Si   Sands
0    In Eaplo totion                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved Roaon                                                              Ti   Titaium-
o    Snartly in Eaploitatio                                    J,pav..d Rad0, (Nationa, Pr-moy and Seconoarvl All Weather  so.                      Fe  Iron
E..oalvted                                      -------  Unpa-d Roads jPrimay sia Senoduryl  nte-oirrat Use                                      V    Vandi-
In, E-alotio-"'--    Rairnads                                                                                                                 Zn,  Znn



