CREDIT NUMBER 1482 UV
Development Credit Agreement
(Perkoa Mining Exploration
and Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   C          ,1984


﻿CREDIT NJMBER 1482 UV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              C  2A          , 1984, between
the REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA   hereinafter called the Borrower or
Upper Volta) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B)  the Project will be carried out by BUVOGMI (as herein-
after defined) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to BUVOGMI the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
BUVOGMI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1,02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BUVOGMI" means Bureau Voltaique de la G6ologie et des
Mines created and operating under the Borrower's Decrees No.


﻿- 2 -
78-165/PRES/MCDIM, No. 78-166/PRES/MCDIM and No. 78-167/PRES/
MCDIM, all dated May 17, 1978.
(b) "BUVOGMI Legislation" means collectively the Borrower's
Decrees No. 78-165/PRES/MCDIM, No. 78-166/PRES/MCDIM, No. 78-167/
PRES/MCDIM, all dated May 17, 1978, as amended from time to time.
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BUVOGMI of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prep-
aration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated April 8, 1983 and April 27,
1983 between the Borrower and the Association.
(e) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement.
(f)  "Project Preparation Unit" means the Unit established
within BUVOGMI pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly   after  the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit


﻿- 3 -
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account,
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1, commencing September 1, 1994, and ending March
1, 2034, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BUVOGMI to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
BUVOGMI to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to BUVOGMI as a grant.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) BUVOGMI shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-


﻿tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
BUVOGMI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c) BUVOGMI Legislation shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materily and
adversely the ability of BUVOGMI to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BUVOGMI or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4,02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Borrower
to the Association and BUVOGMI; and
(b) any event in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01
hereof shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the Pffectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Project Preparation Unit, with, among its staff,
the mineral economist referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement, has been established pursuant to Section 3.04 of the
Project Agreement;
(b) the exploration consultants referred to in Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement have been employed as provided in such
Section; and
(c) the Special Account has been opened pursuant to Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5,02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by BUVOGMI, and is legally
binding upon BUVOGMI in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 1, 1984 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date seven
(7) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFINANCE                          5256
Ouagadougou                         MIFICOM
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By   5       0   0a
t horized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
et/ Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Mining works              2,000,000         90%
under Part C (1)
(2) Equipment                   680,000          100%
(3) Materials and
supplies
(a) for Parts A            470,000          100%
and B of the
Project
(b) for Part C             240,000          100%
of the Project
(4) Consultants
(a) for Parts A          2,300,000          100%
and B of the
Project
(b) for Part C             800,000         100%
of the Project
(5) Refunding of                 80,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                                of this Agreement
(6) Initial deposit             330,000         Amount due under
to the Special                              Section 2.02 of
Account                                    the Project
Agreement


﻿- 9 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Unallocated                100,000
TOTAL              7,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbused on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 500,000,
may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of expenditures
made before that date but after April 1, 1984; and (b) expendi-
tures under Categories (1), (3) (b) and (4) (b) unless the Asso-
ciation is satisfied with the plan of action prepared under
Section 2.05 (b) of the Project Agreement for carrying out Part C
of the Project.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall.,


﻿- 10 -
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide: (i) a complete
technical and economic evaluation of the sulfide zinc-silver
deposit at Perkoa which is located in the province of Bourkina
in Upper Volta, in order to attract potential investors; (ii)
legal assistance to BUVOGMI in connection with future contractual
arrangements for the exploitation of the Perkoa deposit; and
(iii) assistance to BUVOGMI to strengthen its capacity to
evaluate mining deposits and promote such deposits to potential
investors. To that end, the Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:
(1) Detailed drilling and delineation of the Perkoa deposit
and neighboring areas.
(2) Geochemical   and geophysical   surveys  of   the Perkoa
deposit area.
(3) Preparation   of  an   ore  reserve  and  prefeasibility
report.
Part B:
(1) Establishment of a mineral-dressing unit and strength-
ening of BUVOGMI's Project Preparation Unit to enable
it to (i) monitor the progress of a development project
at Perkoa, and (ii) evaluate and promote the develop-
ment of mining deposits in Upper Volta by, inter alia,
the publication, if deemed appropriate, of a general
description of the mining sector for the benefit of
potential investors.
(2) Review of mining legislation, mining concession agree-
ments, tax legislation applicable to mining operations
and the Borrower's Investment Code, and preparation of
model agreements and draft contracts for the Perkoa
mining development to be entered into between BUVOGMI
and potential investors.


﻿- 12 -
(3) Promotion of the Perkoa deposit to potential investors,
including the preparation of an investment prospectus
required therefor.
Part C:
(1) Construction of ramp for access to the deposit, under-
ground   drilling  and  bulk   sampling   of  ore   for
metallurgical testing.
(2) Preparation of a feasibility study for the development
of the Perkoa deposit.
Part D:
Acquisition and utilization of equipment to carry out Parts
A (1) and (2), B (1) and C (1) above.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1987.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expienditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed oit of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such depo-
sit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (4),
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
Categories (1) through (4) for the Project, minus the amount of
any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any special commitment entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount
of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (4) for the Proj-
ect shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, be made only after and to the extent the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or


﻿- 15 -
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


