CREDIT NUMBER 1482 UV
Project Agreement
(Perkoa Mining Exploration and
Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATInN
and
BUREAU VOLTAIQUE DE LA GEOLOGIE ET DES MINES
Dated            L, 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1482 UV
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             44&             , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and BUREAU VOLTAIQUE DE LA GEOLOGIE ET DES MINES
(hereinafter called BUVOGMI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Upper Volta (hereinafter called
the Borrower or Upper Volta) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BUVOGMI
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BUVOGMI on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BUVOGMI, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE If
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BUVOGMI declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out the
Project described in said Schedule to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿- 2 -
with  appropriate   administrative,  financial, engineering    and
mining practices.
Section 2.02. BUVOGMI shall, for the purposes of the Proj-
ect, open and thereafter maintain in CFAF a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist BUVOGMI in carrying
out the Project, BUVOGMI shall employ the following consultants
and specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, such consultants and specialists to be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August i981:
(i) Exploration consultants for Part A of the Project;
(ii) a mineral economist within the Project Prepara-
tion Unit to be established under Section 3.04 of
this Agreement; and
(iii) a   legal  consultant under Part B      (2) of  the
Project, by February 28, 1985.
(b) BUVOGMI shall, by October 31, 1984, submit the terms of
reference for the legal consultant under Part B (2) of the Proj-
ect, to the Association for its review and approval.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) BUVOGMI shall, not later than two months
after completion of Part A of the Project, submit to the Associa-
tion for its review and comnents the final prefeasibility report
prepared thereunder.
(b) BUVOGMI shall, promptly upon receipt of the Associa-
tion's comments, but in any case not later than three months


﻿- 3 -
thereafter, prepare a plan of action satisfactory to the Assoc:a-
tion for carrying out Part C of the Project (taking Into accoext
the Association's comments) and shall, thereafter, cacry out such
plan of action.
(c) BUVOGMI shall: (i) by June 30, 1985 prepare and submit
to the Association for its approval a promotion strategy (to in-
clude an investment prospectus pertaining to the Perkoa deposit)
directed towards mining companies active in the zinc-concentrates
and metal markets; (ii) promptly upon receipt of the Associa-
tion's approval, solicit proposals from at least three (3) such
mining companies for the development of the said deposit; (iii)
promptly upon the receipt     any such proposal, submit it to the
Association for its review and comments; and (iv) promptly upon
receipt of the Association's comments, take all appropriate
action to follow up on any such proposal.
Section 2.06. BUVOGMI shall consult with, and give due
consideration to the views expressed by, the Association during
the preparation of the feasibility study under Part C (2) of the
Project.
Section 2.07. (a) BUVOGMI shall, not later than two months
after completion of the model agreements and draft contracts
under Part B (2) of the Project, submit them to the Association
for its review and approval.
(b) BUVOGMI, prior to entering into any agreement with
potential investors pertaining to the Perkoa deposit, shall: (i)
complete Part A of the Project; (ii) prepare, under Part B (2) of
the Project, model agreements and draft contracts satisfactory to
the Association; and (iii) ensure that the economic and technical
terms and conditions of such agreement are acceptable to the
Association.
Section 2.08. (a) BUVOGMI undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by BUVOGMI to replace or repair
such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) BUVOGMI shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) BUVOGMI shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon   their  preparation, the   plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) BUVOGMI shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by BUVOGMI of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds. of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BUVOGMI and
the Association, BUVOGMI shall prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by BUVOGMI and the Asso-
ciation of their respective obligations under the Project Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) BUVOGMI shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,


﻿- 5 -
property and equipment of BUVOGMI and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.10. (a) BUVOGMI shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) BUVOGMI shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BUVOGMI of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BUVOGI
Section 3.01. BUVOGMI shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finan-
cial, and mining practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. BUVOGMI shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and mining practices.
Section 3.03. BUVOGMI shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. BUVOGMI shall establish and thereafter main-
tain a Project Preparation Unit, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association which shall provide, inter alia,
that such unit shall include the mineral economist employed under
Section 2.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. BUVOGMI shall establish and thereafter main-
tain a mineral-dressing unit as provided for in Part B (1) of the
Project with equipment and staffing acceptable to the Associa-
tion.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BUVOGMI shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices its operations and financial condi-
tion, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b) BUVOGMI shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. BUVOGMI shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements, including
the separate accounts, (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided;
(c) BUVOGMI shall: (i) have the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of


﻿- 7 -
each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such
year so audited, and (B) a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning such accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request; and
(d) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts including the Special Account, financial
statements, records and expenditures, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BUVOGMI thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date seven years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BUVOGMI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BUVOGMI:
P.O. Box 601
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Telex:
5340 Upper Volta
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BUVOGMI may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as BUVOGMI shall
designate in writing, and BUVOGMI shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 9 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RC 4/    Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BUREAU VOLTAIQUE DE LA GEOLOGIE ET
DES MINES
quthorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits", published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, BUVOGMI shall prepare and for-
ward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. BUVOGMI shall provide the neces-
sary information to update such notice annually so long as any
goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, - the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Upper


﻿- 11 -
Volta may be granted a margin of prefe:ence in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Upper
Volta if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Upper Volta equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each-
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and othar import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 12 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, BUVOGMI may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
BUVOGMI and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by BUVOGMI,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts  for  vehicles  and  office  equipment under
Part D of the Project may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, under procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Drilling equipment to be acquired for Parts A and C
of the Project shall, for the purpose of standardizing with
BUVOGMI's existing drilling equipment, be purchased directly from
the original manufacturer of such equipment.


﻿- 13 -
3.   Contracts for laboratory equipment under Part A of the
Project may be awarded through limited international procedures
on the basis of evaluations and comparisons of bids invited from
a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in para-
graph A.3 of this Schedule and in Part A of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 1.2 and 3.9 thereof).
4.   Contracts for supplies and materials under the Project
may be awarded through local shopping procedures satisfactory to
the Association, provided, however that the cost of goods to be
so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $850,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BUVOGMI shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the  Association's   concurrence  before  it  is  issued   to  the
prospective bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, BUVOGMI
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
BUVOGMI and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.


﻿- 14
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), BUVOGMI shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BUVOGMI and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, BUVOGMI shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform BUVOGMI and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   1 L-     day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


