Document of
The World Bank-   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2416-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMWENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEWNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EMECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
December 5, 1978
This doe_meo ha a restridted distribution and may be used by recipits only in the performance of
their elRil datks. lb etents may not otherwise be disclosed without Waid Dank aubtrization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)         =    US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                   =    LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)         =    US$1.70
1 US Dollar                   =    LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)         =    US$1.56
1 US Dollar                        LE O.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)         =    US$1.47
1 US Dollar                   =    LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)         =    US$1.43
1 US Dollar                   =    LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
List of Abbreviations
ADF        African Development Fund
MOAG       Ministry of Agriculture
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOHE       Ministry of Higher Education
MOIMR      Ministry of Industry and
Mineral Resources
MOMVT      Ministry of Manpower and
Vocational Training
MORNC      Ministry of Reconstruction
and New Communities
MOSA       Ministry of Social Affairs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Education
Ministry of Higher Education
Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
Ministry of Manpower and Vocational Training
Ministry of Reconstruction and New Communities
Ministry of Social Affairs
Aim Shams University
Amount:              US$40.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:        The project would continue and expand the efforts under
IDA's ongoing Education Project. It is designed to help:
(i) Increase the supply of qualified skilled workers,
technicians and managers;
(ii) Improve quality and relevance of preparatory and
secondary education;
(iii) Increase and upgrade training of primary, secondary
and technical teachers;
(iv) Institutionalize population education in the formal
system; and
(v) Improve education and manpower planning and research.
To this end, the project would include construction/recon-
struction of buildings and provision of furniture, equip-
ment and technical assistance, as required, for 54 tech-
nical and vocational training institutions, 21 preparatory
and secondary schools, 17 teacher training institutions,
the Faculty of Education of the University and three
departments of the Ministry of Education. The project
would produce urgently needed manpower for the industrial,
agricultural, construction and handicraft trades; assist
in essential reforms and expansion of the formal education
system; contribute to the national objective of population
growth restraint; and strengthen educational institutions
and policies. The construction and handicraft vocational
training programs would cater to the special needs of the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
urban poor, including adult illiterates and school drop-
outs. Despite its size and complexity, the project is
believed not to face a more than average risk, chiefly
because of the good performance of the main implementa-
tion agencies under the ongoing Education Project.
Estimated Cost:                                                 US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
1.   Civil Works and Architect's                     12.4       6.7      19.1
Fees
2.   Furniture and Equipment                          5.4      34.1      39.5
3.   Technical Assistance                             1.0       3.7       4.7
4.   Contingencies
(i)  Physical                                    1.8      4.3       6.1
(ii)  Price                                       6.0       9.8     15.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              26.6      58.6     85.2
Financing Plan:                                                 US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                               -      40.0      40.0
African Development Fund                          -        8.9       8.9
UK                                                -        1.0       1.0
Government                                      26.6       8.7     35.3
Total                                           26.6      58.6     85.2
Estimated
Disbursements                                                 US$ Million
IDA FY    1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual                                    23.0      7.2      8.2      1.6
Cumulative                                23.0    30.2    38.4    40.0
Rate of Return:      Not quantifiable
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2112-EGT of November 28, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF E(,YPT
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of $40
million on standard IDA terms to help finance the foreign exchange costs of a
Second Education Project. An amount of $2.58 million out of the proceeds of
the IDA credit would be made available to Ain Shams University. In parallel
to the IDA credit, the African Development Fund has approved a loan of $8.89
million equivalent and the United Kingdom a grant of $1 million equivalent
for the project. The terms of the African Development Fund loan would be
identical to those of IDA credits. The combined grant element of the foreign
financing for the project, using a 10 percent discount rate, would be 84
percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been distributed to the Executive Directors in six volumes. The report
was based on the findings of a basic economic mission which visited Egypt in
May/June 1976, as updated by a series of missions, the latest of which took
place in January 1978. A report on Recent Economic Development and External
Capital Requirements (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for the June 14-16 meeting of
the Consultative Group, was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
1/   Apart from paragraph 14, which has been updated, the text of Part I of
this report is identical to that of the President's Report No. P-2364 EGT
for the Second Population Project, distributed to the Executive Directors
on September 21, 1978.



of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities.
Real GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisages (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises; (ii) liberalization of the private sector; (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment; and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
towards restructuring the economy. In particular, steps have been taken to
remove some of the restrictions on private business activities, to decentralize
public enterprise management, to encourage foreign private investment, to
expand foreign exchange transactions outside the official rate, and to loosen
many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are linked to the major
weaknesses of the economy: the rapid increase in the population, slow growth
in agriculture, the large deficit in the balance of payments, the low level of
government savings. and low efficiency in the public sector.
6.        In November 1976, following elections to the People's Assembly,
which were the first in which a choice of candidates representing diverse
political views was offered to the voters, a new government was formed which
included a team of economic ministers headed by a Deputy Prime Minister.
President Sadat directed that economic questions should be in the forefront
of the new Cabinet's tasks. This team succeeded in considerably strengthening
Egypt's economic management and financial position. The position of Deputy
Prime Minister for Financial and Economic Affairs was eliminated in a minor
Cabinet reshuffle in May 1978. The other members of the economic team remain.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.  Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from 3.2 percent in 1974, to 9.8 percent in 1975, and 6.1 percent in
1976. The growth rate in 1977 is not yet available, but preliminary indica-
tions are that it was high. The more rapid growth after 1974 is attributed
largely to the recovery of industrial activity through the provision of
greater aid-financed inputs, increased petroleum production and construction
(particularly in the Canal Zone), and growth of trade and services.
8.        Investment.  Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from



- 3 -
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973 to
$2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable replen-
ishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 197:3 period.
During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign resources,
investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).
9.        Income Distribution.  It is estimated that in 1974/75, the lowest
40 percent of the household income distribution in both rural and urban areas
accounted for about 16 percent of income originating in the respective sector.
The income distribution per person was more egalitarian, with the distribution
in rural areas being somewhat more equitable than its urban counterpart, but
at a lower average income level. In the rural areas, those in the lowest 40
percent of the personal income distribution accounted for about 25 percent of
total incomes in that sector, compared with about 21 percent for the urban
areas; however, the average annual income in the rural areas was about $166,
while in urban areas it was $327.
10.       Public Finance.  Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation;
for example in 1976, tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Total public reve-
nues reached 41 percent of GNP, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low
per capita income.
11.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,415 1/ million (about
10 percent of GNP) in 1976, as the Government endeavored to protect consumers
from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other essential
commodities. Exact data on defense spending are not available, since a large
portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign financed--the
Emergency Fund.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 19 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 44 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 26 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
rise in 1976 at 10 percent, but the actual rate was probably much higher.
Indications are that the rate of inflation in 1977 remained high.
13.       Balance of Payments.  Despite an increase in the value of commodity
exports from $1,003 million to $1,612 million between 1973 and 1976, export
earnings fell well short of imports, which rose from $1,664 million to $4,214
million. Indeed the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.



- 4 -
to increases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. The
imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by fast-growing
earnings from services and from workers' remittances; the latter rose from
$205 million in 1974 to $757 million 1/ in 1976. Nevertheless, the overall
deficit on the trade and services account reached $1,518 million in 1976,
increasing from $654 million in 1973.
14.       Balance of Payments estimates for 1977 are still provisional.  The
indications are that imports will be about $4.5 billion, while exports are
put at around $2.0 billion. A surplus of $1.2 billion is expected on the
services account (where the main contributor is workers remittances); the
current account deficit is thus estimated at about $1.3 billion.
15.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1973-1977
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1973 and 1974 the deficit was also
met by substantial short-term borrowing, including the use of banking facili-
ties. The Government has taken action in 1977 to drastically reduce reliance
on such financing (see also paragraph 29).
Development Problems and Prospects
16.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities into which they are
channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the growth of
consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastruc-
ture (particularly ports, power, transport and telecommunications); (iii)
greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on completing
ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of prices
(including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move towards
increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented and
employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial capacity
more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and encourag-
ing small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb the
growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan.  The first year of the Plan was approved by the Parliament in
January, followed by approval of the entire Plan in June 1978.
17.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
1/   Including the financing for "own exchange" imports.



- 5 -
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply
the growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to con-
tinue to rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in
about 1980--there is then likely to be a substantial increase; (iii) pros-
pects for oil production, which are put at one million barrels a day by 1982,
substantially exceed domestic requirements; (iv) considerably increased
earnings from tourism--these reached an estimated $398 million in 1976; and
(v) an increasing flow of remittances ($757 million in 1976) from Egyptians
working abroad. 1/
18.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take at least 5-10 years to achieve
a significant restructuring of the economy.
19.       Recent Policy Actions.  Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing
excess consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the
parallel exchange market has been successively widened to comprise all exports
except raw cotton, rice and petroleum and Suez Canal revenues, and all imports
except basic mass consumption commodities; (ii) the parallel market rate it-
self was further depreciated to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii)
the attractiveness of the parallel market was increased by establishing a list
of items which may be imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv)
parallel market imports were valued for customs duties at the parallel market
exchange rate (a measure equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the
tariff on applicable imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed
and interest rates increased; (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised
rigid control over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced
by "higher councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual
enterprises; and (vii) in April 1977 the IMF approved a Stand-by arrangement
for an amount of SDR 125 million (about $145 million) over a 12-month period.
In July 1978, the IMF approved a Government request for an arrangement under
the IMF's extended facility which would permit Egypt to make purchases from
the IMF over the next three years in a total amount equivalent to SDR 600
million (about $750 million).
20.       The Five-Year Plan (1978-82).  The 1978-82 Plan advocates a high
growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive and supported by
1/   A substantial amount of remittances ($399 million in 1976) came in the
form of "own-exchange" imports, i.e. commodities financed by Egyptians
working abroad, and hence not involving a transfer of foreign exchange
from Egypt.



- 6 -
increasing income from petroleum, the Suez Canal, and remittances from
Egyptians working abroad. In the context of the "open-door policy", the
domestic and foreign private sectors are expected to play an increasing role
in the development effort, although the public sector will retain its dominant
position.
21.       Real output is projected to grow at 12 percent per annum.  This is
based both on a high level of investment and increased efficiency. The invest-
ment ratio is expected to increase from 20 percent in 1976 to 28 percent in
1982, and the incremental capital-output ratio is expected to average 2.5
during the Plan period.
22.       The Plan's investment allocations give primary emphasis to infra-
structure and industry. Thus, more than 50 percent of public investment is
designated for the various components of infrastructure, and around 30 per-
cent for industry and petroleum. Agriculture and irrigation are allocated
only 8.6 percent.
23.       The Five-Year Plan will be implemented through the mechanism of
Annual Plans, which will take account of the actual circumstances prevailing
at the time and modify the targets and the strategy in an appropriate manner.
The first such Annual Plan--that for 1978--has been approved. It aims at
a lower growth rate than implied by the 1978-82 Plan, and adopts a more
optimal strategy by allocating nearly 90 percent of investment to completing
or rehabilitating existing projects. However, the main targets of the Five-
Year Plan--for investment, growth, and the marginal rate of savings--remain
ambitious, and will probably require continued modification by subsequent
Annual Plans.
External Assistance
24.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
25.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services
account have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and
deposits with the Central Bank of Egypt. Commitments of Western medium-
and long-term (M&LT) capital assistance began to grow after October 1973,
but because of the slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, actual
transfers became substantial only from 1976.
26.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$200 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.



-7-
27.       Consultative Group.  In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan, and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group
was held in Paris on May 11 and 12, 1977. At the meeting, the major aid-
giving countries and institutions discussed the most important problems
confronting the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and
its needs for external assistance. The delegates recognized that the struc-
tural changes undertaken by the Government would take a number of years to
complete. They felt that the Government was taking energetic steps towards
accelerating growth and expressed their support of the Government's statement
on its development strategy and of its efforts to direct future development
within the framework of an integrated plan. A second meeting of the Consulta-
tive Group was held in Paris from June 14 to 16, 1978. Estimates of the aid
requirements for 1978 are given in the report on Recent Economic Developments
and External Capital Requirements (No. 2071-EGT) referred to in paragraph 2
above. The indications are that if Egypt succeeds in implementing a substan-
tial development effort in 1978 and continues to reduce the use of banking
facilities, it will require gross external inflow in the neighborhood of $3.3
billion. Because of the already reduced use of banking facilities and the
greater effort expected from Egypt to mobilize its own foreign exchange
resources (e.g. through the use of development bonds) it is likely that the
cash aid requirements will decrease. However, commodity aid requirements will
remain important, both to meet the balance of payments gap and to generate
domestic resources.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1977 was estimated at about $8 billion as compared with
$5,858 million at December 31, 1976. A large part of this increase repre-
sented the replacing of short-term (180 days) banking facilities, which had
led to serious liquidity problem, with loans of maturity of 10 years of more.
Of the total of about $8 billion, medium and long-term loans amounted to
$5,458 million (of which $730 million was in clearing currencies), medium- and
long-term deposits with the Central Bank to $1,938 million, and suppliers
credits to $640 million. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, fol-
lowed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt
comprised about 3 percent of the total debt disbursed and outstanding. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $897 million
in 1976, giving a debt service ratio of 25 percent. 1/ No reliable estimates
of military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain
rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
29.       Commercial bankers' credit facilities outstanding at Decernber 31,
1977 were $1,131 million of which $556 million were disbursed as comnpared to
$2,123 million, of which $1,396 million were disbursed at December 31, 1976.
1/   Ratio of amortization and interest on medium- and long-term (M and LT)
debt to foreign exchange earnings.



This type of external indebtedness created severe liquidity problems for Egypt
in 1976 when payments arrears were building up. These increased substan-
tially during the first half of 1977 but by the beginning of September 1977
had all been cleared through receipt of $1,075 million under a cash loan from
the Gulf Organization for Development of Egypt (GODE) and the mobilization of
additional foreign exchange resources by Egypt, 1/ specifically $200 million
in 5-7 year Development Bonds.
30.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph
19 above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's
economic situation and international environment. The situation however,
requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's request,
the Bank has arranged to continue reviewing developments in the economy by
economic missions three or four times a year.
31.        If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, the deficit on current account is estimated at about $2-2.4 billion
per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital inflows are
large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt would have the
debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited
amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing medium-and long-term debt as
a percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated at 25 percent in
1976 and is expected to decline to 16 percent in 1980. It is then expected to
rise again to about 20 percent in 1983, before starting to decline to about 17
percent in 1986. In these circumstances Egypt may be considered creditworthy
for a limited amount of Bank lending in addition to the IDA assistance which
Egypt merits on the ground of its poverty and difficult balance of payments
position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
32.       This proposed development credit would be the World Bank's thirty-
eighth lending operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments
made since 1970 to $1,173 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of October 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
33.       Given Egypt's basic structural problems:  pressure of population on
resources; lacking economic infrastructure; a large public sector constrained
by administrative fragmentation and a network of controls over investment,
production, distribution and prices; the rehabilitation needs of the economy;
significant balance of payments deficits and pressing demands for finding
resources, the Bank's response has been tailored to address, in a very broad
1/   The remaining tranche of $650 million from GODE was diverted largely into
financing the import of an agreed list of commodities. By December 31,
1977 approximately $150 million had been disbursed.



- 9 -
fashion and in close cooperation with other donors, these long-term develop-
mental issues. The necessary breadth of the Bank's contribution to Egypt has
dictated a strategy which involves entry into the whole spectrum of sectors
with a view to provide not only direct finance with the relatively limited
resources that the Bank/IDA can make available but, equally, to act as a
catalyst for other financing agencies, both bilateral and multilateral, and
as a spur for initiating discussion and, hopefully, positive action on a
coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach must also include delivery of technical
assistance not only for adequate implementation of specific investment pro-
grams but for developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate
and implement future policies and programs. The Bank's deliberately broad
multisectoral intervention has been differentiated by sectors and by the pace
at which the Egyptian authorities can address these issues.
34.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector receiv-
ing the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention, illus-
trates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. It is the one sector
which has the capacity for creating employment opportunities which can meet
the demands of Egypt's growing population and limited agricultural land.
However, this sector is beset by a complex constellation of problems which
stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and lack of management
autonomy, the distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives. Efforts under
our projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity
utilization (Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456)
and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort--embodied in these projects--has been
directed at introducing policy and structural improvements through initiating
six subsector studies in areas such as textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, which would
provide the foundations for formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals. To complement these efforts in basic industries the Bank has also
carried out a study on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis
for Egyptian and our efforts in this area.
35.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth
of our intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that we have adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the
Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with that the
Egyptian Government wants us to play but is welcomed by the various bilateral
and multilateral donors as an appropriate function, which the Bank as the
Chairman of the Consultative Group, should fulfill. Preparation of projects
for future lending follows this strategy. A tourism project, a development
finance project, a second textiles project, a power generation project, and a
natural gas distribution project have been appraised. A pipeline of projects
for possible future lending is also being developed, including furthner projects
in water supply and sewerage, education, power, rural and urban dev,elopment,
transportation, agriculture (including drainage) and agro-industry, development
finance and industry.



- 10 -
36.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1977 to represent less than
4 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1 percent
and 2 percent, respectively at the end of 1977. For the future, the Bank and
IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 4 and 2.5 percent respectively in 1980.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3.5 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service pay-
ments due on Egypt's external debt.
37.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978. IFC is also discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR 1/
Sector Organization
38.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Ministry of Higher Educa-
tion (MORE) have the main responsibility for education and training. MOE is
responsible for primary, preparatory, secondary general and secondary tech-
nical education and for primary teacher training. MOHE is responsible for
secondary technician training. The universities are fully independent. They
are governed by the Supreme Council for Universities which provides a central
secretariat, disseminates information and otherwise has only advisory func-
tions. The universities themselves are responsible for the admission of
students and hiring of faculty. While vocational training and technical
education is provided by MOE and MOHE, other ministries such as Agriculture
(MOA), Reconstruction and New Communities (MORNC), Industry and Mineral
Resources (MOIMR), Manpower and Vocational Training (MOMVT), and Social
Affairs (MOSA) have training programs also. Arrangements for coordination of
the different educational and training programs are adequate (para. 43).
Sector Strategy
39.       Egypt's considerable economic potential rests to a great extent
on its large and proficient population (para. 17). However, to realize this
potential and to enable the majority of the people to participate effectively
in the country's economic and social development, substantial improvements of
the education and training system are required. The Government's educational
development strategy is directed to improve the quality of all types and
levels of education and to increase dramatically the quantity of trained
manpower. Major education policy objectives for the 1978-87 period are:
1/   Educational data in this part vary slightly from those in Annex I which
are less up-to-date. Annex I will be amended in due course.



- 11 -
(a) universal enrollment of the 6-14 age group by 1985 in the
nine-year compulsory cycle, with in-service and pre-service
training programs to produce the quantity and improve the
quality of teachers required to attain this objective;
(b) the provision of practical pre-vocational studies for all
students in preparatory and general secondary schools to
improve the quality and relevance of the education programs
at these levels, and to assist the students to develop
healthier attitudes towards manual work and to prepare them
to make more informed choices concerning further education/
training and future employment;
(c) improving adult literacy, mainly through universal primary
enrollments (thereby eliminating the source of adult illiter-
acy) while exploring cost effective ways of adult literacy
training;
(d) restructuring and re-orienting education and training to
meet manpower needs better through increasing technical
secondary enrollments at an annual rate of about 9 percent
while restricting the increases in general secondary to
about 4 percent during the 1978-82 Plan period; and
(e) expanding and improving the skilled and semi-skilled labor
force by increasing the quantity and quality of the annual
outputs of industrial, construction, and handicraft skills
training centers to meet the serious shortage of such workers.
Recent Developments
40.       Progress in the overall development of the education and training
system is commendable in view of the country's scarce resources. Enrollments
in primary, preparatory, secondary and higher education have increased 13
percent, 69 percent, 48 percent and 55 percent respectively since 1971, and
in 1977 stood at 76 percent, 56 percent, 34 percent and 12 percent of the
relative age groups. Female enrollments, however, are still low, comprising
40 percent, 36 percent, 36 percent and 31 percent respectively of classes in
the four levels of education. Secondary education is well diversified; 49
percent of the enrollments are in technical courses, but only one-fourth of
these are in sorely needed industrial courses. Technician training enrollment
increased from about 16,000 in 1971 to about 36,000 in 1977, but is still very
inadequate to satisfy the economy's needs for technicians. Similarly, the
1977 enrollments of 16,330, 11,000 and 3,500 respectively in comparatively
new industrial, building, and handicraft skills training programs are substan-
tially below manpower requirements in these fields. IDA's assistance for the
sector started with the education project being financed under Credit 681 of
March 7, 1977 (para. 47).



- 12 -
Educational Issues
41.       The Government places strong emphasis upon the role of basic educa-
tion (poicy objectives (a) and (c) above) in economic and social development.
However, in view of the present level of enrollments in the primary and
preparatory grades, the 1985 goal of universal enrollments in grades 1-9 will
be difficult to achieve, especially for females. A repetition rate of 30
percent in the final year of each level and a steady annual dropout rate of 3
percent further complicate the problem. The Government is concerned about
these repetition and dropout rates and, through its efforts to raise standards
of instructions, is taking positive steps to improve them. However, these
efforts are hindered by inadequate facilities and equipment, a shortage of
qualified teachers and insufficient budgets. In 1976, the adult literacy rate
was only 44 percent (40 percent in 1974) and, despite the 1970 law requiring
various ministries to organize adult literacy programs, little progress has
been made. Government has initiated several pilot schemes for adult literacy
training (including the one under this project) and, pending development of
cost effective training methods, relies mainly on increased enrollments in
grades 1 through 9 to reduce illiteracy over time.
42.       One of the most critical issues facing educational planning authori-
ties is that of restructuring and improving the curricula (policy objectives
(b) and (d) above) to make the system more relevant to the country's manpower
needs.  Both the preparatory cycle and general secondary curricula are exces-
sively university oriented, and their generally poor equipment and housing
cause an overly theoretical approach. The poorly equipped and inadequately
staffed secondary industrial schools and post-secondary technician training
institutes have been unable to attract sufficient numbers of vocationally
motivated students. At the university level, enrollments are inflated
(410,000 in 1977), and unbalanced in favor of liberal arts and law, partly
because Government employment is guaranteed to all graduates. The Government
is, however, fully aware of the problem and is studying changes in the employ-
ment policies for university graduates as part of its plans for administrative
reform. In practice, the number of graduates relying on the Government for
employment has already started to decline, both as a result of the long wait-
ing times involved and of increased opportunities in the private sector.
43.        In recognition of urgently needed improvements in educational
research and planning, the MOE has requested assistance in these areas under
the project (para. 64). Coordination of planning for educational programs
requires prompt and continuing attention, especially in the more costly tech-
nician training programs under the MOE and the MOHE, and in such university
programs as engineering, medicine and others where annual outputs are greatly
in excess of demands. Close coordination of plans to expand skills training
programs will also be required by the MOE, the MOIMR and the MORNC so that
unnecessary duplications will be avoided.  In awareness of these needs, the
Government has created under the ongoing Education Project an interministerial
committee to facilitate the coordination of programming and translation of
manpower needs data into appropriate education and training targets. Top
policy matters are being dealt with by the Higher Council on Manpower and
Vocational Training which was established by presidential decree in late 1976.



- 13 -
To refine and expand the existing data base and to ensure continuing avail-
ability of dependable data for the planning of manpower training in the
future, the Government, with technical assistance from the Bank, is strength-
ening its data analysis capability through the establishment of a mechanism
for computerized assessments of manpower requirements and supply. Addition-
ally, by 1980, the Bank's study on labor migration throughout the Middle East
is expected to provide Egypt (and the other countries in the Region) with
reliable figures for planning purposes, including for manpower planning.
Manpower Needs
44.       While much needs to be done in the above areas, manpower data
clearly show that training of technicians, skilled and semi-skilled workers
(policy objective (e) above) has highest priority. The annual output of about
4,600 industrial technicians (including about 900 from institutions under the
ongoing Education project) will supply less than a quarter of the average
annual domestic requirements during the 1978-82 period. Moreover, unless
additional steps can be taken soon, the planned annual output of about 8,000
in 1987 (including 2,600 from institutions under the ongoing project and 1,400
under this project) will supply only about a third of the average annual
domestic requirements during the 1983-87 period. As a consequence, many of
the universities' 6,000 annual engineering graduates will continue to fill
technician positions in industry, but the major portion of annual technician
needs will continue to be met through on-the-job training, an undesirable
situation for this level of training and such large numbers.
45.       With the assistance of the first IDA education project, the annual
supply and demand of skilled construction workers will be brought into balance
in 1980, and the additional 6,000 annual output in the proposed project will
maintain the balance through the 1983-87 period. However, the situation in
regard to skilled industrial workers is critical.  The projected annual oulput
of about 32,000 (including about 2,300 from institutions under II)A's first
project) during the 1978-82 and 38,000 (including additional 3,200 from insti-
tutions under this project) in the 1983-87 periods will supply less than one-
third of the estimated respective annual domestic demands during these periods.
Significant shortages of trained manpower also exist in other fields, includ-
ing agriculture and the handicraft industries, but comprehensive figures are
presently not available.
Educational Finance
46.       Enrollments are projected to increase during the 1978-82 period by
46 percent in the schooling and training system, by 32 percent in higher edu-
cation and by about 25 percent in non-formal skills training. Consequently,
total public expenditures on education are estimated to represent 5.5 percent
of the projected GDP by 1985-86, as compared to 5.9 percent of GD)P in 1976.
However, if GDP should grow at only 7 percent instead of 9 percent annual rate
assumed by the Government, then total education expenditures would represent
6.6 percent of GDP, which is a comparatively high share, and a reduction of
education expenditures may become necessary. In this event, the quantitative



- 14 -
targets could still be met, but the qualitative ones, such as reduced student-
teacher ratios, more adequate consumable supplies and better maintenance of
facilities would not likely be fully achieved.
Ongoing Education Project (Cr. 681)
47.       IDA's ongoing education project supports the Government's objectives
for improving the formal education system and increasing the supply of qual-
ified manpower in key sectors of the economy. The project covers programs of
four different ministries (MOE, MOHE, MOIMR and MORNC) and provides for
equipment, furniture, and technical assistance for 47 institutions with
combined enrollments of 35,600.  It is designed to:  expand and improve the
training of industrial agricultural and commercial technicians, skilled and
semi-skilled workers for construction and industry, and technical teachers;
provide instruction in practical courses at preparatory and secondary levels
through the introduction, on a pilot basis, of diversified schools; and
improve education and manpower planning. The project was believed to entail
considerable risks because of: the large number of institutions involved;
the complexity of the technical assistance program, which is crucial for all
other project components; the difficult policy and planning issues that were
addressed; and the unfamiliarity of the executing agencies with IDA proce-
dures. However, these risks did not materialize. The performance of the
Ministries concerned is generally very good and project implementation is
proceeding well. Progress towards the project's institutional objectives for
improved educational and manpower planning is significant (para. 43), and all
but two of the 47 institutions are expected to open on schedule. Start of
construction of two technician training institutes under MOHE was delayed
because of technical problems requiring new designs. Completion of these two
institutes is expected to take two years longer than originally scheduled.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The project was prepared by the Government largely through pre-
investment studies included in the first education project and assisted by
an IDA mission in October 1977. Appraisal took place in March-April 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington in October 1978. The Egyptian delega-
tion was headed by Mr. Samir Koraiem of the Ministry of Economy. It included
representatives of the Ministries of Education, Higher Education, Industry and
Mineral Resources, Reconstruction and New Communities, and Social Affairs and
Ain Shams University. Throughout the processing of the project, close contact
was kept with the African Development Fund and the United Kingdom's Overseas
Development Mlinistry who agreed to co-finance the project. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report, Second Education Project, Arab Republic of Egypt,"
(No. 2112-EGT) dated November 28, 1978 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet, Annex III, and a map
showing the location of project institutions are attached to this report.
Project Objectives
49.       The project would continue and expand on the efforts under IDA's
ongoing Education Project. It would be fully consistent with the Government's



- 15 -
educational development strategy and address clearly identified needs. Its
key objectives would be to: (a) expand, diversify and upgrade the training
of technicians and skilled and semi-skilled workers to meet urgent manpower
needs; (b) assist in improving the relevance and quality of lower and upper
secondary education through provision of diversified practical training to
all students; (c) increase and upgrade the training of primary, secondary
and technical teachers and instructors; (d) improve educational and manpower
research and planning; (e) increase and upgrade management training in the
industrial and construction sectors; (f) expand and improve population issues
education; and (g) expand education and training opportunities for the urban
poor.
Project Description and Special Features
50.       In support of the above objectives, the project would provide build-
ings, furniture, equipment, and technical assistance, as required, for 92
education and training institutions under the Ministries of Education (MOE),
Higher Education (MORE), Industry and Mineral Resources (MOIMR), Reconstruc-
tion and New Communities (MORNC) and Social Affairs (MOSA); for the faculty
of Education of Ain Shams University; and for studies and programs of the
Planning, Research, and Population Education Departments of MOE and the
Ministry of Manpower and Vocational Training (MOMVT). Fifty-eight: institu-
tions to benefit from the project and the faculty of Education are existing
and 34 institutions would be new ones. Twenty-four (construction trades and
handicraft) training centers would be located in urban areas all over the
country, and their programs would cater to the special training needs of the
urban poor, including adult illiterates and school dropouts. The special
features of the different project components are as follows:
(i) Technician Training Schools (MOE)
51.        Six existing three-year technical trade schools would be converted
into five-year technician training schools (Grades 10-14). About one-third
of the instructional time would be allocated to laboratory/workshop practice
to achieve a proper balance of theory and practice. These schools would
produce about 1,100 technicians annually by 1985 in the specializations of
ship building, petroleum, petro-chemical, electrical, electronics, mechanical,
automotive and diesel, farm power and machinery, land reclamation and agricul-
tural production.
(ii) Agriculture Secondary Schools (MOE)
52.       Four existing agricultural secondary schools would be improved and,
on a pilot basis, be paired with cooperating farmer training centers, with the
effect of both better practical training of the secondary school students and
better classroom and workshop activities of the adult farmer training program.
Annual output would be about 830 secondary school graduates and 200 adult
farmers.



- 16 -
(iii) Technician Training Institute (MOHE)
53.       A new two-year post-secondary technician training institute (Grades
13-14) would be built which would have an annual output by 1984 of about 720
(45 percent women) in the automotive, electricity, machinist, civil construc-
tion, agricultural power and machinery, and business technologies. The insti-
tute would be located in the industrially and agriculturally oriented Delta
Region, which would facilitate the maintenance of close contacts necessary for
continuing relevance of instructional programs and graduate placement.
(iv) Vocational Training Centers -- Industrial Trades (MOIMR)
54.       Six existing industrial vocational training centers would be rehab-
ilitated and five new centers would be set up. The eleven centers would have
a full time equivalent enrollment capacity of 6,040 (12 percent women) and an
annual output of about 3,230 skilled and semi-skilled craftsmen in the tex-
tiles, electric, chemical, metal and printing trades. The textiles training
would directly benefit the Bank's ongoing (Ln. 1292) and proposed textiles
projects.
55.       An industrial management training center with a capacity of 20
trainees would be operated within an existing vocational training center.
The center would provide modern planning and management training for about
200 trainees per year from among the supervisory and management personnel of
industrial companies in the Suez Canal and Red Sea Governorates.
(v) Vocational Training Centers -- Construction Trades (MORNC)
56.       Twenty new construction trades vocational training centers and six
mobile training units would be established. Construction of two of the
centers was anticipated in the recently approved Urban Development Project
(Cr. 831). The centers would have an annual output of about 6,000 skilled and
semi-skilled workers from ten-month courses with 90 percent of the training
time in practical work. While there are no formal education entrance require-
ments, trainees normally would be literate, at least 15 years of age and come
mainly from the urban poor. However, on a pilot program basis, 25 percent
of the training places (75) in each of five centers would be allotted to
illiterates of above age 15 who would receive three months of literacy and
numeracy training prior to entry into skills training and an additional one
hour per day concurrently with skills training. The training programs of the
mobile units would be more flexible in terms of length to reflect local needs
and desires and would have an annual output of about 540 from four-month
training courses.
57.       A construction management training center would be set up and pro-
vide training in modern construction planning and management for about 200
trainees per year selected by industry from among existing construction super-
visors and management personnel.



- 17 -
(vi) Vocational Training Centers - Handicraft Skills (MOSA)
58.       Four existing skills training centers and one existing instructor
training center would be modernized to provide training in handicraft skills
to out-of-school boys and girls of ages 12-16 who would not otherwise have
access to such training and to prepare them for gainful employment. The
centers are located in the poorer urban areas and would be operated by the
MOSA in cooperation with the local governorates. The four skills centers would
have a maximum total enrollment of 770 (50 percent girls) in 1-3 year training
programs according to individual trainee ability and needs; the annual output
would be 500. Skills training specializations would be alabaster art works,
decorative metal art works, decorative iron works, decorative leather works,
weaving, knitting, sewing and ceramics, but could vary slightly as a result of
differing local needs. The instructor training center would have an enrollment
capacity of 192 skills trainees and/or full-time instructor trainees and in-
service training courses of varying lengths for experienced instructors.
(vii) Preparatory and Secondary Diversified Schools (MOE)
59.        Seventeen existing preparatory and four secondary schools would be
converted into diversified schools. The preparatory schools would have an
enrollment capacity of 20,880 (46 percent girls), are dispersed throughout
the country, and include four hours per week for all students in two of the
practical areas of home economics, agricultural, industrial crafts, handi-
crafts and elementary commercial studies. The objectives of the curricula are
to assure that those leaving the formal school system would be readily train-
able with the basic skills helpful in further vocational or on-the-job train-
ing programs; and those continuing on with secondary education would have the
skills and understandings necessary for a more informed choice in types of
secondary education. The four secondary diversified schools would have a
combined enrollment of 3,120 (58 percent girls) and would be equipped with
appropriate workshop and laboratory equipment to make possible the addition of
practical studies for all students. The curriculum would include, for each of
the three years, four hours per week of practical studies in either commercial,
industrial, agricultural or home economics. As a result, it is expected that
a significantly greater proportion of graduates would choose to enroll in
post-secondary technician training institutions or accept jobs in commerce or
industry.
(viii) Primary Teacher Training Schools (MOE)
60.       Fifteen existing primary teacher training schools and atLtached pri-
mary schools, with a combined enrollment of 11,400 (40 percent women) and an
annual output of about 2,280, would be upgraded. The curricula and syllabi
of the five-year course (Grades 10-14) have been satisfactorily revised to
reflect the proper balance of: general studies and practical activities;
basic and applied pedagogics; and demonstration and practice teaching in
primary and preparatory schools. Elements of remedial teaching, counselling,
and population education have been integrated into the syllabi, and new text--
books have been developed. Among the specialized programs during the last
two years would be the preparation of practical subjects teachers for primary



- 18 -
schools (Grades 4-6). The teacher training schools would also expand evening
class instruction (18-20 hours per week for two years) for upgrading of un-
qualified primary and preparatory teachers, most of whom are graduates of
technical and industrial secondary schools.
(ix) Faculty of Education (Ain Shams University)
61.       The training of math and science teachers for secondary schools
by the Faculty of Education of Ain Shams University would be upgraded. The
program would have an enrollment capacity of about 4,000 with an estimated
annual output of 800 or about 30 percent of estimated total annual maths and
science teacher needs in 1985. To prevent overcrowding of classes, the
university would give an assurance that student density in laboratory classes
will not exceed 40 students per laboratory and that it will provide qualified
instructional personnel in adequate numbers to maintain agreed upon student-
teacher ratios (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.02 (a) (ii)).
(x) Technical Teacher Training School (MOE)
62.       An existing architectural technical school would be converted
into a five-year (Grades 10-14) technical teacher training school to prepare
teachers for the architectural sections of the three-year secondary technical
schools and for the practical studies of the preparatory and general secondary
schools. The school would have an enrollment of 750 and would graduate its
first annual class of about 120 instructors in 1985.
(xi) Population Issues Education (MOE)
63.       To help improve living conditions, national development plans are
renewing emphasis upon population and family planning. IDA is associated with
these efforts through two population projects (Cr. 437 and Cr. 850). Under
this project, population issues education would be institutionalized within the
curricula of the formal educational system. Specifically, the project (through
provision of equipment and technical assistance) would assist in: (a) prepar-
ing and printing instructional materials for all levels; (b) developing the
methodology of presentation; (c) conducting training courses for teachers at
pre-service primary and secondary teacher training levels, and in-service
training programs at the local governorate level for existing teachers; (d)
orientation for supervisors and administrators; and (e) institutional develop-
ment at the central ministerial level.
(xii) Educational Research and Planning (MOE)
64.       To improve the Ministry of Education's research capability, espe-
cially in the area of curriculum development, and to strengthen its education
planning activities, 18 staff members of the two departments concerned would
receive training at appropriate institutions abroad under the project.



- 19 -
(xiii) Manpower Training Study (MOMVT)
65.       As a corollary to the manpower study being completed by the Govern-
ment (para. 43), the project would include studies to determine the vocational
training needs of school dropouts and to inventory the training faciLities
available.
(xiv) Pre-Investment Studies
66.       The pre-investment studies would consist of architectural designs,
curricula development and preparation of furniture and&'v&iipment lists as
required for 97 technical and vocational training institutions and for the
second phase of the population issues education program (which could include
family planning education) for financing under future IDA education projects.
Technical Assistance
67.       As the project's expected contribution to institution building
would be of equal importance with the improved qualitative and quantitative
outputs of the institutions, a substantial technical assistance component
would be required. About 71 consultants (of which perhaps 7 or 8 would be
local) would be employed by the six ministries for a total of about 21 man-
years to assist in equipment use and maintenance training; teacher training
methodology; population education; artisan skills upgrading; industrial and
construction management traini-ng; curriculum development; and the manpower
training study. Additionally, fellowships for about 147 man-years of teach-
ing, administrative and artisan internships or formal studies would be pro-
vided for about 319 selected faculty and staff of the 92 project institutions,
the university and the planning, research and population education departments
of MOE.
68.       The number of consultants and fellowships is large, but compatible
with the number of project institutions, the number of new programs introduced
under the project, and the desired upgrading of key personnel responsible for
existing programs and for the management of the project institutions. Because
of its size, the technical assistance program will require considerable skill
in its management and timely recruitment of consultants and placement of
fellowship recipients in appropriate institutions abroad. Consequerntly, the
Government and the university have given assurances that not later than May 1,
1979 and May 31, 1979, respectively, qualified educational training institu-
tions will be contracted to provide both the required consultants and fellow-
ship training included in the proposed technical assistance program (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a) and draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.02). Further, the Government has given an assurance that all school
directors and senior instructors to be sent abroad for internship training
would be sent sufficiently early for them to return at least six months prior
to opening dates of schools to enable them to participate in a two-rmonth
training program for laboratory/workshop instructors in the use and main-
tenance of the new instructional equipment (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 3.02(b)).



- 20 -
Project Cost and Financing
69.       Total project cost is estimated at US$85.2 million of which US$58.6
million (69 per_ent) would be in foreign exchange. These estimates assume
that all civil works contracts would be awarded to local firms, all equipment
would be directly imported, and about 50 percent of furniture contracts would
be awarded to foreign suppliers. In line with recent experience, the cost
estimate of the technical assistance program is based on average costs per
man-month of $6,250 for experts and $1,500 for fellowships of which 80 percent
would be in foreign exchange, and on average travel costs of $1,000 per indi-
vidual.  The project would be exempt from payment of taxes and customs duties.
The proposed IDA credit of $40 million would meet the full foreign exchange
cost of furniture, equipment and technical assistance except for (i) furniture
and equipment for 5 new vocational training centers and equipment for 3 exist-
ing centers for the industrial trades (under MOIMR) and (ii) part of the
advisory services and fellowships for MOE and MOHE. The African Development
Fund (ADF) has approved financing (i) above under a parallel credit of $8.89
million equivalent and the United Kingdom (UK) to provide technical assistance
inputs of about $1.0 million under (ii) above on a parallel grant basis. The
terms of the ADF credit would be identical to those of IDA credits. The
Government would contribute $35.3 million to the project to meet the foreign
cost of building and rehabilitation works ($8.6 million), the residual foreign
cost of equipment for institutions financed by the ADF ($0.1 million) and all
local costs. The Government would make $2.58 million of the IDA credit
available to Ain Shams University, to carry out its part of the project.
Conclusion of an arrangement to this end between Government and University,
satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(draft Development Credit Agreement, (Section 6.01(b)). The UK grant agree-
ment is to be signed in December 1978 and would become effective with the
signing of IDA's Development Credit Agreement. The ADF appraised its loan for
the project in October 1978; negotiations and Board approval took place in
November 1978. Signing of the ADF loan is expected for early January 1979.
All project schools meet priority needs but are largely independent from each
other and a delay in the implementation of some of them would not adversely
affect progress on and subsequently use of others. There is therefore no need
for making the effectiveness of the ADF loan a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed IDA credit. Moreover, this avoids any risk that some possible
delay in the processing of effectiveness of the ADF loan could critically
delay the much larger number of IDA-financed schools.



- 21 -
Estimated Cost              Source of Finance
Local   Foreign   Total   IDA   ADF   UK    GOVT.
--------------------US$ Million---------------------
Civil Works and
Architect's fees              12.4       6.7     19.1    -       -     -      19.1
Furniture and Equipment          5.4      34.1      39.5   27.5  6.5    -        5.5
Technical Assistance             1.0       3.7       4.7    2.9   -    (.9       0.9
Contingencies
(i) Physical                   1.8      4.3       6.1    2.9  0.6   0.0       2.6
(ii) Price                      6.0      9.8      15.8    6.7  1.8   0.1       7.2
Total                26.6      58.6      85.2   40.0  8.9   [.0    35.3
Project Implementation
70.       Apart from the planning for educational programs and research studies
which provide inputs into Government's comprehensive educational development
strategy (para. 43), the Project's components are largely independent from
each other and special arrangements such as centralized project management to
ensure concerted implementation are not required. The existing project imple-
mentation units in the MOE, MOHE, MOIMR and MORNC which are responsible for
execution of the ongoing education project have been effective and would also
be in charge of the respective components of this second project. The Ministry
of Education has appropriately strengthened its implementation unit by the
addition of three high level education officers, to assume responsibility for
the large number of non-technical schools, a procurement specialist and an
architect. The MOSA and Ain Shams University have set up similar units for
their components. Each nominated a project director in time to participate in
credit negotiations and appointed such support staff as required for efficient
project implementation. Government and Ain Shams University plan to implement
the project in accordance with detailed schedules which were discussed with
IDA and which provide for a well coordinated phasing of construction works,
procurement of furniture and equipment, and technical assistance services so
that the project institutions will be ready for classes on the target dates.
The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1983.
Procurement and Disbursements
71.       Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equipment to be
financed from the proceeds of the IDA credit would be presented to the Asso-
ciation for review and approval prior to procurement. Equipment and furni-
ture items would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Contracts for equipment and furniture in excess of
US$50,000 would be awarded in accordance with the Association's guidelines for



- 22 -
ICB. Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the above
figure or items of a specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical,
would be procured under competitive bidding procedures of the Government,
acceptable to the Association and would include to the extent possible, quota-
tions from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. Items which must be
compatible with other equipment procured under ICB would be procured under
negotiated contracts, acceptable to the Association. The total value of
equipment and furniture or specialized items so procured would not exceed
US$3.7 million equivalent which would represent about 10 percent of the
estimated cost of equipment and furniture, including contingency allowances,
to be financed under the credit. For the purpose of comparing foreign and
local bids under ICB, local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties
applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of CIF price, whichever is
lower. ADF financed project items would be procured in accordance with the
rules and procedures of that institution. All civil works will be Government
financed and would be awarded under Government procedures which are satis-
factory.
72.       Disbursements under the IDA credit would be on the basis of:  (i)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported furniture and equipment;
(ii) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured
furniture and equipment; (iii) 75 percent of local expenditures for off-the-
shelf procurement; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for fellowships
and expatriate consultants; and (v) 80 percent of local expenditures for
local consultants. The latter percentage would be equivalent to the portion
of total cost of expatriate consultants to be financed under the credit.
Disbursements are estimated as follows:
IDA FY                                      1981       1982       1983       1984
-------------$ millions-----------
Annual                                      23.0        7.2        8.2        1.6
Cumulative      _                           23.0       30.2       38.4       40.0
Recurrent Cost of Project
73.       Government's recurrent expenditures on education (para. 46) are
projected to increase from about $455 million equivalent in 1977 to about $690
million equivalent in 1983. When fully operational, the recurrent costs of
the project institutions are estimated to comprise about 2.7 percent of total
recurrent expenditures on education, but as most of the institutions are
existing ones, a major portion of this expenditure would occur regardless
of the project. The incremental recurrent cost of the project would be about
$9.6 million equivalent representing 1.4 percent of the projected recurrent
expenditures in 1983 or 4.1 percent of the projected increase in recurrent
expenditures in 1983 over 1977. Because of the high priority of the project
and the Government's strong commitment to it, the Government can be expected
to meet these expenditures.



- 23 -
Monitoring of Educational Programs
74.       To ensure that the instructional programs of the technician training
schools (para. 51) and institute (para. 53) will continue to be relevant to
the needs of business and industry, the Government has provided an assurance
that advisory committees, comprising representatives of business, industry and
Government, will be formed in each school by the opening date of classes; a
follow-up system to trace graduate placement and performance will be developed
by the time the first classes graduate (in 1984 and 1985 respectively) and
thereafter be applied annually (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.02(b)).  In o.-der to evaluate the effect of the diversified curricula in the
preparatory and secondary schools (para. 59) on the graduates' career paths
and to assess its success in relation to existing general programs, the Gov-
ernment has given an assurance that a study to compare choice of further
studies and job placement of graduates of the preparatory and secondary diver-
sified schools under this project and the ongoing education project with that
of control schools' graduates in the same cities will be developed by the
time the first classes graduate and thereafter carried out annually (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02(a)). These comparative studies,
being more comprehensive, would replace the tracer systems required for the
preparatory and secondary schools under the ongoing project.
Benefits and Risks
75.       Achievement of Egypt's economic and social development objectives
for the medium- and long-term depends upon the education system's ability to
increase dramatically the stock of trained technicians and skilled labor and
to raise the general educational level of the people. Like IDA's ongoing
education project, this second project would help to adjust the education
system to meet this challenge.
76.       The project institutions' annual output of 1,940 technicians and
3,230 skilled industrial workers would significantly ease severe manpower
shortages which are a bottleneck for industrial development; the training in
the construction trades would annually provide 6,540 underpriviledged urban
poor with the means to improve their economic position and would keep the
sector's labor market in balance in the early 1980's; the training of 500
urban school dropouts per year in handicraft skills would give a new impetus
to this traditional and labor intensive industry which has recently been
stagnating because of lack of skillea craftsmen; and the training of 830
agricultural secondary school graduates and 200 farmers per year would make
a start in upgrading the sector's manpower which is a co-requisite to other
modernization and expansion efforts. The annual training of 400 industrial
and construction managers under the project would complement the above tech-
nical and vocational training for these important sectors. Substantial
female participation is expected in advanced technical education and in
vocational training in handicraft skills and some of the industrial trades.
77.       Expansion and improvement of primary education would be assisted
through teacher training. The efforts of the first project for raising
standards of preparatory and secondary education and increasing its relevance



- 24 -
to manpower needs would be extended through teacher training and introduction
of practical studies for all students in additional schools. Girls would
represent a major portion of the students in the preparatory and secondary
schools as well as in the teacher training schools. Population issues educa-
tion at all levels of the formal system would make an important age group
aware of population issues and thus contribute to the national objective of
population growth restraint. The project's technical assistance for educa-
tional research, planning and management, the monitoring systems for secondary
and technical schools, and the preinvestment studies for future expansion of
the vocational and technical training system would continue the institution
building measures started under the first education project.
78.       The degree of risk inherent in a project of this size and complexity
would normally be significant. However, if the good experience under IDA's
first education project is taken into account, this risk would not seem to be
more than average. The project implementation time is relatively short and an
extensive IDA supervision effort is envisaged for the early stages. The tech-
nical assistance program is large, and efficient management will be required
to ensure timely recruitment of specialists and placement of fellowship
trainees in appropriate institutions abroad. The risk of mismanagement of
this program would be reduced by the Government's agreement to use contracts
with educational institutions as was successfully done under the first project.
These precautions and the past good performance of the four ministries in
charge of the major components, hold out considerable promise that the second
project would be carried out within the anticipated limits of time and cost.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and Ain Shams University, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
80.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
81.       A special condition of effectiveness is the conclusion of an
arrangement, under which Government would make $2.58 million of the proceeds
of the proposed credit available to Ain Shams University (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 5, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) La
TOTAL           1001.4                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      29.9                                  HOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /C   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  100.0        IbO.O      310.0          1438.5       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      298.0        275.0     405.0            816.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         25.8         33.3      39.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0          42.1      44.6             45.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KK.                        26.0         33.0      39.0             23.2        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0        1125.0    1311.0            112.4       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.0         42.1      40.7             46.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.0         54.7      55.9             50.6        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          3.2       3.4              3.3         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          2.6       2.2              2.9         2.4          2.7
URBAN                               6.0          3.6       3.6              5.0         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.5         42.1      37.8             45.0        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.7         17.0       14.0            13.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8 |f       3.0        3.0              3.4        2.9          3.2
FAMI LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        206.0     184.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MAURIED WOMEN)    ..           9.0      21.1              14.7       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              93.5        100.0     100.0            107.1        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                    95.0        106.0     113.0             99.2        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           66.0         66.0      70.7             63.4        50.0         56.8
OF WHICN ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0 /       16.0      16.0             16.4        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      39.3           ..         ..              ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.9          49.9       52.4            53.7        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           109.0        116.0      100.0             77.7      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      74.8             59.1        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                                     87.7             85.9        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      63.7             38.0        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                                      64.3        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            94.5        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                                                      27.7         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2500.0 /h   1910.0    1820.0 /i         4271.6    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2730.0 /h   1640.0 /i 1520.0 /7         2077.4      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             500.0 /h    460.0       460.0           580.2      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                          290.0      250.0           310.0       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 ..      2110.0    2090.0               ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..             22.0        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.0           ..        5.2              5.4        5.2
URBAN                               4.8           ..       5.0               *.         4.8
RURAL                                                       5.5                         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOm
TOTAL                               1.9           ..        1.8
URBAN                                1.6          ..         ..              1.8 168                 2.3
RURAL                                                                                                2 '.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.0           ..       45.7             40.3       25.9         28.3
URBAN                              37.8           ..       77.0
RURAL                                                      19.6             12.2         ..         10.3



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EGYPT
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /      1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP je
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         69.0      72.0             80.8        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                52.0        53.0       55.0             61.8       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0         33.0      40.0             23.6        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                9.0         21.0       28.0             18.2        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 22.0          19.0      18.0              6.7         6.6          7.4
PF1PIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0      40.0             31.5        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          16.0         25.0      29.0             22.3        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        20.0           ..       40.0             50.1       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.0       6.0              14.5        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         58.0        132.0     140'.0           125.8        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9         16.0      17.0             34.5         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        22.0         ,,             17.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           2.0         ..              1.6        1.4          1.6
EMHPLYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7800.0 /1   8300.0 /k 9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3          7.2       7.6              9.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              57.0 LI      53.0 /k   43.9             42.0        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2         18.8        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9        28.0       28.0             26.9       39.8         37.8
MALE                                  53.2        51.5       51.3             46.6       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                4.2          4.1        4.3              5.3       19.6         20.9
ECONCMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8         1.8        1.8              1.9        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.2 /1         *-      21.0 /m            *-        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  48.4 /1         ..      46.0  ..                     45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.6 /l         ..       5.2 /m            ..         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   14.1 /1         ..      16.0 /m            ..        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     154.0               ..        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..     112.0            142.0        71.9        97.9
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     122.0            236.1       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      60.0            144.7        42.0        87.3
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      22.0             21.5        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      30.0             37.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group.  Coverage of countriea among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;  /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capica, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  /R  1960-62;   /h  1962;   /i  Registered, not all
practicing in the country; /1 Relates to persons six years and over, excluding nomad population;
/k Relates to 12-64 years of age, 1966; /1 1964-65; /m rural only.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
N= : The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and thi nlet
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. lue to lace of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exportera and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and po-erty arc
simple pepulation-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and r             Pool - Fopulation {tot&i,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective nunmber of hespstal lies
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area uaed temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialiced h-ipitcl -d r-:
or permanently for crops, pasturen, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments per-mo tnI-   stfl-
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments provid,ng priocipuLL    -, - ,
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, inc- oId           - .. :  *    .
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal ceniters not permanently staffed by a physicnac (bht by   -i dcl-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acco-do icn  ard
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total num ber of adm:-ssions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Average sioe of household (persons per household) - total  urbar._ard rur..l_
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who share une  '.irtzt*
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purpeses.  Statistical definitions of bouse-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban. and rural - A-erogeon-
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rura. occupied ccnveottcoa
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non--perma-net  trr-rt--rs  -tH
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - tof_al_ urbao,_an_drural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarterc  as pemcentgoe
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectiveiy.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.           -                                                         Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment-1
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary chcco.-ae.
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-Ll years but adjeorled f-r
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for coc-tries with universal rd-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    catino   enrollment may exceed 100 perect since acne pupils are heltw ci
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Cooputed as above. -,
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved prtlmcy ir-:
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training issrrctisr Ic
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corcespeodonce courses iJe   renrra
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of seccodary) - Vocational  -ntctutvs  lv-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs ,hih operateed   -tr
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Totol stoie -:s et-s
planning program.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachee
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         spo-ding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (abie to rend and we             r
devices to all married women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 y-ers and over.
FOOD AND NU'TRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger eca.
capita annual production of all food comodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hbor-e   :n
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of ree......... 
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thoacond of -poplatios; -i lude-
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registratifo  of racia so-  no
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mctost -tries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for bi-adrast tc geser.i
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers L cour
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets  eas in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows tho average   ecu a--
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodi-' ruti:
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general cews.  it
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a .eek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on trhe -r -            Lia,-
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cIr  ona ar'- tob.c
23 grans of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Ec--ontom lly active porsoec   i            ,
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but escluding housewives, st,d-cto  .-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                              tions in varioss countries are mat comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of tota] lohbor frc-e,
HEALTH                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestrv, h-Ling as'd   inf
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, consoract-ic, -noufaccurcof  -02
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total laber  crce-
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (Percent) - total, male, and frci<e - r;-_    -
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                               leoale labor force as percentages if their respo-riv  p-,-   : --
Acces  to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                  Th.se ore ItO's adjusted poerfoipa tiao  -te- 'It!r,,  a 
Numesr of people (total,  rban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    structrre of the pspulation. ad  ope-  tIme oreed.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio  of popilalist coder 1" a.t
uncootaninated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of  l5-6f'  earn.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not mere                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kird)  rn.. n
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and py --          :,
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acceso to encreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (L.$pe  Cita) - inh.-nr
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by escreta                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level helso ulw he   a ozoral
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requLrements ci .-r
dicnseal nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
recut-seet,  f haman excreta and waste-water by wator-berno systems                  Estimated relative poveros isccme level (DS5 per 01?.            vi' *1   -  .
U:t t%, u,e of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that inc-oevel less 1-          no- '7.
'caILti  _eqp _pbsican- Population divided by number of practicing                       Per capita persona) incce.e of rho cicotro.
'puysians prqa1ified froc  a medicaL school- at  usiverity level.                   Estimated pepaLatios below       coy i       aevel  erves:) - -rr r   r :r    -
%qpUIt l9n pet ar_ring  person - Population divided by number of                          Peroe,.c of populatios (urbas and rural) vhe ore either "ohs           ilu. i-;, r  , 
pr.-tl-in     1 male asd female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                  "relative post" whichever is greater.
-- lt-nt nurse..



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
EGYPT
ZCONOM7C DI/ OPFt217 DATA
(Amount in mli on  of U9 dollars)
Actual                            Proiected        1973-  1975-
1973      1974      1975      1976           1980          1975   1980           1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                               (Constant 1975 Prices)                  Average Annual
Growth Rates      As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                     10,517    10,849   11,912  12,636                16,288      6.3      6.4            99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                   57       365    ..           82                113       ..      -.             +1    ..    +1
Gross Dcstic Income                        10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718                16,401      6.1      6.6           100   100   100
Imports(incl. noa-factor services)         -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904                -5,970    32.0       3.6            27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)         1.950      2230    2.198   2.5!2                 4.226      6.2    14.0             18    19    26
Resource Gap                                 -914    -1,822   -2,791  -1,392                -1,744    75.0    -9.0               9    23    10
Consumption Expenditures                    10.115    10,887   11,836  11,806               14,179      8.2      3.7            96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)    1,373        2,149    2,867   2,304                3,966    44.0      6.7             13    24    24
Domestic Savings                              459        327        76      912              2,222   -60.0    95.0               4     1    14
MERCi3ANDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                291       480       728      840                                                 17   16
Fuels and intermediate goods                 633     1,655    2.057   1,208                                                   38   46
imtion Goods                                 740     1,356    1,712   2,166                                                   45    38
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         1,664     3,491    4,497   4                                                      100  100
Exports
Agricultural Products                        423       857       522      544                                                 42    33
Industrial Goods                            580        817    1.046   1.068                                                   58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)         1,003     1,674    1,568   1.612                                                  100   100
Travel                                       156       266       332     465
Suez Canal                                   -                    85      312
Merchandise Trade Indices                           Avereae 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                            68       122       100      109
Import Price Index                           67         95       100      105
Terms of Trade Index                         101       128       100      103
Exports Volume Index                          94        88       100      114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                               An Percent of Total
Agriculture                                   33        34        33       31
Industry, Elec-tricity & Construction         24        26        28       28
Services                                     43         40        39       41
Total                                       100       100       100      100
1977
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                     Rev.
Current Prices   _         Budget                                As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                         3,180      3,658    4,549   5,914    7,641                                      34       38
Current Expenditures                     2.818      3.623    5.246   6.072    6.748                                      30       44
Budgetary Savings                          362         35     -697    -158        893                                    *        7.-
Public Sector Investment                 1,155      1,469    2,209   2,509    3,471                                      12       19
US $ million
DETAIL ON                           At 1978 P and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR                      Plan
INV\ESTNENT PROGRAM              (1978-82)    % of Total
Agriculture                        2,342             9
Industry and Mining                6,242            24
Services                           2,600            10
Transport and comrnunica-
tions (including Suez)          7,022            27
SELECTED INDICATORS                                              1973-    1975-                 Other                              T 802            30
1975     1980                 Tctal Expenditures                 21 OO
Average ICOR                                                     2.08     3.661/
Import Elasticity                                                3.81     0.75-
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                            Total Labor Force                         Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
In  M'illions        % of Total                    In US DlDlars         S cf Average
197,    1976         1973    1976                   1973    1976           1973    1976
Agriculture                                             4.2      4.1          47        43                  624    1,087            67       70
Industry                                                1.2      1.2          13       13                 1,557    2,775           167      178
Servicea2l                                              3.6      4.2          4o        44                  615      5.665          66      107
Total                                    ~~~~     ~~~~        ~~~~~~9.0  9.5  300  100        932    1,557           10-0     1O00
1' Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976.  For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
J, includes distribution, electricity and construction sectors.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
EGYPT
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, ETERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of tlS dollars at current prices)
Actual-
1973       1974        1975     1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                         1,003      1,674       1,568   1,612
Import of Goods, c.i.f.                                       -1,664    -3,491    -4,497  -4 214
Trade Balance                                                 -661    -1,817    -2,929  -2,602
Service Receipts                                                  421        726       1,250   1,980
Service Payments                                                 -414       -541        -801    -896
Service Balance                                                   7        185         449   1,084
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                                  -654     -1,632      -2,480  -1,518
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                       -407        -631       -476     -713'
(of which suppliers' credits)                                 (277)      (-285)     (-280)  (-414)
C.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts                   -113         -28       -241
D.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                                -1,174     -2,291    -3,197  -2,235L
E.   Supply of Funds                                               1,290      2,119       3,217   2,208
Private unrequited transfers                                      6         42          91       87
Official grants                                                 725      1,264         988      625
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                      --         --          --
Other MLT loans                                                 170        199         583      760
Suppliers' credits                                              160        273         363      501
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                          --           5      1,580       550
Foreign investment                                             --            7          20       60
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits              352        585       -264        -5
Other monetary movements, net 1/                              -123        -256       -144     -370
F.  Changes in Reserves                                             116       -172          20      -27
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                                    725      1,264         988      62.5
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                           --           85          77      157
IDA                                                            75           55          55       41)
Other Multilateral                                             --            6         100       95
Governments                                                   290          595      2,507      934
Suppliers/Commercial                                          160          273        363      501
Total Public MLT Loans                                        525        1,014      3,102   1,727
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                        79           95        111      180
Repayments on Public Debt                                     407          631        476       717
Total Public Debt Service                                     486          726        587      897
Burden on Exchange Earnings (%)
Public Debt Service                                           34.1         30.3       20.8     25.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                                   Actual Debt Outstanding on 0ecember 31, 1977
Disbursed Only            Percent
Loans                                                  5,458.3                     67.9
(of which: IBRD)                                       ( 86.6)                    (1.1)
IDA)                                      (167.9)                   (2.1)
Deposits in CBE                                         1,938.3                    74.1
Supnliers credits                                        640.7                      8.0
Total Public MLT Debt                               8                             O00.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                              55S
1/ Includes errorS and omissi-ns
EM1DA
September 1978



ANNFX II
TIIE STATUS OF B,tNK GROUP OcrPFl1ONS IN EGYPT                    Page 1 of 7
A.  STATFMENT OF rANIK LONS A'D IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1978)
Amount In million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                        less cancellations
Numbers            FY        Borrower         Purpose                                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursod
Ln 243-UAR            60          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                     56.5      --         --
Cr 181-UAR            70          UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                       -      26.0         3.7
Cr 284-UAR            72          ARE           Railways I                                --    30.0          1.1
Cr 393-UAR            73          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                      --    36.0         11.0
Cr 412-UAR            73          ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/            -     15.0          0.9
Cr 423-UAR            74          ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation             --    18.5          4.4
Cr 437-UAR            74          ARE           Population                                       5.0          0.5
Cr 484-UAR            74          ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                               20.0          3.6
Cr 524-EGT            75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                            --    35.0          1.0
Ln 1062-EGT           75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                           35.0      --         1.2
Ln 1064-EGT           75          SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation                50.0      --357
Ln 1085-EGT           75          ARE           Tourah Cement                            40.0                 8.3
Ln 1098-EGT           75          ER            Railways II                              37.0      --        15.4
Cr 548-EGT            75          ARE           Telecormmunications                       --    30.0         13.6
Cr 576-EGT            76          ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0               5.3
Ln 1239-EGT           76          APA           Alexandria Port                          45.0      --        44.1
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76            ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                 50.0     -          47.9
Cr 637-EGT            76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                   --    40.0         36.4
Ln 1285-EGT           76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                  10.0     -          10.0
Ln 1292-EGT           76          ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                   52.0     --         51.6
Ln 1369-EGT           77          AWTA          Alexandria Water Supply                  56.0     --55.7
Cr 681-EGT            77          ARE           Education                                 -     25.0         22.2
Cr 719-EGT            77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                    --    27.0         27.0
Ln 1439-EGT           77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0      --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                   12.0     --         12.0
Ln 1453-EGT           77          EfA           Regional Electrification                48.0      -         46.8
Ln 1456-EGT           77          ARE           Industrial Imports                       70.0     --        61.0
Ln S-005-EGT          77          ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and                2.5     --          1.9
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT           78          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                   100.0      --        83.7
Cr S-20-EGT           78          ARE           Water Supply Engineering                 --      2.0         2.0
Cr 774-ECT            78          ARE           Telecommunications II                    --    53.0         53.0
Ln 1533-EDT           78          DIB           Development Industrial Bank III         40.0      --        40.0
Cr 830-EGT 3/         78          ARE        .  Agricultural Development                 --    32.0         32.0
Cr 831-EDT 3/         78          ARE           Urban Developrmenc                       --    14.0         14.0
Cr 850-EDT 3/         79          ARE           Second Population                        _      25.0        25.0
Totals                                                                                 731.0  458.5
Of which has been repaid                                                                56.5
Total now outstanding                                                                  674.5
Amount sold                                                                  7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                     6.0          1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                         673.0  458.5        799.0
B. STATEYENT OF IFC INVESMI-NTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                      Typo of Business         '             Loan          Equity       Total
1976           Arab Ceramic Company        Ceramaic Industry                      4.25             .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency comr.mitment)  (5,635)
1977           Nile Clothing Company        Ready-Made Garment Induscry           0.40            0.20         0.60
1978           Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                       20.0             2.00        22.00
(Plus 1.0 standby commitment)         (23.00)
1/  Formerly Bank of AlexJandria.
/  Thiid Winjdcw Loan
3/ Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1979. Local funds
required for 1978 are included in the approved budget, and a special fund has
now been established for local currency expenditures for all four drainage
projects.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications
items, originally September 30, 1976, has been postponed twice to March 31,
1979; the credit account for the parts allocated to other items was closed on
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Over 50 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains should be finished by the end of 1978, and full completion is expected
by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects
and over 90 percent has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed in 1981-82. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1978, although
with a reduced scope. More than 90 percent of the credit has been disbursed.
For disbursing of the remaining funds (mainly for software activities) an
extension of the Closing Date by six months is anticipated.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by March 1979 or 18 months later than estimated during appraisal.
Delays have been due to shortage of skilled labor and delays in the completion
of civil works.
Cr. No. 524-ECT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $1 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Nearly all six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed. The Government has now
requested that the unutilized balance of the loan and credit be used for an
extension of some of these studies. These additional studies are designed
to either turn pre-feasibility studies prepared in the context of the sector
studies into feasibility studies, as in the case of a proposed pulp and paper
and possibly another textile project, or to follow up on issues identified
in the context of the sector studies, such as the need for a brick master
plan and a construction/contracting sector study. While preparation of the
pulp and paper feasibility study is already underway and expected to be com-
pleted by May 1979, the additional studies are expected to be contracted in
early 1979 and completed by end 1979. An extension of the Closing Date until
December 31, 1979 is, therefore, being considered to allow further disburse-
ments for the above studies under the technical assistance component of the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and
revenues are both considerably higher than expected at appraisal. Procurement
is proceeding well.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Procurement of machinery and equipment almost completed (95 percent).
Most items are already on site awaiting erection. After initial difficulties
with civil works contractor rate of construction now somewhat accelerated.
However, delay in start-up of commercial operations expected to be about 1-1/2
years.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, in 1977 the Egyptian Railways (ER) experienced opera-
tional difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because
of inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. Spare parts
availability and maintenance operations have now improved   and new locomo-
tives have been obtained from bilateral sources. As a result, both freight
and passenger traffic increased, but ER's financial position remains serious.
Government is considering increases in rail tariffs proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed:  Telex equipment has been obtained with
financing from other sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was
deferred to the second project.  The part of the credit originally allocated
for the telex exchange is being used for the purchase of additiona[L cables.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976, Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed and $19.7 million have been dis-
bursed as of October 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected but is
now active. Consultants have completed the engineering preparation of
dredging and berth construction, and the works are under tender. Procurement
action on Bank-financed equipment and material is underway. Management
consultants are in the field.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants are at work on the drainage and irrigation components of the proj-
ect although the necessary counterpart staff have not always been present.
Tender documents for the Nubariya main drain will be issued soon. The Agri-
cultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance
from the World Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers proceed with
their respective investments, and to identify additional sub-borrowers. The
project is now well over one year behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected. Construction
of open drains is on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement
of equipment for making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year to a year and a half delay
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The
project is now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local
currency) more than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works.
In part this is due to the increased price of building materials recently
approved by the Government; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this,
although some government equity contribution would be required in the next two
years to supplement the companies internal cash generation in order to adhere
to the financial covenants as well as project costs. Early management
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
project implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting delays in procurement.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bidding is now in progress for water meters and pressure pipes and
other contract items for bidding are being prepared by AWA and its consul-
tants; progress with procurement is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is proceeding satisfactorily. All technical assistance contracts
have been awarded. Procurement of equipment and furniture under the project
is well advanced. Technical problems have been encountered with the construc-
tion of the two Technical institutes which needed to be redesigned, resulting
in a two year delay. However, the other 45 institutions are expected to open
classes as scheduled.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Design work for the project is well advanced. Implementation is
behind schedule although construction on the open drains has begun. Tender
documents for the pumping stations have been issued.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date:  February 6, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. Most contracts
for electrification equipment and materials have been awarded and construction
is expected to start early in 1979. Consultants for the extension of the UNDP
Power Sector Survey and for the Tariff Study are in the field. Contracts for
the review of safety and inspection procedures and for the training services
are to be awarded shortly.
Ln. No. 1456-ECT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Allocation of loan funds is almost completed and disbursements have
picked up.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; U',$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies are expected to submit feasibility studies by end 1978/early 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project execution is satisfactory, although dredging is slower than
planned. Both dredging contracts to be financed by the Bank have been awarded;
tender documents for equipment are being drawn up. Project planning and super-
vision arrangements are progressing well.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants have been appointed.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments under the project have commenced.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project implementation has started. Specifications for the equip-
ment and materials to be financed under the Credit are being prepared.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit
of August 30, 1978; Effective Date: December 31, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 27, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



ANNEX III
Page I of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare project:                                 15 months (January 1.977 to
March 1978)
(b)  Agencies preparing project:                      Ministries of Education,
Higher Education, Industry
and Mineral Resources,
Reconstruction and New
Communities, and Social
Affairs, and Ain Shams
University
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank:                                    April 1976 (Appraisal of
Education I)
(d)  Date of preparation mission:                     October 1977
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                        March 27, 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:              October 6, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   April 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
A start-up mission from the Association would visit the country
immediately following credit signing to review equipment and furniture lists
and discuss detailed implementation schedules and procurement procedures.
Frequent, but shorter supervision missions would be scheduled during the
first year to expedite furniture and equipment procurement and technical
assistance arrangements for the large number of existing institutions.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Condition of credit effectiveness:
Government and Ain Shams University would conclude an arrangement
under which $2.58 million of the credit proceeds would be made
available to the University (para. 69).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   Other conditions:
(i) student density in the science laboratory classes of the Ain
Shams Faculty of Education would not exceed 40 students per
laboratory class and adequate numbers of qualified instruc-
tional personnel would be provided to achieve agreed-upon
student/teacher ratios (para. 61);
(ii) qualified educational/training institutions would be con-
tracted by May 1, 1979 and May 31, 1979, respectively, to
provide both the consultants and the fellowship training
included in the technical assistance program (para. 68);
(iii)  project technician training institution directors and senior
instructors would be sent abroad for internship training
sufficiently early for them to return at least six months
prior to opening date of schools to participate in a two-
month program of training for other laboratory/workshop
instructors in the use and maintenance of the new instruc-
tional equipment (para. 68);
(iv) to ensure the continuing relevance of instructional programs
of the technician training schools and institute to the needs
of business and industry, advisory committees comprising repre-
sentatives of industry, commerce and Government would be formed
in each school by the opening date of classes, and a follow-up
system to trace graduate placement and performance would be
developed by the time the first classes graduate and be applied
annually thereafter (para. 74); and
(v) a follow-up study to compare the choice of further studies and
job placement of graduates of the preparatory and secondary
schools under the first education project and this project with
that of graduates from control schools in the same cities would
be developed by the time the first classes graduate and carried
out annually thereafter (para. 74).



SEA    ~~~~~~~'                                O~~~DdIETD      2
Ma"                                           SM)85'OIMpRAN                                                      '' KN S
._.  .E; 9 ; ' * ' , ., ~~~~~alCO                                                                  DAS    IBZnm
El.M-,                  'M        PORT SAID
2a                                                                               M I N Y A%ttnyo             ' " '                           E  EM    y
II,. El .r
-30.    .t,aCl  Yd
/            Soht\~~~SOHAG,                  .
ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                              D      0: , <                                        h       .
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                           (
26'                  0 E  reparontry IDers tfied Schools (MOE)
*   Secordary DS ersiftd Schols (MOE) 
EU  Air Dooms iniee,-ity-FCoo ty of Edotio-
*   Primary Teache Tro-rieg  Seh-   (MOE)                                                                                            A
o   Tehoj   Teoc-Ira TCr1 rig SDos.l (MOE)
A   Te-hreria  Training Schools (MOE)                                      o"El haao
2L  Teoh--rrro Train qg lhstltute (MOHE)                                          El KhI-
A   Inst*uctor Train eq Ceater MOoDA)
U  Ag-icilture Se-oedory SDhools I MOE)
o   Vaca0tronia Craisig Canters- rdsstriol Tiadede(MO MR)                                                                                         df
*   lad,stral-  Manogemert Tra nag Denser MO MR)
A   Voatioro T-ro-gCe-erns C-nlI cooTrodas(MORNC)                                                                                              AS
A   Cor-tro-tl-o  Maraqement Trro, g Ceq nter (MCRNC)
*   Handicraft Sk:Ils Truiriog (MOSA)                                                                                                                       Al Nosser I 1,
____Mair roads
ha t  aa]wys                                                                                                                                0 0
App-o-imoto gos-rnorate bodoor es                                                                                         ASWAN. DpM    Aso
-24-   _ -. reterrnrdonol     odareeh   C                                                                                                                                 24
TD1RKR K|E                                                                                                  K, YoKLi-   D    20   40  6S    80   " lo
I R A N                                                                         M, e  n       20 I               60
ROtOBRSPU j  -     AUDI  ARABIA             -_         T.                                                                                                     -w
S U D_ _ _ _ _2  _ _   _ _ _L_L 2' _ _   _ _ _ _ _                                      _  .  _   _    _                 - (     -  -       -                            
OF ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      im'tnarnarae                 ______                                                      _______________



