Report No. PIC2033
Project Name                   Macedonia-Financial and Enterprise...
Sector Adjustment Loan and Credit
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Finance
Project                        MKPA8409
Principal Responsible Entity   Ministry of Finance
Date PID Prepared              November 28, 1994
Projected Appraisal Date       January 9, 1995
Projected Board Date           June 22, 1995
Country and Sector Background
1.   Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a land-locked country in
the Balkan Peninsula with an area of 26 thousand square kilometers, a
population of 2.2 million and a per capita income of US$780 in 1993.
Since independence in 1991, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
has struggled for full political recognition by the international
community. Its admission to the United Nations in the Spring of 1993
and subsequent diplomatic recognition by several European countries and
the U.S.A. have substantially bolstered its international standing.
Despite major threats to political stability brought about by
hostilities in the north, the recent blockade by Greece in the south,
and tensions with its western and eastern neighbors, the country is
politically stable and peaceful. Recent elections have returned the
current ruling coalition to power.
2.   Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's economic problems originate
from policies and institutions inherited from former Yugoslavia. The
causes of poor economic performance were rooted in the Yugoslav system
of enterprise self-management. The stabilization programs of the 1980s
were successful in generating current account surpluses for Yugoslavia,
but did not reduce inflation or restore growth due to their failure to
solve the persistent and widespread imbalances at the microeconomic
level. Enterprises were poorly run and incurred losses which were
financed with credits from the banks they owned and controlled. Banks,
in turn, were supported by subsidized credits from the central bank.
These resulted in large quasi-fiscal deficits that led to loss of
monetary control and sharply increasing inflation.
3.   With the collapse of export markets in the former CMEA area, and
the loss of "domestic" markets following the dissolution of Yugoslavia
and the imposition of international sanctions on Serbia, the economy
went into a recession. Real GSP in 1993 declined to 50 percent of its
1989 level. Despite these difficulties, the Government started to
restore stability and address underlying structural problems. In April
1992, the Government implemented currency reform and initiated
stabilization measures that enabled the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia to avoid the hyperinflation of the Yugoslav dinar area. By
the summer of 1993, the Government had also started to discard the



complex trading system of the past, which incorporated several quotas.
It has also made important progress in reducing the number of goods and
services subject to price control.
4.    In December 1993, the Parliament adopted the 1994 Economic Reform
Program, consisting of short-term adjustment measures aimed at restoring
macroeconomic stability, and supported by an IMF Systemic Transformation
Facility (STF). The program also includes initial measures for
enterprise, banking and social sector reforms, which are being supported
by ERL. A support group led by the Government of the Netherlands, the
Bank for International Settlements and Mr. George Soros, a private
individual, provided grants and bridge loans to clear the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's arrears with the Bank.
5.   Data for the first nine months of 1994 indicate that the
stabilization program has been successful. The economy was stabilized
quicker than expected, with inflation of 2.4 percent per month in March
and April and less than 2 percent per month from May to September. The
freely floating exchange rate has remained stable in nominal terms and
the black market premium has disappeared. Wage control has reduced real
wages by 16 percent and has prevented a real appreciation of the
currency in terms of unit labor costs. Monetary and credit growth
targets agreed under the STF were met. As agreed with the IMF and the
Bank and in accordance with the Central Bank Act, selective credits were
phased-out as of March 31, 1994, enabling a sharp decline in reserve
money growth and in subsidies to agro-industry.
The Country's Adjustment Program
6.   The Government aims to reform the enterprise and banking sectors
principally through privatization and private sector development. The
Government considers that private owners and managers have better
incentives and, therefore, are the best agents to restructure and
organize enterprises and banks to respond efficiently to the new market
realities faced by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Under
FESAC, the Government's structural adjustment program for the enterprise
and banking sectors will use two key instruments of reform: first, a
change in governance in enterprises and banks through privatization and
private sector development; and second, the imposition of financial
discipline on enterprises and banks through hard budget constraints.
FESAC measures will address the four major obstacles to changing
governance and imposing financial discipline.
7.   Impediments to Early Privatization.    First, the privatization law
requires that insiders (employees) be given the right of first refusal
to own an enterprise and, for this purpose, has given them time to do
so. The Privatization Agency will take specific measures to encourage
and help insiders to submit their plans earlier than the deadlines to
speed up privatization and avoid a bunching problem. Second, it is
expected that after the deadlines for insider privatization lapse there
would be many enterprises and assets that insiders would not be
interested or able to buy. These enterprises and assets, which accrue
to the PA after the deadlines, will be disposed of expeditiously through
more automatic and rapid procedures, especially for small enterprises.
Finally, the financial capacity of local investors may not be sufficient
-2 -



to absorb the enterprises and assets offered for sale all at once. To
overcome this financing constraints, the Government will implement a
scheme that provides for the conversion of frozen foreign currency
deposits of the population (amounting to US$1 billion) into
privatization certificates for use in the purchase of enterprises and
assets.
8.   Politically Sensitive Enterprises.   There are enterprises which are
making large cash losses that the Government believes cannot be
downsized or closed immediately for political or social reasons. These
enterprises will not be allowed to continue to finance their losses with
bank loans otherwise banking reform would be frustrated and the hard
budget constraint imposed on other enterprises would not be credible.
They will be dealt with directly by the Government.
9.   Under FESAC, these enterprises would be treated under a Special
Restructuring Program. To ease their cash problem, past bank loans and
suppliers' credits would be frozen and debt-servicing suspended. Any
further cash shortage would be met by an explicit budget subsidy, but
only as a last resort, for the duration of the program and within the
agreed overall government budget envelope. In return, enterprises would
be required to formulate and implement aggressive cost-cutting action
plans to reduce their cash deficit as quickly as possible. By the end
of this cost-cutting exercise, the Government, based on bottom-line
results, will decide which enterprises would continue as viable, but
probably smaller enterprises and which would be closed down. At that
time, the going concerns would be privatized and past loans
renegotiated, while unviable enterprises would be liquidated and sold as
assets to settle past bank loans and suppliers' credits.
10. Illiquidity of 80 percent of the Banking System. A hard budget
constraint on banks will not work since 80 percent of the banking system
(Stopanska Banka and the Bank for Foreign Trade) is already illiquid.
The central bank has closed BNT. But, because of the size of Stopanska,
the central bank has been forced, as lender of last resort, to provide
Stopanska with liquidity credits and preferential reserve requirements
to meet Stopanska's cash requirements. This not only effectively
reverses the earlier important decision to abolish selective credits,
but endangers the central bank's monetary program. Moreover, the
liquidity support of Stopanska is currently financed by liquidity
constraints on other banks since the overall ceiling has so far been
maintained by the central bank. This unwittingly works against banking
reform which should encourage the growth of good banks and the reduction
of bad banks, and the promotion of greater competition.
11.  Under FESAC, Stopanska Banka and the Bank for Foreign Trade will be
financially restructured to address the liquidity problem. But the
financial restructuring will be accompanied by a change in governance
through privatization to ensure that past mistakes are not repeated.
Moreover, the restructuring and privatization of Stopanska will also
result in its break-up to end its dominance of the banking system.
Finally, all banks will be relieved of the overhang from frozen foreign
currency deposits and foreign credits.
12. Adverse Impact on Workers. Enterprise and, to some extent, bank
- 3-



restructuring and privatization will result in a major labor
realignment. Enterprise and bank reform will be accompanied by adequate
labor adjustment measures to make it more acceptable to the labor sector
and to cushion the impact of the social trauma. Under FESAC, cash
severance payments for the large loss-makers will be provided through
the budget to facilitate labor shedding. Severance payments will be
supplemented by active labor support services, such as job placement,
training, job counselling, small business development and other labor
redeployment measures. Unemployment benefits and social assistance will
be rationalized to encourage labor mobility and a redeployment of human
resources to new and efficient economic activities. A time-bound plan
to place the pension fund on a financial equilibrium will be agreed with
the Bank.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
13. Objectives. The proposed operation would support implementation of
the key elements of the Government's enterprise, banking and social
sector reform program, and help restore the country's creditworthiness
by assisting in the arrears clearing process of the country's debt to
preferred creditors started under the ERL.
14. Description. The proposed Loan, in the amount of US$20 million,
would be made to the Government for 20 years, including a five-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
proposed Credit, in the amount of SDR 27.4 million, would be on standard
IDA terms. Both would constitute a balance of payments support to the
Government to help it pursue its stabilization and structural reform
program.
15. Financing. The Loan/Credit would finance 100 percent of the CIF
cost of general imports, excluding luxury goods, military equipment,
nuclear reactors and parts, uranium, tobacco and tobacco processing
machinery, as defined under the Standard Trade Classification.
16. Environmental Aspects. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OS. 4.00, Annex A), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "U" and would not require an
environmental assessment.
17. Implementation Arrangements. Procurement of goods would be carried
out according to the Procurement Guidelines of the Bank (May 1992).
Imports made by ministries, public enterprises and private importers
above US$2 million per contract would be procured in accordance with
simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The Bank's standard
bidding documents for goods would be used for ICB procurement.
18. Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive procurement, acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost below
US$2 million each for the public sector would be awarded through
international shopping based on an evaluation and comparison of at least
three quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two eligible
countries. Commercial practice would be used for imports by the private
- 4 -



sector for contracts of below US$2 million per contract. Wherever
possible, quotations from eligible suppliers form at least two countries
would be sought. To keep the operation manageable, small contracts
below US$10,000 would not be eligible for Bank financing.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



