Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16648
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2721-MK)
June 2, 1997
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department 1
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
US$1.00     = 00.20   05.10   23.30  43.26  37.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA                   =      Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAS                   =      Country Assistance Strategy
CMEA                  =      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ERL                   =      Econornic Recovery Loan/Credit
FESAC                 =      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
GSP                   =      Gross Social Product
IBRD                  =      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                   =      Implementation Completion Report
IFC                   -      International Finance Corporation
IFI                   =      International Financial Institutions
IMF                   =      International Monetary Fund
LDP                          L Letter of Development Policy
MKD                   =      Macedonian Denar
SDR                   =      Special Drawing Rights
SFRY                  =      Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SRTAP                 =      Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
SRP                   =      Special Restructuring Program
STF                   =      Structural Transformation Facility
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Director:  Kenneth G. Lay, ECIDR
Division Chief:  Franco Batzella, EC1IT
Responsible Staff:  George Zaidan, Project Adviser
Chuck Woodruff, Principal Financial Spec.
Rohit Mehta, Sr. Disbursement Officer
S. Ramachandran, Senior Economist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Credit No. 2721-MK]
Contents
Preface.                                                                                      i
Evaluation Summary .......................................... ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT   .................   1
A. Introduction ........................................   1
B. Initial Bank Involvement and Activities  .......................   2
C. Project Objectives ....................................   3
D. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................   4
E. Implementation Record  .................................   7
F. Project Sustainability  ..................................   8
G. Bank's Performance ...................................   8
H. Borrower's Performance ................................   9
I.  Assessment of the Outcome.  .............................   9
J.  Future Operations ....................................  10
K. Key Lessons Learned  ..................................  10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ................................  13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................  14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits  ..........................  15
Table 3: Project Timetable             ..................................   15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   ...  .  16
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants ............................  16
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................  17
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions  ...........................  17
PART III. BORROWER'S EVALUATION  ...........................  18
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
MAP NO. 25501R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Credit No. 2721-MK]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for
which a credit in the amount of SDR 54.7 million (US$85 million equivalent), was approved
on May 16, 1995 and made effective on June 30, 1995.
The credit was closed on September 30, 1996 or six months later than scheduled.
The first tranche of SDR 27.35 million was made available upon effectiveness and the
second tranche was fully disbursed on October 18, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Charles Woodruff (Principal Financial Specialist) of the
Central Vice Presidency for Finance and Private Sector Development and reviewed within
the Country Department I of the Europe and Central Asia Region. The Borrower provided
comments in a letter to the Bank dated May 26, 1997 which is appended to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun on November 13, 1996. It is based on material in
the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on
the draft ICR.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Credit No. 2721-MK]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Situated in the middle of the Balkans, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is
a small, landlocked and largely mountainous country of about 26 thousand square kilometers
and two million people. Since independence in 1991, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia has struggled for international political recognition. Its admission to the United
Nations in the spring of 1993 and subsequent diplomatic recognition by several European
countries and the U.S.A. have bolstered its international standing. Despite major threats to
political stability brought about by hostilities to the north, a recently ended blockade by
Greece in the south and tensions with its neighbors, the country has been peaceful and
politically stable.
2.    Macedonia inherited a weak economy that resulted from decades of the incoherent
macroeconomic polices of the former Yugoslavia. The breakup of Yugoslavia and the
collapse of the CMEA trading system resulted in precipitous drops in output, employment
and living standards in the country during 1991-1994. Most socially owned and mixed
enterprises were incurring losses: for 1992 total losses by 3,688 enterprises were equivalent
to 8.6 percent of GSP, of which losses of around 7.2 percent of GSP, or 84 percent of the
total losses, were concentrated in the 20 largest loss-making enterprises, all of which were
either socially owned or had mixed ownership.
3.    The banking sector, dominated by Stopanska Banka, had a culture of politically
motivated lending to loss-making socially owned enterprises who also owned the banks.
Although the insidious influence of bad borrowers/owners was eliminated before Macedonia's
independence, banks were not solely profit oriented and bad loans accumulated. Stopanska
was also illiquid due to the rapid accumulation of non-performing loans resulting from the
crisis in the enterprise sector and the loss of foreign exchange deposited with the National
Bank of Macedonia which, in turn, had been deposited with the central bank of Yugoslavia.
Sixty percent of the banking sector loans and guarantees denominated in foreign exchange
were due from 13 of the largest loss-makers and the default rate on these loans was close to
100 percent. The default rate on denar denominated loans was running around 50 percent.
Most of the foreign exchange denominated deposits of households and enterprises in the
banking system were frozen.
4.    The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) was the second
adjustment operation for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The first was the
Economic Recovery Loan/Credit (ERL), a single tranche operation, which was approved on
February 8, 1994 and fully disbursed by July 25, 1994. The ERL also supported reforms in
the enterprise, banking and social sectors and its outcome was assessed as highly satisfactory.



iii
5.    Under the Country Assistance Strategy, approved on April 19, 1995, the main
objectives of the Bank Group were to assist the Government in tackling the major policy
issues in the areas of enterprise reform, financial intermediation and maintenance of an
adequate social safety net during the period of transition. The FESAC was the primary
instrument for implementing this strategy.
Project Objectives
6.    The FESAC supported the Government's efforts to reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit by
stemming the flow of enterprise losses. This complimented the macroeconomic program
supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Stand-by Arrangement. Specifically,
the FESAC addressed four major issues: (a) the slow pace of privatization; (b) the losses
incurred by 25 politically sensitive enterprises; (c) the adverse social impact of labor
shedding in those 25 enterprises; and (d) the illiquidity of 80 percent of the banking system.
7.    Building upon the legal and institutional framework created under the ERL, the
FESAC supported the actual implementation of the various reforms in the enterprise, banking
and social sectors, including strengthening of the legal framework for each of the sectors.
8.    Significant progress in actual implementation of the above described program was a
condition of Board presentation, while completion of the program was a condition of second
tranche release.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.    Initial project implementation of the Special Restructuring Program (SRP) for the 25
large loss-makers was highly satisfactory, with agreed actions taken promptly, including:
(i) the shedding of around 15,000 surplus workers on a voluntary basis with severance
payments covered by the fiscal budget; and (ii) implementation of the agreed adjustments in
electricity and railway tariffs. However, with one exception, the Government failed to
follow through on its commitment to close and liquidate the unviable enterprises or business
units among or within the 25 enterprises.' Instead, it decided to privatize unviable
enterprises/business units along with the viable enterprises or business units.
10.   Stopanska Banka was downsized, recapitalized and several of its branches were spun-
off and privatized. Though it had been privatized by the end of the program, efforts were
still under way to find a foreign bank to act as a strategic investor and provide the private
governance necessary to truly change the culture of the bank. Also, the Central Bank was
again forced to address renewed liquidity problems at Stopanska.
11.   Finally, the Government had to request a waiver to the condition which required
adoption of the Law on Denationalization and Restitution. Based on the satisfactory overall
completion of the FESAC program, the condition was waived.
I     The assets of the main loss-making business units of the Agro-kombinat Red Star,
including a winery, were sold at auction in December 1995.



iv
12.   Although the reform program was designed with the help of the Bank, the
Government took ownership of the program and devised the temporary legal framework for
the SRP. The authorities understood that the stabilization and structural reform measures
supported by the ERL and the FESAC were critical to tum around an economy that was
suffering from the vestiges of the policies and institutions of former Yugoslavia amid a very
hostile external environment.
Sustainability of Results and Future Operations
13.   The reforms supported by the ERL and the FESAC have so far been successful.
Sustainability on these reforms will depend on the Government's ability to stick to the agreed
macroeconomic path and pursue the various structural reforms to be supported by the
proposed follow-up adjustment operation, a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL/C).
14.   Under the proposed SAL/C, the next phase of the Government's economic reform
program will focus on: (a) further liberalization of the trade regime; (b) reforming the
agricultural policy; (c) privatizing the socially owned enterprises in the agricultural sector
which were excluded from the main privatization program supported by the FESAC; and
(d) completing the privatization of enterprises covered by the main program, including, in
particular, the privatization or liquidation of the SRP enterprises.
15.   Beyond the SAL, adjustment operations would support reforms in the social sector,
additional measures in the financial sector and forestry and land reforms. The most likely
operation following the SAL is a planned Social Sector Adjustment Credit to support
incremental short run social costs of economic adjustment while laying the framework for
deeper social sector reforms critical for achieving sustained economic growth.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
16.   The Government was fully committed to fundamental structural reform in the
enterprise and banking sectors, and the FESAC was instrumental in assisting the Government
to design a realistic and effective program for that purpose. However, in the case of
privatization, the circumstances of the country (i.e., blockades, embargoes and strife in other
former Yugoslav republics were a deterrent to the participation of foreign strategic investors
who might have brought with them new capital, technology and markets) favored the transfer
of ownership of enterprise assets to insiders. As a result most of the enterprises in the
program were purchased by their owners and managers.
17.  In dealing with the largest and most politically sensitive loss-making enterprise, the
Government, with one exception, found it impossible to martial the political will to actually
close and liquidate such enterprises. This may have been due, at least in part, to a leftward
shift in the balance of political power which took place during the implementation of the
SRP. Whatever the cause, the largest loss-makers are still operating, and completion of their
privatization has already resulted in delaying Board presentation of the follow-up SAL/C.
18.  In the case of the reform program for Stopanska Banka, discrepancies between the
wording of the President's Report, that of the policy matrix annexed to the Report and that
of the Loan Agreement resulted in misunderstandings on the part of both Bank staff and the
Macedonian authorities as to what actions needed to be carried out prior to the release of the



v
second tranche. The Government's Program as described in the President's Report, states
that "Privatization (defined as at least 51 percent of shares being in private hands, and
governance being controlled by private owners, with the board and management independent
of the Government and government-controlled entities) of the core STNB is also a condition
of the Second Tranche."2 The policy matrix stated that release of the second tranche would
require "Core Stopanska [to be] fully recapitalized and privatized (51 percent), including
expected EBRD share, and private governance established."3 However, the Loan Agreement
required "Completion of privatization of Stopanska Banka with a Board of Directors and
management independent of the Borrower or any Agency of the Borrower,"4
19.   The Borrower held that the conditions in the Loan Agreement relating to second
tranche release had been fully met. These required that Stopanska be privatized with a board
of directors and management independent of the Borrower or any agency of the Borrower.
The Bank initially took the position that the local private investors which held the majority of
Stopanska's shares were not capable of providing the type governance required since this
investor group was largely made up of the recently privatized enterprises which had founded
Stopanska. In the end, given the Government's sincere efforts at bringing in a foreign bank
as the controlling shareholder of Stopanska, the Bank agreed that the tranche release
conditions had been met.
20.   The preparation and implementation of the FESAC have provided several key lessons:
(a)   Agreement on reforms without credible up front actions is insufficient.
The arrears clearing feature of the earlier ERL led the Macedonian authorities
to think that agreement on reforms without any actual implementation would
suffice for the Bank to provide further assistance. In hindsight, the ERL and
the FESAC should have been designed as a single two-tranche operation, but
the time needed to design the SRP, etc. did not allow this approach.
(b)   Even when a government is committed to reforms in principle, specific
actions generate opposition and, therefore, legal commitments
("conditionality") are important.
(c)   Agreeing to specific actions, even in good faith, does not mean they will
automatically be carried out because of administrative and technical
constraints. Frequent supervision with considerate but consistent reminders
and assistance, when needed, are necessary.
(d)   Using expatriate experts to carry out diagnostic studies of enterprises and
design enterprise-specific cost-cutting programs is very expensive.
Therefore, this approach can be used only when the number of large
complex enterprises is small and when trust funds are available.
2     President's Report, page 25, para. 85.
3     President's Report, Annex 2, page 3.
4     Schedule 3, para. 4 of the Loan Agreement.



vi
(e)   The reluctance of the central bank to freely discuss their qualms or
reservations about the real situation of the banking sector, both under the
ERL and the FESAC, prevented problems from being corrected sooner.
(f)   To avoid misunderstandings concerning the necessary actions prior to
tranche release, it is extremely important to have consistency in wording
among the body of the President's report, the policy matrix and the Loan
Agreement.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Credit No. 2721-MK]
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    Situated in the middle of the Balkans, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is
a small, landlocked and largely mountainous country of about 26 thousand square kilometers
and two million people. Since independence in 1991, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia has struggled for political recognition by the international community. Its
admission to the United Nations in the spring of 1993 and subsequent diplomatic recognition
by several European countries and the U.S.A. have substantially bolstered its international
standing. Despite major threats to political stability brought about by hostilities to the north,
a recently ended blockade by Greece in the south and tensions with its neighbors, the country
has been peaceful and politically stable.
2.    The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's economic problems originated from
policies and institutions inherited from the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY). The causes of poor economic performance were rooted in the Yugoslav system of
enterprise self-management. The stabilization programs of the 1980s were successful in
generating current account surpluses for Yugoslavia, but did not reduce inflation or restore
growth due to their failure to solve the persistent and widespread imbalances at the
microeconomic level. Enterprise governance was vested in worker councils and all important
business decisions, including the selection of managers, were made by these councils. Since
capital was owned by society at large, there was no effective advocate for its preservation
and growth. The primordial concern was employment and wages, resulting in the
decapitalization of unprofitable enterprises. Enterprises were poorly run and incurred losses
which were financed with credits from the banks that they owned and controlled. Banks, in
turn, were supported by subsidized credits from the central bank. These resulted in large
quasi fiscal-deficits that led to a loss of monetary control and sharply increasing inflation.
3.    The initial macroeconomic conditions inherited by the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia provided the Government with little room for economic policy-making. The
country had to make the transition from a system that allowed it to be a net recipient of large
external savings (about 20 percent of Gross Social Product (GSP) until 1991) to one with a
very limited capacity to finance a current account deficit. In the 1991-93 period, support
from the international community was almost absent. The only source of external financing
was through running arrears on repayment obligations. By the end of 1993, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's external debt stood at some US$780 million, equivalent to
30 percent of GDP. There were, in addition, an estimated US$300 million of SFRY debt in
dispute and unallocated at the time.



4.    With the collapse of export markets in the former Council of Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA) area, the loss of "domestic" markets following the dissolution of the
Yugoslav Federation and the imposition of international sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro,
the economy went into a recession. Real GSP in 1993 declined to 50 percent of its 1990
level. The sharp drop in output was not accompanied by a commensurate increase in
unemployment because of formal restrictions on layoffs and a built-in bias against them
under the self-management system. Labor redundancy increased enterprise losses and
rendered them increasingly unable to meet their domestic and foreign financial obligations.
Enterprise arrears caused severe portfolio problems for the largest banks. On the fiscal side,
a narrowing tax base reduced revenues from 48 percent of GSP in 1990, to 37 percent in
1991 and to 28 percent in 1992, although major fiscal efforts reversed the trend to 37 percent
in 1993. Only the accumulation of substantial arrears on Government expenditures prevented
monetization of the resulting deficits.
5.    Despite these difficulties, the Government started to take measures to restore stability
and to address underlying structural problems. In April 1992, the Government implemented
currency reforms and initiated stabilization measures that enabled the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia to avoid the hyperinflation of the Yugoslav dinar area. By the
summer of 1993, the Government had also started to dismantle the complex trading system
of the past, which incorporated several quotas. The number of goods subject to import
quotas was reduced to 4 percent from 16 percent under the previous regime. Import tariffs
were kept low and ranged from 0 to 25 percent.
6.    The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia also made important progress in
reducing the number of commodities subject to price control. By the end of 1993, the scope
of price control was reduced through the further liberalization of, or the imposition of only a
notification requirement for, the prices of milk, municipal rents and services, water supply,
central heating and motor vehicle insurance. In late 1993, the real prices of electricity and
oil derivatives were increased. The share of commodities with controlled prices were
reduced by these actions to 14 percent in value.
B. Initial Bank Involvement and Activities
7.    The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) was the second
adjustment operation for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia following its accession
to Bank membership on December 30, 1993 as a successor state to the SFRY. Under the
Country Assistance Strategy approved on April 19, 1995, the main objectives of the Bank
Group were to assist the Government in tackling the major policy issues in the areas of
enterprise reform, financial intermediation and maintenance of an adequate social safety net
during the period of transition. The FESAC was the primary instrument for implementing
this strategy.
8.    The first operation, the single tranche Economic Recovery Loan/Credit (ERL), was
approved in February 1994 and was fully disbursed by end-July 1994. The ERL, which
facilitated clearance of IBRD arrears inherited from the former Yugoslavia, required very
few reforms in the enterprise and banking sectors. As the overriding concern was arrears
clearance, monies were provided in exchange for empty general promises.



9.    Despite the Government's commitment to proceed with bank and enterprise reforms,
it was hamstrung by three factors: (a) the technical expertise required to design and
implement the reforms was not readily available; (b) implementation of these reforms Was
patently more socially painful and, therefore, politically more difficult in an election year;
and (c) neither the large loss-making enterprises nor the Government had the financial means
to provide the severance payments associated with the inevitable labor shedding which would
accompany the downsizing or closure of these enterprises. Thus actual implementation of
banking sector and enterprise sector reform did not progress very far, and in reality the
FESAC and the ERL represent a single operation.
10.   Preparation of the FESAC, however, was not without problems. The willingness to
accept, in the ERL, "initial measures" as a basis for an adjustment operation provided a bad
precedent. It, therefore, required a number of difficult discussions before the authorities
understood that the FESAC was to support actual implementation of reforms. However,
once this had been accomplished, the FESAC program was implemented with the full
agreement and support of the Government.
C. Project Objectives
11.   The FESAC aimed at supporting the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's
program of stabilization and structural reforms, agreed under the ERL, by helping to finance
the costs associated with the restructuring of the enterprise and financial sector. The
macroeconomic program was also supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
through a drawing on a Stand-by Arrangement. The FESAC program supported structural
reforms in the enterprise and banking sectors by addressing the four major obstacles to
changing the governance of enterprises and banks and imposing financial discipline. These
were: (a) the slow pace of privatization; (b) politically sensitive loss-making enterprises
which could not be closed or downsized for political and social reasons; (c) the illiquidity of
80 percent of the banking system; and (d) the adverse impact on workers.
12.   Moving beyond the agreements reached under the ERL, the FESAC supported the
actual implementation of the various reforms in the enterprise, banking and social sectors,
including strengthening of the legal framework for each of the sectors.
13.    In the enterprise sector, the FESAC program supported:
(a)   a Special Restructuring Program (SRP), aimed at stemming the flow of losses
(about 7.2 percent of GDP) in 23 large industrial enterprises plus the railways
and the electric utility by:
(i)   shedding labor (about 16,000 of 57,000 employees);
(ii)  spinning-off and privatizing non-core business units;
(iii) increasing tariffs (in the cases of the railways and electric utility);
(iv)  isolating the 23 industrial enterprises from the banking system; and



-4-
(v)   privatizing or liquidating all 23 industrial enterprises
(b)   the privatization of:
(i)   800 of the 1,217 small, medium and large socially owned enterprises
covered by the Privatization Law; and
(ii)   100,000 square meters of State-owned business premises.
(c)   additions to the legal framework, including:
(i)    a new Commercial Code;
(ii)   a Law on Denationalization and Restitution of Confiscated Properties;
(iii)  a new Bankruptcy Code; and
(iv)   a Law on Public Enterprises.
14.    In the banking sector, the FESAC program focused on the largest bank in the
system, Stopanska, which would be: (a) recapitalized with liquidity restored;
(b) downsized through the spin-off and privatization of several large branches; and
(c) privatized, including the expected participation of EBRD, with private governance
established. The banking program also provided for the removal, from the balance sheets of
the banks, of all foreign credits extended by Paris Club creditors prior to April 30, 1992 and
the development and implementation of a scheme to allow individuals to exchange their
frozen foreign exchange deposits in banks for shares in enterprises or to acquire the rights to
State-owned business premises, or to sell them to others who would use them for such
purposes. Finally, the program included the completion of the prudential regulatory
framework and enhancement of central bank enforcement powers.
15.    In the social sector, the FESAC focused on: (a) provision of severance payments
for workers made redundant under the SRP; and (b) clearance of arrears in payments under
the social assistance and unemployment compensation programs. Additions to the legal
framework for the sector included a new Law on Labor Relations with provisions making it
easier and less costly to terminate surplus workers; and revisions to the social safety net
legislation so that the unemployed, working poor and pensioners would all be provided equal
social assistance payments and insurance coverage would be extended to the self employed
who hitherto were not eligible for any assistance.
16.   Significant progress in actual implementation of the above described program was a
condition of Board presentation, while completion of the program was a condition of second
tranche release.



- 5 -
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
Macroeconomic Framework
17.   The stabilization program supported by the ERL and the IMF's STF was successfully
implemented. The economy was stabilized more rapidly than expected, with inflation in
1994 of 55 percent, compared with the target of 70 percent and an inflation in 1993 of 230
percent. The freely floating exchange rate has remained stable in nominal terms and the
black market premium disappeared. The country succeeded in maintaining net international
reserves at the agreed level despite the outflows related to the clearance of arrears with the
Bank. Wage controls reduced real wages in 1994 by an average of 14 percent.
18.   Monetary and credit growth targets agreed under the STF were met. As agreed with
the IMF and the Bank and in accordance with the Central Bank Act, selective credits were
phased-out as of March 31, 1994, enabling a sharp decline in reserve money growth and in
subsidies to agro-industry. Fiscal performance was better than expected with the reduction in
agricultural subsidies, public sector wages and entitlements under the social programs
(pension fund), increase in sales tax, excise tax and customs duties, and implementation of
tax reform.
Structural Reforms
19.   A PHRD (Japan) grant for the preparation of the FESAC and the accompanying
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Credit (SRTAC) provided the Government with the
needed technical support to design and start implementing enterprise, banking and social
safety net reforms. The ruling coalition party's victory at the polls in December 1994 gave
the Government the political capital to proceed with the reforms. An interesting feature of
the SRP was the self-selection of the largest loss-making enterprises for participation in the
program. These enterprises apparently presumed that joining the program would give them
access to funds from the Bank.
20.  In mid-January 1995, the rather bold enabling legislation for the SRP was adopted.
The SRP Law, which would be in effect until December 31, 1995, abolished worker's
councils in the socially owned enterprises and -suspended provisions of the Labor Code
providing for workers' collective bargaining rights and their right to advance notice of
termination of employment. The Law also gave the Government control of the enterprise
boards of directors. During the effective period of the Law, enterprises were accorded a
moratorium on the service of their debts outstanding at the end of 1994 but would be
required, with certain exceptions, to operate on a cash basis in their dealings with suppliers.
In exceptional cases, the Government might provide guarantees on specific transaction based,
self-liquidating trade credits, linked to purchase orders from creditworthy customers. The
total amount of such guarantees was capped at US$10 million. Prior to Board presentation
around 6,000 surplus workers were shed, on a voluntary basis, with severance payments
equal to one month's wages for every year of service up to a maximum of 12 months wages.
21.   An interministerial committee was charged with responsibility for the overall
implementation of the SRP. Day to day management of the program was the responsibility
of a Head Trustee who supervised the trustees placed by the committee in every enterprise.



- 6 -
A full time Project Advisor was recruited by the Bank and paid from PHRD trust funds. An
international consulting firm was hired under the TA component of the SRTAC in order to
provide industrial specialists and financial specialists familiar with bankruptcy and liquidation
procedures.
22.   By August 1996 the entire FESAC program had been completed except for the
adoption of the Law on Denationalization which had been delayed, in part, as a result of
comments made by IDA on a draft of the law dated August 1995. The comments, which
suggested that former owners of developed parcels of land receive financial compensation in
lieu of restitution, were incorporated in a new draft which was presented to Parliament in
November 1995. However, adoption of the law was stalled because the Government was
unable to quantify the fiscal cost of compensation. During 1996, a survey was conducted
and it was determined that the fiscal cost of compensation would be too high and, therefore,
a new draft law emphasizing restitution is being prepared but cannot be adopted before the
end of 1996.
23.  In the course of the SRP, the 23 large loss-making industrial enterprises shed about
15,000 of 45,000 workers and were broken up into around 122 successor enterprises, each
with a core business. Even though only about 40 of 110 of these enterprises, for which 1995
financial results were available, appeared to be viable, the Privatization Agency approved
privatization plans for all of them, thereby satisfying the second tranche release condition
that these enterprises be in the process of privatization or under liquidation. Furthermore,
since the potential fiscal cost related to loan guarantees was kept well below the US$10
million cap, the ongoing losses in the majority of SRP successor enterprises were financed
neither by the budget nor by bank loans, but largely by wage arrears. However, a small
number of very large indivisible enterprises like the steel works and a smelter, who were
also very large consumers of electricity, were permitted to accumulate substantial accounts
payable with the electricity utility demonstrating that some enterprises could still escape
financial discipline and accumulate arrears which might someday have to be covered by the
budget. Finally, while the breakup of the complex industrial enterprises provided for a clear
separation of the viable from the unviable business units within them, the Government, with
one exception, was unable to follow through on its pledge to close and liquidate unviable
enterprises, preferring, instead, to try and sell them to creditors or employees. Nonetheless,
the SRP largely accomplished the Government's primary objective of neutralizing the power
of the large enterprises to oppose structural reforms in the enterprise sector. Completion of
privatization in the cases of three of the six largest loss-makers became a condition of Board
presentation for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL/C) negotiated in September
1996.
24.   The results for the two utilities were also disappointing. The electric utility, possibly
because it has always had considerable political power and possibly because the tariff
increases implemented under the FESAC restored its financial viability, was able to resist
shedding 400 workers through lay-offs and another 600 through the spin-off of non-core
businesses such as hotels, workshops, construction units and catering services. The layoffs
took place about one year after those in the industrial enterprises and required the firing and
replacement of the General Manager. The new General Manager has subsequently been
dismissed, in part, because he failed to implement the spin-offs of non-core businesses.
These spin-offs, which were not explicit conditions for release of the second tranche of the



- 7 -
FESAC, are now covered by conditions under the SAL/C. In the case of the railways which
operate in a competitive market, losses could not be eliminated by tariff increase. However,
870 jobs were eliminated by layoffs and rotating furloughs, and another 630 workers will be
shed under the SAL/C by spinning off non-core business units.
25.   While the privatization targets were readily met, it is not surprising, given
Macedonia's limited appeal to foreign strategic investors due to regional strife, embargoes
and blockades, and the limited financial resources of domestic investors, that employees and
managers became the new owners of most enterprises. Thus, it is not clear whether
fundamental improvements in governance will occur on a widespread basis or if the workers'
courncils will simply be replaced by the annual general assemblies of shareholders.
Preliminary indications are that governance is improving in those enterprises which are
forced to compete on world markets. While employee ownership undoubtedly lessened
employee resistance to privatization, it will not bring with it many of the benefits associated
with transferring ownership to strategic investors, including access to new capital, technology
or markets.
26.   While the Government was able to advise the Bank that all conditions in the Loan
Agreement related to Stopanska Banka had been met, it was clear that the objectives of the
program for Stopanska had only been partially met. While the majority of Stopanska's share
capital was in private hands, none of the owners was equipped to provide the type of
governance required. In fact, many of the larger, now private, shareholders were the
enterprises that had originally founded the bank in order to have preferential access to
credits, a practice contributed to the bank's decapitalization and the need for the subsequent
costly recapitalization by the Government. On the positive side, the Government is actively
seeking the equity participation in Stopanska of a foreign bank along with IFC.
27.   All FESAC conditions related to the creation of a social safety net were met,
including the creation of a Labor Redeployment Fund. However, most of the programs
under the Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project were not operational until at least
one year after the large scale layoffs had occurred in the SRP enterprises. Thus, it is too
early to assess their impact on minimizing the social cost of retrenchment. Also, it is too
early to tell if the efforts made to eliminate arrears in payments from the social assistance
fund and unemployment fund will be sustained. In fact, this condition was relaxed to require
that such payments be made no later than the payment of civil service salaries.
E. Implementation Record
28.  Initial project implementation was satisfactory, with agreed actions taken promptly,
including the politically difficult and socially painful action of eliminating around 15,000
jobs. Completion of implementation, while still considered satisfactory, was delayed by
about five months (August rather than March 1996) due to delays associated with: (a) labor
shedding by the electric utility; (b) development of the legal framework, including the new
Commercial Code, Bankruptcy Code and Law on Public Enterprises; (c) completion of the
privatization program; (d) adoption of the Law on Denationalization and Restitution;
(e) approval of privatization plans for the SRP successor enterprises; (f) privatization of
Stopanska Banka; and (g) elimination of the arrears in social assistance and employment
fund payments. In the end, the Government had to request a waiver to the condition which



- 8 -
required adoption of the Law on Denationalization and Restitution. Based on satisfactory
overall completion of the FESAC program, the condition was waived.
29.   Although the reform program was designed with the help of the Bank, due to limited
institutional capacity in the country, there was clear ownership on the part of the
Government. The Government also took the initiative to put in place the temporary
institutional arrangements for the implementation of the SRP. The authorities understood
that the stabilization and structural reform measures supported by the ERL and the FESAC
were critical to turn around an economy that was suffering from the vestiges of the policies
and institutions of former Yugoslavia amid a very hostile external environment.
30.   The Government, while fully committed to the agreed principles, was unable, with
one exception, to follow through on the liquidation of unviable enterprises under the SRP.
Also due to lack of time, it was unable to assure the establishment of private governance for
Stopanska Banka.
F. Project Sustainability
31.   The reforms supported by the ERL and the FESAC have so far been successful in
stabilizing the economy. The basic legal, regulatory and institutional framework for the
workings of a market economy is now in place. Full fruition on these reforms will depend
on the Govemment's ability to stick to the agreed macroeconomic path and pursue the
various structural reforms to be supported by the SAL/C. Sustainability will, to some extent,
also depend on how quickly the economy begins to grow again.
G. Bank Performance
32.   The Bank's performance in the design and Supervision of the FESAC was satisfactory
overall. The Bank was able to mobilize PHRD (Japan) trust funds to cover the cost of
retaining the intemational consultants who carried out diagnostic studies of the SRP
enterprises prior to the launch of the program and identified the labor shedding measures
incorporated in the program. The Bank also recruited a long term consultant, also financed
by PHRD, to act as advisor to the Government for the implementation of the SRP. The
accompanying Social Reform and Technical Assistance Credit financed the contract with the
international consultant which provided the "shadow trustees" and "shadow managers" to
assist both the Govemment and the SRP enterprises in the implementation of the program.
The Bank, however, failed in consistently supervising the banking reforms.
33.  In the case of the reform program for Stopanska Banka, discrepancies between the
wording of the President's Report, that of the policy matrix annexed to the Report and that
of the Loan Agreement resulted in misunderstandings on the part of both Bank staff and the
Macedonian authorities as to what actions needed to be carried out prior to the release of the
second tranche. The Government's Program, as described in the President's Report, states
that "Privatization (defined as at least 51 percent of shares being in private hands, and
governance being controlled by private owners, with the board and management independent
of the Government and government-controlled entities) of the core STNB is also a condition



-9 -
of the Second Tranche."'" The policy matrix stated that release of the second tranche would
require "Core Stopanska [to be] fully recapitalized and privatized (51 percent), including
expected EBRD share, and private governance established."2 However, the Loan Agreement
required "Completion of privatization of Stopanska Banka with a Board of Directors and
management independent of the Borrower or any Agency of the Borrower,"3 The Borrower
held that the conditions in the Loan Agreement relating to second tranche release had been
fully met. The Bank took the position that the local private investors which held the majority
of Stopanska's shares were not capable of providing the type governance required since this
investor group was largely made up of the recently privatized enterprises which had founded
Stopanska. In the end, given the Government's sincere efforts at bringing in a foreign bank
as the controlling shareholder of Stopanska, the Bank agreed that the tranche release
conditions had been met.
H. Borrower's Performance
34.   The Borrower faithfully pursued the commitments made in the LDP, both in letter
and in spirit. The only commitments which proved impossible to follow through on were the
commitment to adopt a Law on Denationalization and Restitution (the delay was, in part, due
to the Bank's actions and adoption of the Law is now expected to take place in early 1997),
the commitment to close and liquidate unviable enterprises participating in the SRP program
(these will be dealt with by creditors and the new owners), the commitment to spin-off and
privatize non-core business units in the electric utility and the railways (these spin-offs will
be conditions under the proposed SAL/C) and the commitment to have private governance
established for Stopanska Banka (the Government is actively pursuing sale of a majority stake
in the bank to a foreign bank). Elsewhere, implementation of agreed actions was usually
timely and was pursued vigorously. Such commitment and ownership of the reform program
were remarkable considering the adverse conditions which prevailed during most of the
program, including the trade embargo with Yugoslavia, the closure of the Greek border and
the difficulties associated with laying off a large number of workers during a period of
extremely high unemployment.
35.   The Borrower was a willing client. Cooperation was excellent throughout preparation
and into implementation. The Borrower was convinced that the measures required by the
ERL and the FESAC were critical not only in laying the basis for economic recovery, but
also in achieving their political goal of recognition by the international community.
I. Assessment of the Outcome
36.   The FESAC's outcomes are only somewhat less than expected at appraisal. It greatly
advanced structural reform in the enterprise sector through privatization and the downsizing
and restructuring of the large politically sensitive loss-making enterprises. In the banking
sector, all banks are now privately owned, a prudential regulatory framework is in place and
1    President's Report, page 25, para. 85.
2     President's Report, Annex 2, page 3.
3     Schedule 3, para. 4 of the Loan Agreement.



- 10-
the central bank now has the power and institutional capacity to enforce the regulations.
Finally, all the main components of a social safety net are now in place. However, due to a
hostile external environment, the country continues to suffer declining output and increasing
unemployment. Sustainability of economic reforms will depend, to a large extent, on the
restoration of economic growth.
J. Future Operations
37.   The Bank's future operations in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia have
been planned against the backdrop of the country's efforts--sustained for three years now--at
stabilizing and transforming its economic system. In particular, it has successfully
implemented the stabilization measures and structural reforms supported by Fund programs
and Bank adjustment operations since 1994. As a result, there are indications that the steep
decline in output began to bottom out during 1996 as: (a) the traditional, more economic
transshipment routes were opened; (b) works began on several foreign-financed infrastructure
investments (power, telecommunications, Skopje airport rehabilitation, gas pipeline); and
(c) production began recovering in some industrial subsectors (leather and fur, beverages,
construction materials, electricity, transport equipment). However, with layoffs in
enterprises undergoing restructuring, unemployment continued to grow during 1996 and is
now nearly 25 percent of the economically active population.
38.   A major challenge facing the country in the medium term is to revive the economy
and stem the growing rate of unemployment. To meet this challenge, the Govemment is
pressing on with structural reforms in the enterprise, banking and social sectors. Also, given
the country's small domestic market, as well as its location and resource endowments, the
Government has rightly identified trade and agriculture as having major potential to
spearhead economic growth. It realizes, at the same time, that growth in these sectors is
impeded by serious policy and institutional deficiencies. It has, therefore, chosen to focus
the next stage of reforms on these sectors and the Bank has negotiated a SAL/C to support
implementation of trade and agricultural policy reforms and the extension of privatization to
socially-owned enterprises in agriculture.
39.   The current five-year lending strategy for the country proposes another three
adjustment operations beyond the SAL, with the most likely next operation, a Social Sector
Adjustment Credit (SSAC). Current thinking is that the planned SSAC would support:
(a) a social protection program to enable timely, adequate and fiscally affordable levels of
unemployment benefits, child allowances and social assistance payments, and to improve the
long-run solvency of the pension system; (b) a social services program to help improve the
quality of health and education services; and (c) reform of labor and employment legislation
to promote a flexible and competitive labor market. Other prospective adjustment operations
would aim to support a second round of financial sector reforms, structural changes in
forestry and land reform.
K. Key Lessons Learned
40.   The preparation and implementation of the FESAC have provided several key
lessons:



- 11 -
(a)   The design weakness of the ERL, i.e., leaving implementation of agreed
reforms to a "follow-up operation", the FESAC, made preparation of the
FESAC more difficult than it otherwise might have been. Preparation of
the FESAC was initially hamstrung by the unrealistic expectations on the part
of the Macedonian authorities generated by the ERL about the automaticity of
the "follow-up operation" and the type of actions that would suffice to enable
the Bank to provide further assistance. In hindsight, the ERL and the FESAC
should have been designed as a single two-tranche operation, to clearly
separate the two objectives, with the first tranche devoted to arrears clearance
and the second to supporting economic reforms.
(b)   When dealing with a new member state, the Bank needs to be very careful
about the signals it gives. The lesson described above underscores the need
for extra care in dealing with a new Bank member. Bank staff have to be very
careful about the signals given and, just as importantly, about how those
signals are received. In the long run, the quality of country relations depends
on the clarity of how Bank policies are explained by Bank staff and understood
by the Borrower.
(c)   When a country is committed to reforms, it will implement them with or
without conditionality. The ERL and the FESAC have demonstrated that
when a country is committed to reforms, necessary measures are implemented
whether or not they are covered by explicit conditionality. An example of this
was the adoption of the SRP Law.
(d)   Difficult and painful reforms can be implemented only with strong
political support. During the preparation of the FESAC, the Bank tried to
pursue implementation of the reform program as the basis for the first tranche
of the FESAC. Since there was already agreement in principle on these
reforms under the ERL, their implementation was the logical basis for the
FESAC conditionality. The Macedonian authorities, however, could not
deliver enough implementation progress to allow the Bank to proceed
immediately with the FESAC. Preparation of the FESAC had to be
interrupted accordingly. In retrospect, this inability to take action was due
more to the political constraints in an election year rather than to a lack of
commitment to reform. After elections, when the Government's mandate was
renewed by the electorate, implementation of the reform program was resumed
at full speed and the FESAC was quickly put in place.
(e)   Where institutions are weak, adjustment operations have to be
accompanied by technical assistance to ensure that the country has the
required expertise to implement agreed reforms. Although the interruption
in the implementation of reforms in late 1994 can be explained, to a large
extent, by the political constraints of an election year, to some extent it was
due to institutional weakness, as succeeding reform measures in the enterprise,
banking and social sectors became more technical and required more expertise.
With the help of PHRD funds from the Japanese Government, the Bank was
able to provide focussed and timely technical assistance to help the



- 12 -
Macedonian authorities in program design and implementation. Such
assistance, which was provided in parallel with the preparation of the FESAC,
was partly responsible for the acceleration in reform implementation, leading
to the early approval of the FESAC.
(t)   In spite of a government's best intentions, some measures prove to be too
politically difricult to implement. An example of this was the Government's
unwillingness to push loss-making enterprises into liquidation even when there
was clear evidence of their lack of viability. In the case of such enterprises,
the conditionality of the FESAC was too weak in that they could escape
closure and liquidation by entering the privatization process, thereby diverting
the already overloaded institutional capacity of the Privatization Agency away
from more productive activities.
(g)   To avoid misunderstandings concerning the necessary actions prior to
tranche release, it is extremely important to have consistency in wording
among the body of the President's report, the policy matrix and the Loan
Agreement. The Bank's failure to ensure consistency in the case of the
conditions related to Stopanska Banka caused a major misunderstanding.
From the Borrower's perspective it appeared that the Bank was questioning the
Government's sincerity about resolving the problems of Stopanska.



- 13 -
PART II. STAIISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 6:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 7:   Bank Resources: Missions
Table 8:   Matrix of Policy Measures



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                    5l            E]           El               Ol
Sector Policies                                 El  E        0              E
Financial Objectives               El            O           E] 
Institutional Development                       E] 0          0              E]
Physical Objectives                Ol           E            El
Poverty Reduction                 El            E            El
Gender Issues                      El           E            El
Other Social Objectives                           lEl                        El 
Environmental Objectives           O            E            El
Public Sector Management           U            E            E
Private Sector Development                      El           El              E
Other (specify)                   El            E              l             E
B. Project Sustainability           Likely               Unlikely            Uncertain
0                     E]                  El0
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                     U                                         El
Preparation Assistance             U                     ll                  E
Appraisal                          El ll                                     E
Supervision                        El                                        E l
D. Borrower Performance       Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                              El                  El
Implementation                    E                                          El
Covenant Compliance                E                                         El
Operation (if applicable)           l                    E                   E
E. Assessment of Outcome      Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
a                         El              ElO



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose            Year Approved             Status
Preceding Operations
1. ERL             reform of banking
enterprise and social
sectors
2.                   NOT APPLICABLE
Following Operations
1. FESAC           reform of banking,             1995           under implementation
enterprise and social
sectors
2. SRTAP           technical assistance for       1995           under implementation
labor redeployment
and pension reform
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                       Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                 03/94
Appraisal                                                                  01/95
Negotiations                                                            04/03/95
Letter of Development Policy                                            05/16/95
Board Presentation                              06/22/95                05/16/95
Signing                                                                 06/27/95
Effectiveness                                                           06/30/95
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                   06/30/95
Mid-term Review (if applicable)               not applicable        not applicable
Second (and third) Tranche Release (if        not applicable            10/18/96
applicable)
Loan Closing                                                            09/30/96



- 16 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thousand)
Appraisal                         Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year             Estimate          Actual1'    Percentage of
(US$ millions)                Estimate
1995                    42.50          nil                nil
1996                    85.0           40.1               50
1997                    85.0           80.0                n.a.
Date of Final Disbursement: October 18, 1996
1/ US$ amounts are at historical exchange rates.
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original         Revised
Agreement  Section    Type         Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment  Description of Covenant Comments
Date         Date
CREDIT        3.01,111      9        NC                                 Provides for progress
and related reports.
3.03, III     1         C                                 Provides for maintenance
of, Bank staff's access
to, and end-of-year
audits of, expenditures
financed out of loan.
LOAN         3.01, 111      9        NC                                 Provides for progress
review and related
reports.
3.03, III     1         C                                 Provides for maintenance
of, Bank staff's access
to, and end-of-year
audits of, expenditures
financed out of loan.
Covenant type:                                                                           Present Status
I =  Accounts/audits                  8 =  Indigenous people                            C = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue    9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting             CD   complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 = Project implementation not                   CP = complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1- 9                   NC = not complied with
funds                          11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 =  Counterpart finding                    budgetary or other resource
5 =  Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency    12    Sectoral or crossectoral
6 =  Environmental covenants                policy/regulatory/institutional
7 =  Involuntary resettlement               action
13 =  Other



- 17 -
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                       Actual
Stage of Project Cycle      Weeks       US$         Weeks         USS             Weeks        US$
Preparation to Appraisal        0.0      0.0         127.0           396.7         326.2        1,080.4
Appraisal                      39.5    156.3         27.4             92.9          26.4          147.4
Negotiations through Board      7.5    20.3           3.0              7.9           17.7          55.0
Approval
Supervision                    84.0   682.8          69.7            339.9          104.8         513.2
Completion                      4.0      12.4         4.0             12.4
Total                       135.0   871.8         228.1            849.8         484.4        1,796.0
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                          Rating 2          Types of
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization   Implementation Development Problems
Status     Objectives
Through Appraisal            09/94       2      10          E,F
12/94       4       6          E,F
01/95       4      10          E,F
Appraisal through Board      N.A.
Approval
Supervision                  10/95       3      13           E,F          S                S       F,T,M
3/96        4       6         E,F            S               S
6/96        4      11          E,F           S               S
Completion                   6/96        1      11           F            S                S       F,T,M
Total                                 16       38
1 - Specialization                       2 - Performance Rating             3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                       1 = Minor problems                F = Financial
E = Economist                             2 = Moderate Problems             T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                  3 = Major Problems                M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester



- 18 -
PART IH: BORROWER EVALUATION



- 19 -
REPUBLIC  MACEDONI-A
MINYSTY OF FINANCE
- Intermatioal Finance Department
14, Dame Gmrev St 91000 Skopje Republic of Macedonia
Fax Cover Sheet
DATE:    May 26, 1997
TO:     Mrs. Ellen Goldstein, Resident FROM:   Minister of Finance
Representaive
Re    mandve:l h                        Dr. Taki Fid
The World Bank Resident MsUsion in
Republic of Macedonia
PHONE:  117-159                         PHONE:  (389) 91 116-012
FAX:    117-627                         FAX.    (389)91 117-280
RE:      Comments on FinuIea and Entwrps Secor Adjusmvtet Crdit (Cr. 2721 - MK)
implgmetaflon Compleon Report
Number of pages including cover shot: I
Dear Mrs. Goldstein,
Forward to the receiving of the draft Implcmentation Completion Report (ICR)
for the Financil and Entepri  Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) we would liWe to
inform you that we do not have comments on it IL addition, we would like to say that the
ICR is satisfactory. Howevcr, there are some technical issues that need to be cleared,
-  page 4 - (b) (i) instead of number 1.100, the number of small, medium and
large socially owned enterprise should be 1.217.
* page 1S - we believe that there is a ping   stake   in Table 3, item "Second
(and third) Tranche Rease (if applicabler, because it is 100/1/96.
page 16 - we beleve that there is a pintig mistake in Table 4 in the year,
because it is 1197.
Looking forward to successfl ftzwe coopraion, I remain
Sincerely,
Minister of Finance
Dr. Taki FitQ



- 20 -
STATISTICAL ANNEXES



- 21 -
Table I
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
MAJOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INDICATORS
Est.
1992     1993     1994     1995      1996
Economic Indicators
(% annual change unless otherwise indicated)
Real GDP                                  -7.7     -8.4     -4.0      -1.4      1.1
Real per capita Consumption              -13.6     -3.9       0.1     -3.7      3.5
Export Volume, GNFS                        0.8    -18.5    -11.2    -16.4    -21.9
Import Volume, GNFS                      -13.9     -8.0     -3.4    -12.6      -7.0
Consumer Price Index                    1658.8    345.4    126.0      16.3      2.4
Ext.Current A/C, exc. grants (% of GDP)   -0.8     -0.5      -9.0     -7.5    -12.7
National Accounts
GDP at Constant Prices (million denars) La  12005    10996    10555    10407    10523
GDP at Current Prices (million denars)  12005    58145   123807   141971   147001
Gross Domestic Investment (% of GDP)      15.2     16.3      15.4     17.3     18.9
Gross Domestic Savings (% of GDP)         16.2     11.1       6.4      7.6      4.5
Extemal Debt
Outstanding Debt (US$ million) lb         776       863     1143     1275      1438
Debt Service Due (USS million)            301       252      289      470       170
Debt Service Paid (US$ million) /c        146       180      220       73       105
Outstanding Debt/GDP (%)                  33.0     34.4     40.0      34.2     39.2
Debt Service Due/Exports G&S (%)          23.9     22.0     22.8      33.4     15.6
Debt Service Paid/Exports G&S (%)         11.6     15.7      17.4      5.2      9.6
Fiscal Indicators
Gen. Gov't Revenue/GDP (h)               38.6     40.9      51.0     45.3     44.1
Gen. Gov't Expenditure/GDP (%)            48.2     54.5      54.2     46.2     44.8
Current Expenditure/GDP (%)             47.4     53.6     50.4      42.8     41.8
Capital Expenditure/GDP (%)              0.8      0.9      3.8       3.4      3.0
Population Growth                          0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8     C0 8
/a At 1992 prices.
/b Public and publicly-guaranteed debt, including IMF credits and short-termn debt.
/c Net of arrears and reschedulings.
Source: EC1 CO, FYR Macedonia: An Uodatina Economic Report; December 20, 1996.



- 22 -
Table 2
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1992-96
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Est.
1992     1993      1994      1995     1996
Exports, GNFS                    1259      1139      1258     1389      1059
Merchandise (FOB)              1199      1055     1086      1204       902
Non-factor Services              60        84      172       185       157
Imports, GNFS                    1236      1250     1600      1824      1656
Merchandise (FOB)              1206      1012     1272      1439      1340
Non-factor Services              30       238      328       385       316
Net Factor Income                  -72      -56       -94      -46       -49
Receipts                          1         5        9        20        30
Payments                         73        61      103        66        79
Net Private Current Transfers      30       155       179      200       180
Receipts                         77       238      360       456       465
Payments                         47        83      181       256       285
Current AC Balance before Grants   -19      -12     .257       -281     -466
Official Transfers (Grants)         0        28        44       27        50
Current A/C Balance after Grants  -19        16      -213     -254      -416
Capital Account Balance          -198      -147       114      -79       328
Direct Investment                 0         0       24        13        18
Net MLT Capital                -219      -191      -45      -301        16
Disbursements                   9         0      141       103      107
Repayments due /a             228       191      186       404       91
Other Capital                   -66       -53       36       165       284
Errors and Omissions             87        97       99        44        10
Overall Balance, financed by:     -217     -131       -99      -333      -88
Net Change in Foreign Assets /b  -62      -59       -30      -64        23
Gross Foreign Assets          -61       -59      -46      -101         9
Net IMF                        -1         0       16        37        14
Accumulation of New Arrears     155        72       69        71        32
Debt Reschedulings                0         0        0       326        33
Memorandum Item:
Gross Domestic Product          2353.9   2506.3   2859.3   3726.3   3665.8
/a of current maturities and arrears.
Ik Minus sign denotes an increase.
Source: ECICO, FYR Macedonia: An Updatina Economic Revort; December 20, 1996.



- 23 -
Table 3
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SUMMARY OF GENERAL GOVERNMENT /a OPERATIONS, 1992-96
Est.
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
(In million denars)
Total Revenue and Grants      4,639   23,767   63,157   64,253   64,857
Tax Revenue                   ....    ....  57,049   59,472   60,299
Nontax Revenue                ....    ....   6,108    3,997    3,985
Capital Revenue               ....    ....              122      440
Foreign Grants                ....    ....              662      133
Current Expenditure           5,691   31,163   62,348   60,771   61,449
Wages and Salaries            ....     ....  14,201   14,965   15,723
Other Goods and Services      ....    ....   5,516    6,969    5,515
Interest Expenses             ....    ....   5,161    2,783    3,530
Domestic                    ....    ....   2,055    1,978    2,031
Foreign                     ....    ....   3,106      805    1,499
Subsidies and Transfers       ....    ....  32,649   34,707   35,246
Other Current Spending        ....     ....   4,821    1,347    1,435
Current Budget Balance       -1,052   -7,396     809    3,360    2,968
Capital Expenditure            100      527    4,714    4,824    4,340
Overall Balance              -1,152   -7,923   -3,905   -1,342    -932
(In Percent of GDP)
Total Revenue and Grants       38.6    40.9    51.0    45.3    44.1
Current Expenditure            47.4    53.6    50.4    42.8    41.8
Current Budget Balance         -8.8   -12.7      0.7      2.4      2.0
Capital Expenditure             0.8     0.9      3.8      3.4      3.0
Overall Balance                -9.6   -13.6    -3.2    -0.9    -0.6
/a General govemment includes central govemment and the extrabudgetary funds,
mainly the pension, health and unemployment funds.
.... means details not available.
Source: EC1 CO, FYR Macedonia: An Uodatina Economic Report; December 20, 1996.






IBRD 25501 R
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                               &-Q    
r + \ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC
(SERBIA/MONTENEGIRO                                               tr                                   _!                                                                             F
\. X \7 t t>N-c-v- ~~~~:1* PK-.Tka Kyuslni 
g \. .>'J S Vratnic~~~~~Bo                                                        \ ce                                           4no r;   ( Mcijor cities
*   -~~~~ JeguEiovse/j=>t'v\>\   (  \ (              2r          _                      (                                   *        SelecterS cities~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selcte  ciie
]    ! *5sh-tX   - t\4                             |          owi e                      i>\t-t i4~~~~~~~~~~~~w0V                ||                         Primaryroads|
i. w27Sn  Goslivcr,'/ X   j      ~~~~K i t k c,Ot/                                                                                                                       kEeriec railroads
'   /  V             ,:4               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G o  e  s n i c a ria  _),h    P                                             X        4||+Arot
\X;,  f  q  Mrvrovsko  , (p  Jl /   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S\   \~~~~~<t  .                         5            \                     s_ \ ~~~~~~~~~ Riverser
t f tO S k JX-X e > 17 ( \. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International boundaries
,   0 ^.~~ Loke    ^   ,_  ,_,    4!l ~~ '  t  !    o    ,                                                                                              (SLOVAK Rr,t, k  0s          MKR ILESy  v
U6r.zrd~                                       O ,_,  \w' d.W,ry  II. pd d Th. Wdd. i-k G-p
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                      J             )                i           .y Ld- -. it.rir9i  , _ ak -y O.,,y  i -d2So"X - -FEDRP5*.'
s                                        f                            Kolpos ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                   AUGUST 199d~~~~~~~~~~ASTI









IMAGING
Report No.:         16648
Type:      ICR



