Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ON'L
Report No. P-6539-MK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 54.7 MILLION
TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
April 19, 1995
FILE COPYI
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofMicial duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
US$1.00 = MKD 40.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNT         -     Bank for Foreign Trade
BRA         -     Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CMEA        -     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD        -     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERL         -     Economic Recovery Loan and Credit
FESAC       -     Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
FX          -     Foreign Exchange
FYR         -     Former Yugoslav Republic
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
IMF         -     International Monetary Fund
IMWG        -     Interministerial Working Group
LDP         -     Letter of Development Policy
LRF         -     Labor Redeployment Fund
MKD         -     Macedonian Denar
NBM         -     National Bank of Macedonia
PA          -     Privatization Agency
PF          -     Pension Fund
PSEP        -     Protection of the Socially Endangered Population
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
SOK         -     Social Accounting Office
SRP         -     Special Restructuring Program
STB         -     Stopanska Banka
TA          -      Technical Assistance
USAID       -     United States Agency for Intemational Development
FYR of MACEDONIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Formner Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYR of Macedonia).
Amount:            SDR 54.7 million (US$85 million equivalent).
Terms:             35 years, including a 10-year grace period.
Description:       The proposed Credit would provide balance of payments support to the
Government to help it pursue its stabilization and structural reform
program in face of a difficult external environment. This operation
would support implementation of major reforms in the enterprise and
banking sectors, accompanied by a social safety net program, and help
restore the country's creditworthiness by assisting in the arrears
clearing process of the country's debt to preferred creditors started
under the Economic Recovery Loan and Credit (ERL).
Benefits
and Risks:         Enterprise adjustment would cut loss-making in-the economy and allow
enterprises to respond to the new market conditions of the country.
Banking reforms would address the financial distress of the banking
system and provide the basis for building a sound and efficient financial
intermediation system. Economic stability and growth would enhance
the political future of the country. Continuation of the arrears clearing
process would help the country achieve creditworthiness and gain
access to external finance.
The risks are high. The external environment continues to be hostile
with the war in Serbia, and tensions with Albania and Bulgaria.
Greece's February 16, 1994 decision to cut-off the southern border of
the country closed the country's only remaining railway link to the
outside world. These external shocks could delay recovery and impose
a larger cost on the economy, stymieing implementation of stabilization
and structural reforms. Domestic tensions brought about by the
economic recession and increasing unemployment might weaken the
resolve to continue with the reform program. Yet, the Government is
aware that its options are limited. It will not easily abandon the one
that it is pursuing today since the alternative could be political and
economic collapse.
Poverty Category: Poverty-focussed; limited to social assistance and social insurance
conditions.
Estinated
Disbursements:    The credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches against general
imports, subject to customary exclusions. All funds are expected to be
disbursed by March 31, 1996.
This document has a restricied disuibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION .............................................. 1
HI.    THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR .                         .....................................  2
A.       Crisis in the Enterprise Sector .................................   2
B.       Enterprise Reform  Strategy  ...................................   3
MII. THE BANKING SECTOR ......................                                                                         8
A.       Overview  of the Financial Sector  ...............................   8
B.       Major Problems of the Banking Sector ...........................    11
C.       Recent Banking Reforms  ...................................    12
IV.      THE SOCLAL SAFETY  NET  ...........                            ..........................    14
A.       Labor Redeployment .               .....................................    14
B.       Social Assistance  .          .......................................    16
C.   Social Insurance ..........................................  17
V.       THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM                           ...............             .................    19
A.       Overall Approach  .           .......................................    19
B.   Privatization ............................................ 20
C.       Adjustment Program  for Politically Sensitive Enterprises  ...............   21
D.       Banking Reforms  .            .......................................   24
E.       Social Safety Net  .          .......................................   26
F.       Budgetary Cost of the Program   ...............................   29
Table 1: Budgetary Cost of the Program  .........................   29
VI.  THE PROPOSED IDA CREDIT ................................ 30
A.       Rationale for IDA Involvement  ...............................                                     30
B.       Conditions for Board Presentation and the Second Tranche  ..............   30
C.       Credit Administration   ...........                   ..........................   31
D.   Benefits and Risks . ....................................... 32
VII. RECOMMENDATION .......................................... 33
ANNEX  1    -  Letter of Development Policy ............................  34
ANNEX  2    -  Policy Matrix   ...........                       ..........................  49
ANNEX  3    -  Status of Compliance with ERL Conditions  ................... 53
Schedule B    -  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ............... 57
Schedule C    -  Timetable of Key Processing Events   ....................... 58
Schedule D    -  Status of Bank Group Operations in FYR of Macedonia  ....                         ....... 59
MAP             - IBRD 25501






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 54.7 MILLION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) to the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia (FYR of Macedonia)1' in support of a program of reforms to restructure the
economy. The proposed Credit in the amount of SDR 54.7 million (US$85 million
equivalent) would be made to FYR of Macedonia through the Ministry of Finance. The
Credit would be for 35 years, including a 10-year grace period.
2.          FESAC would help the Government pursue its stabilization and structural
reform program in a difficult extemal environment, the latest shock being brought about by
the decision of Greece on February 16, 1994 to close the last remaining railway link of the
country to the outside world through the port of Salonika. This operation would support
implementation of major reforms in the enterprise, banking and social sectors, and help
restore the country's creditworthiness by assisting in the arrears clearing process of the
country's debt to preferred creditors started under the Economic Recovery Loan and Credit
(ERL).
3.          The Government aims to reform the enterprise and banking sectors principally
through privatization and private sector development. The Government considers that private
owners and managers have better incentives and, therefore, are the best agents to restructure
and organize enterprises and banks to respond efficiently to the new market realities faced by
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. However, because the largest enterprises and
the two largest banks are in distress, and the new private sector, while growing rapidly, is
still small, other forms of passive restructuring, principally liquidation and downsizing, are
being pursued to cut cash losses in the economy permanently and enable the stabilization
program to hold. Targeted labor adjustment measures and support services are being put in
place to ease the social trauma that accompany widespread enterprise privatization and
restructuring.
4.          This report is organized as follows. An analysis of the problems of the
enterprise, banking and social sectors, the overall strategy to address these problems and
measures taken so far are discussed in Sections II - IV. The structural reform measures
supported by FESAC are laid out in Section V. Section VI explains the Bank's assistance
strategy and the conditions of the proposed Credit. Recent political developments, the
macroeconomic program, the financing plan and the country's creditworthiness are discussed
in the Country Assistance Strategy Statement accompanying this report.
The designation 'the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' (FYR of Macedonia) is being used
provisionally until a name is agreed with the Bank.



- 2 -
II. THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Crisis in the Enterprise Sector
5.           Background. The past performance and current condition of the enterprise
sector in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia stem, to a large extent, from the
Yugoslav experiment with "market socialism", whose most notable features were social
ownership of capital and management by workers. Enterprise governance was vested in
worker councils and all important business decisions, including the selection of managers,
were made by these councils. Since capital was owned by society at large, there was no
effective advocate for its preservation and growth. The primordial concern was employment
and wages, resulting in the de-capitalization of unprofitable enterprises. Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia inherited an enterprise sector in a deep crisis.
6.           Recent Performance. With the collapse of export markets in the former
CMEA area, and the loss of "domestic" markets following the dissolution of Yugoslavia, and
the imposition of international sanctions on Serbia, enterprise performance deteriorated
rapidly. There was a further significant deterioration in performance in 1993, as real wages
rose by 29 percent, despite a further drop in output. Almost half of socially-owned and
mixed ownership enterprises- were incurring losses. The fall in output has been deep and
broad-based particularly in the industrial, agricultural and trade sectors. Within industry,
metals, metal-processing, textiles and construction have been particularly severely hit. So
far, there is no sign of a levelling off in the fall in output, which fell by another 10.5 percent
in 1994 on top of the annual decline of 15 percent in both 1992 and 1993.
7.           Perverse incentives inherent in social ownership abetted by soft budgets have
prevented a large number of the socially-owned and mixed-ownership enterprises from
adjusting to the collapse of the traditional markets and to new competitive forces. This
failure has contributed to the escalation of enterprise losses. During 1992, total accounting
losses incurred by 3,688 enterprises were equivalent to 8.6 percent of GSP. The 20 top loss-
making enterprises accounted for 84 percent of total losses of the enterprise sector. Given
the worsened economic situation in 1993, total losses were much greater at 16.3 percent of
GSP, involving 8,000 enterprises and 135,000 employees.
8.           Structure. Although the private sector is gradually becoming more important
in terms of contribution to output, the economy is still dominated by socially-owned and
mixed-ownership enterprises, accounting for 75 percent of output in 1993. As of March
1995, of the 72,000 registered enterprises, some 69,000 were private, although only about
17,000 - 18,000 were active. While most of the enterprises, especially in the private sector,
are in trade and services, most revenues are generated in the industrial sector by socially-
owned and mixed-ownership enterprises. Industrial production has been concentrated in five
product groups: textiles, footwear, iron and steel, tobacco, and non-ferrous metals.
2'  Mixed-ownership enterprises are firms partially owned by employees through 'internal shares distributed
under a previous privatization program (para 15).



- 3 -
B. Enterprise Reform Strategy
9.          The Government's strategy for enterprise reform centers on privatization and
private sector development. The Government believes that the perverse incentives inherent
in social ownership are best reversed by privatization. Private owners and managers can
tackle the problem of overstaffing in enterprises better, once labor regulations are made
supportive of reforms and an adequate safety net is put in place. Private entrepreneurs,
together with their financiers, can best adjust operations to the permanent, as well as the
temporary, market changes facing the country. Accordingly, the Government has introduced
changes in the policy regime to enable implementation of this strategy.
10.         A privatization law governing the privatization of approximately 1,200
enterprises has been passed. A privatization agency (PA) has been established to implement
the law. During the past year, the Government has focussed on validating the internal share
privatization cases under the previous privatization program, and receiving and reviewing
privatization cases filed by enterprises for management and employee buyouts under the new
privatization program. Validation of all privatization cases under the old program has been
completed. Ninety-six enterprises have been privatized under the new program. The
Government expects the pace of implementation to accelerate as experience is gained and
procedures are simplified further.
11.         In parallel, over the past year, the Government has been putting in place the
essential elements of the legal and regulatory framework for the enterprise sector in a way
that would promote private sector development in a modern market economy. Parliament's
approval has been secured for legislation on securities, foreign investment, foreign exchange
activities, external credit relations, customs, concessions, banks and savings institutions,
accounting and financial activities. Substantial progress has been made in implementing
much of this legislation, although the pace of implementation could be speeded up by
increasing institutional capacity. Moreover, there remain some major pieces of legislation
still missing, such as a modem bankruptcy law, a new commercial code, a law on public
enterprises (principally utilities) and a law on denationalization and restitution. Satisfactory
drafts of the commercial code and the law on denationalization and restitution have been
submitted to Parliament and are expected to be in place by October 1995. Drafting of a new
bankruptcy law and revisions to a draft law on public enterprises are being undertaken with
the International Development Association's (IDA) assistance. By the Second Tranche. the
new commercial code and the law on denationalization and restitution are to be in place.
Submission to Parliament of the final drafts of the bankruptcy law and the law on public
enterprises. satisfactory to the IDA. is also a condition of the Second Tranche.
Private Sector Development
12.         In former Yugoslavia, establishment of small-scale private businesses
(employing fewer than five employees) was allowed beginning in the early 1980s, and many
of these have now expanded sales and employment. It is the current policy of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to expand the scope of private enterprise. There is an
encouraging absence of government restrictions on private businesses. It is very easy for an
entrepreneur to register a new business and to start operating. This policy environment has



- 4 -
resulted in a ten-fold growth of private enterprises from 5,800 registered in 1990 to 69,000
in 1994. Official statistics suggest that only 17,000 - 18,000 enterprises are active, but it is
probable that many more are operating on an unrecorded basis. Most private activity,
however, is in trading, considering the opportunities presented by the disruption of formal
trade caused by the embargoes, the lower risk and smaller capital required, the quick return,
and the tradition of trading among the people.
13.         Nonetheless, there appear to be areas where improvements in the environment
for private sector activities could be made, especially in terms of promoting manufacturing
activities and larger companies. Due to inadequate financial disclosure, caused by the lack of
acceptable accounting and auditing standards, expansion of enterprises through debt and
equity financing beyond the informal financial market is difficult. The Government is
working on bringing accounting and auditing principles and practices to the level of
international standards. At the same time, bank finance, especially of longer maturities, is
inadequate due to a lack of satisfactory real estate collateral because of the land ownership
issue (para 14), and a crowding out by the socially-owned sector. The latter is being
addressed through the hard budget constraint being imposed on socially-owned enterprises
(para 22-25).
14.         The legal framework for land ownership for business premises, as well as for
purposes of loan collateral remains an issue. Under existing law, no physical or legal person
can own land in urban areas, instead only rights of use are issued. Rights of use cannot be
transferred or assigned to a third party; land can only be retumed to the State. Thus, there
is no secondary market for leaseholds, constraining market allocation of land to more
efficient economic uses. The Govemment has requested IDA's technical assistance to
develop the legislation that would promote a market for leaseholds, as it tries to achieve a
political consensus on the broader, highly sensitive issue of land ownership. In the
meantime, the needs of the private sector are being adequately met by the program for
enterprise and business premises privatization. Under the latter scheme, the Government is
selling about 150,000 square meters of business premises through the frozen foreign currency
deposits scheme (para 20). The Government intends to sell all business premises without
legal encumbrances by the end of 1995. Legal encumbrances on the rest are to be resolved
during 1995 and completion of the scheme is expected in 1996. In compliance with a
condition of Board presentation. the Government has started to implement the program for
the sale of Government-owned business premises to the private sector. By Second Tranche.
all business premises without legal encumbrances (100.000 square meters) will have been
offered for sale to the private sector according to procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Privatization
15.         Background. Socially-owned and mixed-ownership enterprises in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia comprise 1,856 enterprises (1019 socially-owned and 837
mixed-ownership) employing 324,000 workers, primarily in the trade, construction,
agriculture, and textile sectors. In an attempt to address the shortcomings of social
ownership, former Yugoslavia introduced legislation in 1989 (the Law on Social Capital) for
the transformation of social ownership. Implementation of this law was left to the republics,
and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia partially or fully "privatized" about 440



- 5 -
enterprises under this legislation by allowing employees to buy "internal shares". However,
implementation of this program was not well regulated and led to abuses. For example,
many employees purchased shares with untaxed bonuses. As a consequence, the Government
stopped all privatization under this law and instructed the Social Accounting Office (SOK) to
review the privatization on a case-by-case basis to identify irregularities and to take
corrective action.
16.           New Program. The current privatization program is governed by the Law for
Transformation of Socially-Owned Enterprises (the Privatization Law), approved in June
1993. The Government has targeted about 1,200 enterprises for privatization under the law,
about half of which are socially-owned, and the other half mixed ownership enterprises.Y
Of the enterprises targeted for privatization, 100 are large, 263 are medium and 837 are
small,4' representing 75 percent of employment and over 50 percent of assetsY  Most
enterprises included in the program are small enterprises, representing only 5 percent of
assets. There are 100 large enterprises slated for privatization, which represent 33 percent of
assets. Banks, monopolies (largely confined to public utilities) and cooperatives -- a total of
450 enterprises -- are not subject to the privatization law.°' The Government intends to
complete the program by the end of 1996.
17.           The Government's privatization program is based on a case-by-case approach,
whereby each enterprise proposes to the PA a transformation plan, which includes the
proposed method of privatization, a valuation, a report from the SOK (if the enterprise was
previously privatized under the Law on Social Capital), financial statements, and records of
ownership. Once cleared by the PA, the plans must be approved by the Privatization
Commission. Because the law places responsibility for the development of the
transformation plan on an enterprise, it essentially allows enterprise managers and employees
the right to choose the method of privatization to be used. Enterprise managers and
employees, therefore, effectively have the option to purchase an enterprise themselves
through a management/employee buyout. The law requires majority private ownership to be
attained, but allows new owners to take immediate control while paying for shares in
installments over several years. Furthermore, the law requires that enterprises be valuated
2   Based on SOK data, there were supposed to be about 1500 enterprises included in the program. But after further
review by the Privatization Agency, about 200 small enterprises were found to be already fully private while
another 100 were counted twice.
4'  According to the Law for Transformation, small enterprises are defined as those which meet at least two of the
following criteria: (i) less than 50 employees; (ii) annual corporate income of less than 8000 times the average
monthly wage in the economy; and (iii) average assets of less than 6000 times the average monthly wage in
the economy. For medium enterprises the criteria are: (i) less than 250 employees; (ii) corporate income less
than 40,000 times average monthly wage in the economy; and (iii) assets of less than 30,000 times the average
monthly wage in the economy. All others are defined as large enterprises.
The relatively small percentage of assets scheduled for privatization derives from the fact that monopolies,
which are excluded from the program, represent 39 percent of assets, due to their high capital-intensity
(railways, telecommunications, electricity, etc.).
V Banks will be privatized in the context of the bank restructuring program. Some monopolies and cooperatives
will be privatized under a future program, with separate legislation.



by licensed valuators to set the price insiders have to pay for an enterprise, and that the
validity of internal share case privatization be ruled upon after a case-by-case review by the
SOK. Since these preliminary requirements are time-consuming, socially-owned small and
medium enterprises were given until December 10, 1994 to present privatization plans;
socially-owned large enterprises have until December 10, 1995. Mixed ownership
enterprises have until June 28, 1995.
18.         The PA is authorized to define the method and timetable for the privatization
of enterprises for which no privatization plan is received by the PA when the deadlines for
insider privatization expire. The PA intends to privatize the enterprises primarily through
auctions, private placements and liquidations. Residual shares (i.e., minority stakes
remaining after insiders have purchased at least 51 percent of the share capital), can be
auctioned by the PA without minimum auction prices, as these are already shares of private
enterprises and are, therefore, outside the purview of the provision of the law requiring
minimum auction prices for shares in socially owned or mixed ownership enterprises. For
shares in enterprises that are not yet majority private, the original valuation price continues
to be the minimum auction price, but reductions in the price will be allowed in subsequent
rounds of auctions.
19.         Proceeds are to be distributed between the PA, the pension fund and the
Government. The PA will retain a portion to cover its operating expenses. Because private
domestic investors are seen to have limited capital, the pension fund's share of 15 percent
will be distributed in shares (preferred, non-voting stocks with a fixed 2 percent dividend)
rather than in cash for an enterprise sold as a going concern. In the event of asset sales, the
pension fund will receive 15 percent of the cash proceeds. The residual of proceeds will be
used by the Government for employment assistance to employees discharged as a result of
transformation (para 28).
20.          The privatization law also allows the use of frozen foreign exchange deposits
toward the purchase of enterprise shares, housing and business premises (para 14). The
Government recognizes the potentially important role these deposits can play in absorbing the
large volume of assets which will be offered in the program, while, at the same time,
extinguishing claims on the Government created by its assumption of these deposit liabilities.
Pursuant to the privatization law, a Government decree that lays down the rules and
regulations for the swap of frozen foreign currency deposits for shares and other socially-
owned assets was issued in December 1994, and the scheme is now operative. This decree
permits accounts to be sold -- through participating banks --and transferred to other accounts
(to allow for accumulation by strategic investors). Certificates issued to depositors are
generic (i.e., they can be applied toward the purchase of shares in any enterprise and the
purchase of business premises), but are restricted to exchange for shares or assets targeted
for privatizaton (to prevent the creation of quasi money).
21.          The privatization law includes measures to protect the interests of former
owners of socially-owned enterprises by requiring all enterprises to publish notice of their
transformation plans and calling for former owners (or their legal successors) to declare their
claims, which must be registered within 60 days of the announcement. The enterprise will
transfer shares to the PA for the amount claimed, and the PA will hold these shares on



behalf of the claimant until a more permanent solution is established under a Law on
Denationalization and Restitution, which is expected to be enacted by Parliament in late
1995.
Hard Budget Constraint on Enterprises
22.         While in the medium term, the solution to the crisis in the socially-owned
enterprise sector is seen as privatization, in the short term, the Government's program is to
force enterprises to restructure by removing the accommodation of enterprise losses through
the banking system. Even if the Government wished to continue such accommodations, the
scale of losses is now so great that such a policy is untenable, and the Government
acknowledges that such recourse to the banking system would undercut its attempts to
stabilize the economy.
23.         Therefore, the Government program requires that, except for politically
sensitive enterprises (paras 26-28), all enterprises are to be subjected to a hard budget
constraint. This means that their continued existence must be based on their viability as
judged by owners and creditors, not by government, and that their ability to secure resources
for continued operation will depend solely on their own cash flow and their borrowing from
banks based on their commercial viability and creditworthiness. Thus, there would be no
govemment subsidies or bailouts.
24.         Accordingly, rediscounts from the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM) which
had been the customary way of financing enterprise losses, were abolished as of March 1994.
The Government also stopped providing guarantees for bank loans to enterprises as of
October 31, 1994. By closing the second biggest bank in December 1993, the central bank
demonstrated its intention of not bailing out bad banks. The only remaining potential source
of bad loans, through its ability to generate quasi fiscal deficits because of its size, is
Stopanska Banka (STB). This bank will be broken up and privatized under FESAC (paras
83-86).
25.         Maintenance of the Government's position has been made politically more
difficult by the embargoes on trade to the north and the south; enterprises are demanding
relief from the government, directly or through bank credits, by arguing that their problems
are 'temporary." The Government recognizes that it is not able to judge which enterprises
face temporary, and which permanent, difficulties and is, therefore, not sympathetic to such
representations, especially since it has insufficient resources to provide assistance even in
legitimate cases. This policy is spelled out in the Government's Letter of Development
Polic (LDP).



- 8 -
Adjustment Program for Politically Sensitive Enterprises
26.         There are, however, large enterprises making cash losses, that the Government
cannot close down immediately for non-economic reasons. Until recently, these enterprises
were able to finance their losses with bank loans. In order for banking reforms to succeed
and the hard budget constraint on all other enterprises to be credible, these so-called
"politically sensitive enterprises" have to be isolated from the banking system and treated
under a different, but transparent set of rules with a time-bound program. For this purpose,
the Government established a Task Force to coordinate and facilitate a Special Restructuring
Program (SRP) for 25 large loss-makers, accounting, in 1993, for losses of about 13 percent
of GDP, or more than 80 percent of the total losses of the enterprise sector, and over
60 percent of the bad debts of the banking system.
27.         At the Government's request, IDA provided technical assistance financed with
grant funds to help design the program. In May 1994, IDA organized a seminar for the
25 enterprises to explain the program to enterprise managers, their bankers and concerned
government officials and define the content of the action plans to be prepared by each
enterprise. International consultants were mobilized with technical assistance funds to help
each enterprise identify cost-cutting measures, including labor shedding, and determine if
implementation of these measures would be sufficient to permit the enterprise to generate a
positive operating cash flow. Action plans for all enterprises have been completed and
presented to the enterprises and the Government.
28.         To enable implementation of the SRP, which require drastic measures, the
Parliament enacted a special law on January 17, 1995, empowering the Government to
implement draconian measures that would either privatize or liquidate these enterprises
(and, in the case of the two utilities in the program, allow them to generate a positive cash
flow) by the end of 1995. Institutional arrangements for the program have been agreed with
the Government, and IDA is again providing technical assistance to help implement the
program (para 68-81). In parallel, the Government has provided funds in the 1995 budget to
pay for the severance payments and unemployment compensation of all workers laid-off due
to redundancy. Under the proposed IDA-financed Social Reform Project, support services in
job placement, training, small business development and counselling will be provided.
III. THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Overview of the Financial Sector
29.         Former Yugoslavia, unlike most centrally planned economies, had separated
commercial banks from the central bank in the 1960s, and the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia inherited a banking system which, despite its share of major problems, was
recognizably similar to that of market economies. The central bank, the NBM, was part of
the Yugoslav central banking system. Banks dominate the financial system, with many but
very small non-bank institutions. Former Yugoslavia was well banked with most of the
public having access to a nearby bank branch. The payments system for enterprises is run



- 9 -
by the Bureau of Payments (formerly the Social Accounting Office) rather than by banks and
functions well with cheques and payment orders being used widely and cleared quickly.
30.         The banking sector in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has
historically had two key characteristics which today constitute the main obstacles to its
transition to a competitive, market-oriented system: market dominance by the biggest bank,
STB. and interlocldng relationship between bank owners and borrowers. Although STB's
dominance took different forms over time (at some times, as a monolithic bank, and at
others, as some sort of a holding company of autonomous branches or "basic banks"), it was
motivated by the exigencies of central planning, whereby banks were to pool savings for use
by the central planning authorities, i.e., dominance aided centralization.
31.        Interlocking relationship had its origin in the absence of the concept of equity
or risk capital in banking until the late 1970s. The State owned the banks and corporate
guidance was provided by boards represented by large bank borrowers. Thus, the main
concern of these boards was credit distribution. Since there was no equity capital, its
preservation and growth were not relevant concems. The notion of equity capital was
introduced in the banking reform of 1978, but its introduction did not change corporate
governance. On the contrary, bank borrowers who were already sitting in bank boards were
merely required to pay-in the needed capital, thereby institutionalizing interlocking
relationships and heightening the conflict of interest between borrowers and owners.
Banking reform measures under FESAC will focus on addressing these obstacles.
32.         The National Bank of Macedonia. In April 1992, following the enactment of
the National Bank Act, NBM was established as the country's central bank, independent of
the Government and responsible to the Parliament which appoints the Governor and the eight
other Board members for a seven-year term. The National Bank Act mandates NBM to be
responsible for the stability of the national currency, the regulation of money supply and the
supervision of the banking sector. NBM has begun to issue regulations and instructions to
banks in pursuance of monetary management and bank supervision. But it is hampered by
market concentration, with the biggest bank suffering from liquidity problems, insolvency of
the banking system as a whole, and lack of proper governance of banks. It also suffers from
institutional weaknesses, but it is receiving technical assistance from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
other donors to improve its organizational structure, monetary operations, banking regulation
and supervision, bank reporting and accounting, and information technology.
33.         Commercial Banks. Banks are of the universal type and may invest in equity
as well. Currently, there are 25 banks, of which 15 were established only after
independence. Of the new banks, ten are private banks, of which six were established by
local investors and four, as joint-ventures between local investors and foreign banks from
Australia, Austria, and Bulgaria (2). While still small, these banks appear, in general, to be
independent, market-oriented institutions, which could be nurtured to become efficient and
sound banks through internal growth or mergers and acquisitions. The five other banks were
established by large state-owned trading companies or industrial concerns and are typically a
one-client-one-owner bank. These banks seem to suffer from the historical Yugoslav banking
problem of interlocking interests. The central bank will have to review the ownership



- 10 -
structure of these banks, especially when the deadline for capital increase and re-licensing in
May 1995 arrives, and ensure that this problem is addressed through ownership
restructuring, possibly through mergers. All new banks have now opened for business, but
still account for only a small fraction of the stock of banking assets. Of the old banks, four
banks account for most of banking assets, namely Stopanska Banka (65 percent), Banka za
Nadvoresna Trgovina (Bank for Foreign Trade, 15 percent), Komercijalna Banka
(12 percent) and Ljubljanska Makedonska Banka (5 percent).
34.         Stopanska Banka, the oldest and largest bank, is insolvent and is experiencing
bouts of illiquidity from time to time. It has the widest geographic coverage with
24 branches, employs 2,500 employees and controls about 53 percent of deposits. In many
parts of the country Stopanska has the only branch. It has a big exposure to large loss-
making enterprises, which are also its main shareholders. Stopanska was used by former
governments as the main channel of funds to ailing heavy industries and to the rural and
agricultural sectors. As a consequence, it has a very poor portfolio and currently collects
only about a fourth of interest and principal due.
35.         The Bank for Foreign Trade (BNT), a former affiliate of Jugobanka that was
established 40 years ago as an export-import bank, was reincorporated at the beginning of
1993 and is now owned by 132 Macedonian enterprises, which are also its main borrowers.
It has 24 branches and 600 staff members, and manages 23 percent of the sector's deposits.
Its lending portfolio is concentrated in the textile sector and is largely impaired. Its
operational capabilities are also very limited since, until 1993, most of its operations were
managed directly by its mother bank. Due to insolvency and illiquidity, it was ordered by
the central bank to cease operations in December 1993.
36.         Komercijalna Banka was a former branch or "basic bank' of Stopanska Banka
in Skopje. Its management succeeded in hiving off this branch from Stopanska,
reincorporating it as an independent joint-stock company in January 1990. Its capital is
widely spread among 3,000 shareholders, with the private sector holding a majority. With
35 branches, it has attracted around 16 percent of the deposits of the banking sector.
Ljubljanska Makedonska Banka was the former local affiliate of a bank headquartered in
Slovenia. It is now owned by this bank with 51 percent ownership and by 80 Macedonian
shareholders with 49 percent. It has 14 branches, a workforce of 300, and manages
8 percent of the deposits of the banking sector. These two banks have a much sounder loan
portfolio, stronger governance and better operational capabilities than the two larger ones.
37.         Non-Banks. Besides commercial banks, there is a large number of other
financial institutions, the most important ones being the Post Office Savings Bank, the
national insurance company, and the pension funds. Their financial assets and their role in
the financial sector, however, remain very limited. Capital markets are still not existent; the
only existing securities are the non-tradable bonds issued by NBM that bear a below-market
interest rate and that are compulsorily held by the commercial banks. The bond and equity
markets are, however, expected to start emerging in the near future, following the enactment
of regulations pursuant to the new Securities Law, and the implementation of the
privatization program.



- 11 -
B. Major Problems of the Banking Sector
38.         Market Dominance by Stopanska Banka. With 97 percent of the banking
system concentrated in four banks and the largest bank, Stopanska Banka, accounting for
65 percent of banking assets, the system is exceedingly concentrated. Even after removing
the frozen foreign exchange deposits and foreign loans from balance sheets (para 41-42), the
four main banks account for 95 percent and Stopanska, 55 percent of the banking sector.
Stopanska is considered by the authorities to be too large to be allowed to fail, epitomizing
the moral hazard problem in the banking sector. In many parts of the country, only
Stopanska provides banking services to the public, and its closure could jeopardize the retail
payments system and affect the enterprise payments system handled by the Bureau of
Payments. It handles most of the financing needs of the agricultural sector. Leaving aside
its portfolio problems, Stopanska, as a whole, would also be difficult to sell to local investors
because of the amount of capital required.
39.         Interlocking Interests between Bank Owners and Borrowers. Before
Yugoslavia's breakup, borrower enterprises' control of banks was identified as a major
problem which began to be corrected in the 1988 banking reforms. Banks were converted
from being service entities into joint stock companies and changes were made to instill credit
discipline in lending. Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia continued these reforms after
independence, and the 1993 Banking and Savings Institutions Act prohibits net debtors of a
bank from exercising any ownership function notwithstanding the bank shares they hold.
This Act superseded any provisions in the banks' articles of association and became effective,
as soon as the law was enacted in May 1993.
40.         On their own initiative, the smaller banks have started to implement this
reform by removing large defaulters from their boards and diversifying ownership through
capital increase. Effective enforcement of prudential regulations on connected lending will
help control this risk. In compliance with a Board condition, the NBM has issued prudential
regulations governing connected lending that are satisfactory to IDA. The proposed
restructuring and privatization of Stopanska Banka and the liquidation of BNT under FESAC
will resolve this problem in these banks. Non-performing loans and frozen foreign currency
deposits will be removed from the balance sheet of Stopanska, wiping out the equity of the
current owners. This financial restructuring, however, will be followed immediately with
break-up and privatization to end Stopanska's market dominance, and to achieve a change in
governance (para 83-86).
41.         The Stock Problem. The distress of the banking sector originates from three
sources. The first arises from household foreign exchange deposits, their counterparts being
the banks' foreign exchange deposits with NBM, which, in tum, NBM turned over to the
central bank of former Yugoslavia. Assets corresponding to these liabilities have been lost in
the break up of the federation. At the end of 1994, this amounted to about US$1 billion or
42 percent of the balance sheet of the banking system. These claims are held by 1.3 million
accounts, although there is a large concentration, with 70 percent of the amount held in only
5 percent of the accounts.



- 12 -
42.         The second source of distress comes from loans in foreign exchange that were
funded by foreign exchange borrowings, representing 38 percent of the balance sheet of the
banking sector. This consists of medium- and long-term credits of the banking sector
amounting to US$900 million. These obligations vis-a-vis external creditors are even more
concentrated than those related to the household deposits, with 86 percent in Stopanska
Banka, and 13 percent in the Bank for Foreign Trade. The corresponding balance sheet
assets and contingent liabilities are mainly bank loans and guarantees granted to large loss-
making enterprises and are also highly concentrated, with 60 percent of the outstanding
amount of these loans due from only 13 large enterprises. The default rate on these assets is
close to 100 percent.
43.         The third component comprises denar liabilities, consisting of deposit
liabilities, credits from NBM and capital and reserve funds and amounting to about
US$500 million, or 20 percent of the balance sheet. The corresponding assets are the banks'
cash, denar deposits with NBM and denar-denominated loans. As the default rate on denar
loans and guarantees is estimated at around 50 percent, the potential loss in this component
of the banks' balance sheet alone could be around US$250 million.
44.         Illiquidity of Stopanska Banka. In 1994, Stopanska from time to time
experienced illiquidity problems caused by two factors: (a) significant cash losses from
operations due to a very weak collection performance, and (b) new loan disbursements.
Because of its size, Stopanska has not been allowed to fail, and the central bank, as lender of
last resort, has provided liquidity support to Stopanska either through outright liquidity
credits or preferential reserve requirement treatment. The central bank's liquidity support to
Stopanska is being offset by tighter liquidity constraints on other banks since the overall
liquidity ceiling as contained in the monetary program has so far been maintained.
Continued support for Stopanska's cash deficits thus endangers the monetary program. From
the structural reform perspective, this support unwittingly works against the true restructuring
of the banking system by preventing a shift in market shares away from Stopanska to other
banks, reinforcing Stopanska's dominance and stymieing competition.
C. Recent Banking Reforms
45.         Elimination of Selective Credits. Perhaps the single most important decision
to bring the banking system to order was to eliminate selective credits as of March 31, 1994.
These selective credits were the bane of former Yugoslavia and continue to plague the
attempts at economic stabilization in all the successor countries. Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia's decision was courageous. But continued provision of liquidity credits for
Stopanska Banka by NBM could reverse this reform.
46.         Bank Restructuring Agency. The Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) was
established in early 1994, independent of the central bank. In coordination with the central
bank, it is empowered to intervene in a failing bank, invest on the government's behalf,
appoint a new board and managers, and sell the bank as a whole or in parts. The BRA is



- 13 -
administered by a General Manager under a supervisory board.2' The General Manager was
appointed in April, and he has now seven professional staff members and a foreign advisor.
Under FESAC, the BRA will play a central role in the restructuring and privatization of
Stopanska. It will take over non-performing foreign exchange and denar loans from
Stopanska, manage these assets and sell them to private investors. It will, therefore, need to
be strengthened further to assume these roles by providing it with additional resources and
foreign technical assistance.
47.         The Inprovement of the Legal Framework. A new legal framework for the
financial sector is basically in place, although fine-tuning will be needed when banks, which
are universal banks, start to diversity into securities underwriting and the insurance business.
This will have to be done in conjunction with the Securities Act and a future insurance law.
The National Bank Act was adopted in April 1992 and amended in May 1993. The Banking
and Savings Institutions Act and the Foreign Exchange (FX) and International Transactions
Laws were passed in May 1993. A Securities Act was also voted on by the National
Assembly while Accounting, Financial Transactions and Insurance Laws were adopted by the
Government and submitted to the Parliament during the first half of 1993. Existing
legislation encourages the entry of new, well capitalised banks with sound managers and
reputable owners. Sound and efficient private banks, along with the improvement of existing
banks through the effective enforcement of prudential regulations, especially on connected
lending, and more competitive market conditions, spawn by the break up of Stopanska
Banka, will make for a healthier and more efficient banking system.
48.         The Development of the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework.
The National Bank and the Banking and Savings Institutions Acts vest NBM with the
responsibility for developing the regulatory and supervisory framework. Accordingly, NBM
is in charge of: (i) issuing bank licenses; (ii) designing prudential regulations; (iii) exercising
off-site and on-site supervision; and (iv) applying sanctions on banks that fail to comply with
the regulations. In order to be licensed, banks have to have a minimum capital of
DM 3 million (DM 1 million for the branch of a foreign bank) and to submit to NBM a
comprehensive and well documented application file. Special licenses are required for a
bank to engage in foreign exchange and international transactions. For these operations, the
minimum capital required is DM 9 million. Existing banks do not have to be relicensed, and
those that do not comply with the new minimum capital requirements have until May 1995 to
raise their capital to the required level.
49.         According to the new banking acts, prudential regulations have to cover the
following areas: the liquidity position and the capital adequacy of banks; the amount of their
large exposures and their loans to shareholders and banks' staff; the level of term
transformation and loan concentration; the classification of risk portfolios and the level of
provisioning for them; the amount of foreign exchange risks; and the internal control systems
of banks. Banks have also to comply by mid-1995 with the limits defined by the new
banking act itself. The liquidity ratio, reserve requirements, risk asset classification and
provisioning requirements have already been defined by NBM. Other regulations are being
27 The supervisory board has seven members appointed by the Government, including two nominated by the
Ministry of Finance and another two by the central bank.



- 14 -
prepared with the help of foreign consultants. The completion of a satisfactory prudential
regulatory framework is a condition of the Second Tranche of FESAC (para 89).
50.         The development of on-site and off-site supervision of the banking sector is a
long-term process requiring a build-up of experience gained from a wide range of situations.
Bank supervision should also be based on adequate disclosure by banks through improved
accounting and auditing standards and practices. NBM is developing its bank supervision
capacity with training and technical assistance from the IMF and the USAID. Involvement
of international auditing firms in the external audits of banks would speed up the improve-
ment of the quality of financial disclosure by banks through better auditing standards. The
special audits of the four largest banks, which were completed under ERL by international
auditors, have provided a good baseline information, as well as the models for future annual
audits.
IV. THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
51.         The Government has a responsibility to ensure a minimum standard of well-
being for a population under extreme economic duress. At the same time, transformation of
socially-owned enterprises and macroeconomic stabilization depend also on social policy,
most notably adherence to an incomes policy in the socially-owned enterprise sector which
does not fuel inflation, and the adoption of flexible employment policies which facilitate
privatization and stem financial losses of socially-owned enterprises and banks. Stabilization
also requires fiscal restraint, which is threatened by unprecedented demand for social
transfers coupled with a shrinking contribution base. The Govemment must balance the
competing objectives of providing for those households at risk during the transition while
remaining fiscally responsible. In many cases, both objectives can be met by restructuring
and rationalizing social expenditures to concentrate coverage on targeted households.
A. Labor Redeployment
52.         Constraints on labor mobility have prevented the movement of most redundant
labor out of inefficient or dying industries, contributing heavily to enterprise losses. They
have also hindered the ability of the newly unemployed to seek the most attractive oppor-
tunities. Under ERL, to facilitate labor mobility, the Government embarked on reform of
labor and employ-ment policies. A revised Law on Labor Relations was adopted which:
(i) gives employers the right to terminate employment; (ii) eliminates employer responsi-
bilities for retraining and placement; (iii) provides six months' advance notification of
termination to employees; (iv) reduces overgenerous severance pay requirements to a
maximum of 12 months' wages; and (v) eliminates restrictions on the use of severance pay.
A revised law on Unemployment Compensation was also adopted which: (i) increases payroll
contributions for the Employ-ment Fund from 0.8 to 1.5 percent of gross wages; (ii) equal-
izes benefits due to bankruptcy with other causes of unemployment; (iii) limits the maximum
duration of benefits to 24 months in 1994 and 12 months in 1995; and (iv) establishes a
maximum benefit rate at 160 percent of minimum wage.



- 15 -
53.         The increased flexibility of labor market policies should accelerate the
employment transition which has already started. Between 1991 and 1993, employment in
socially-owned and mixed ownership enterprises fell from 366,000 to 324,000 workers,
while registered private-sector employment nearly doubled, from 18,000 to 34,000 workers.
Overall, the officially registered active workforce contracted from 702,000 to 665,000, with
registered unemployment increasing from 165,000 to 175,000. In 1994, there were about
185,000 registered unemployed persons. These trends notwithstanding, additional measures
are still needed to implement further labor force adjustments which would successfully
transfer redundant workers from inefficient enterprises and into more productive
employment. The remaining issues to be addressed include:
(a)   Labor redundancy and reduced productivity.  Although employment in
socially-owned and mixed ownership enterprises has fallen by 11 percent in
recent years, production has declined by more than 30 percent, reducing
worker productivity from levels which were, in many cases, already low by
intemational standards. A 1988 study in the former Yugoslavia estimated
around 150,000 redundant workers in the socially-owned enterprise sector in
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, of which around 100,000 are still
employed. Approximately this many workers are also currently receiving their
wages three to four months in arrears. Given this situatign, it is clear that
considerable additional displacement of labor and increased unemployment will
be necessary in the near future if enterprises are to be restructured to operate
in a financially viable manner;
(b)   Remainine rigidities for labor redeplovment. Additional measures are
needed to reduce the cost of labor adjustment for employers. Many
enterprises will not be able to afford the maximum 12 months' of severance
payments, and this may delay necessary layoffs--as has proven to be the case
in other countries in the region. The period of advance notification for layoffs
(six months) is also too long, and needs to be shortened and linked to the
provision of employment services for affected workers. A distinction is also
needed between the period of notice for small-scale layoffs and that for large-
scale layoffs which have greater community impact and make it more difficult
for workers to find alternative employment;
(c)   Inadecuate resources and emplovment services for laid-off workers.
Despite recent reform to shorten the duration of benefits, unemployment
compensation payments have been one to three months in arrears throughout
1994. While the January 1, 1995 reduction in maximum duration of benefits
from 24 to 12 months will further reduce fiscal pressure on the system, it is
important to ensure public confidence in the system through reliable and timely
payment of benefits. To protect the unemployed, alleviate social tension and
reduce resistance to layoffs, an infusion of funds is needed to clear arrears and
maintain timely payment of benefits. In addition, there is need to provide
active labor services to assist the unemployed in reentering the labor market.
Support in this area will be provided by the proposed IDA-financed Social
Reform Project.



- 16 -
B. Social Assistance
54.         Until 1986, all wage-earning or pensioner households received income support
in the form of family allowances. Since then, these allowances have evolved into a program
of targeted, means-tested benefits providing income supplements for up to three children
(0-20 years of age) to a maximum per-capita household-income ceiling. (Neither
unemployed nor self-employed households are eligible for child allowances, however.) The
per-child benefit level and per-capita household income level are adjusted periodically in
relation to average wages. In recent years, the household income threshold has been used to
restrain expenditures. In 1994, income transfers totalled MKD 1.2 billion for around
90,000 households, with an implicit average monthly benefit payment per household of about
MKD 1,100. Authorized benefits per child equalled MKD 440 for those age 0-14 and
MKD 700 for those age 15-20.
55.         In addition to child allowances and traditional social assistance for the
permanently disabled, Government introduced a new program in 1992, the Protection of the
Socially Endangered Population (PSEP), to cushion the impact of the economic transition.
The PSEP provides means-tested income support up to a defined "social protection level" for
wage-earners, pensioners, and the unemployed. The program has supplemented income up
to the social protection level--defined as per-capita household income equal to 25 percent of
the average wage in the socially-owned enterprise sector for wage-earners and pensioners and
15 percent for the unemployed. Self-employed households are not eligible for support under
this program either. With real wages falling and in the absence of significant labor shedding,
the PSEP program has been the fastest growing social transfer program--and a potential
threat to fiscal stability. The number of households receiving benefits rose to 57,000 by
November 1994; that number is projected to average 60,000 in 1995. Approximately MKD
1.9 billion were spent for the first eleven months of 1994. The initial 1994 budgetary
allocation of MKD 1.5 billion was first increased to MKD 1.95 billion and then corrected to
MKD 2.22 billion to handle unanticipated demand.
56.         Social assistance programs are playing a vital role in protecting vulnerable
households during an extraordinarily difficult transition period. However, certain issues have
emerged which call for reform in order to ensure that social assistance is financially
sustainable, adequately funded, well-targeted and supportive of economic transformation.
Most importantly, the benefits structure of the PSEP program warrants serious review, for it:
(i) provides benefits to more than just those in need; (ii) results in financially unsustainable
benefit levels; (iii) discourages adjustment of the labor market; and (iv) penalizes small-scale
private sector initiatives. Among the issues to be addressed are:
(a)   Financial unsustainabilitv. PSEP benefits are based on average wage in the
socially-owned enterprise sector, and entitle an average family of four to
income support up to 100 percent of this average wage (for wage-earner or
pensioner households). Because this wage reflects only those who are actually
paid in the socially-owned enterprise sector, it does not reflect real wages in
the economy as a whole, and overstates the capacity of the real economy to
support the social assistance program. It is an inappropriate basis for
establishing a minimum subsistence level of income support. Rather, this level



- 17 -
should be established on the basis of a minimum consumption basket, and
should place social assistance benefits in a proper sequence of financial
rewards in the economy--ascending from social assistance to unemployment
compensation to minimum wage to average wage--in order to provide
incentives to seek and maintain employment. This will allow the program to
provide protection to those who need it, as well as improve its financial
sustainability.
(b)   Disincentives for labor adjustment. While the average family of four is
entitled to 100 percent of the average wage for social assistance as long as one
family member remains employed (regardless of whether wages are paid), this
figure drops to 60 percent of average wage if the family member becomes
unemployed (e.g., through enterprise restructuring) and to 0 percent, if the
household launches a small business to enhance financial independence. Thus,
the financial incentives of the PSEP program tend to support the status quo, at
the expense of necessary enterprise restructuring, labor adjustment and private
sector development. Providing support to self-employed households which
meet the per capita income criteria will encourage small-scale private sector
initiatives, but will require improved registration and income reporting in the
private sector--an important effort for both tax administration and targeting of
cash benefits programs.
(c)   Insufricient funding. If the social assistance program is to support labor
adjustment and protect households at risk, it must provide timely and reliable
income support. Since 1993, payment delays of one to three months in the
PSEP program have been the norm--creating, in particular, a gap in coverage
for new beneficiaries, and inevitably heightening social tensions. With real
wages falling and unemployment rising, sufficient budgetary funds must be
allocated to clear existing arrears and ensure timely payment of social
assistance benefits in the next few years.
C. Social Insurance
57.         In the early years of the transition, the Government tumed to the social
insurance program, encouraging early retirement as a suboptimal solution to labor redun-
dancy. This policy contributed to adverse trends in revenues and expenditures which have
exacerbated fiscal disequilibrium in the Pension Fund (PF) in recent years. Between 1988
and 1993, the system had lost 85,000 contributing wage earners from the socially-owned
enterprise sector, while the number of new pensioners had risen by 70,000. Approximately
one-third of these new pensioners were early retirees on full pensions. Although the inflow
of new pensioners was reduced in 1994 due to legislative changes, with nearly 250,000
pensioners, social insurance is the largest of the social transfers, with 1994 expenditures
equal to around 13 percent of GSP.
58.         The PF provides old age pensions and survivors' and disability pensions based
on formulas related to the years of service and earnings of the insured worker. In recent
years, the PF has faced growing deficits fueled by reductions in the payroll tax base



- 18 -
(the dominant source of pension contributions) as socially-owned enterprises face bankruptcy,
place workers on leave with reduced pay, and underreport and/or delay the payment of
wages. At the same time, compliance with payroll taxes has been poor in the emerging
private sector. These fiscal pressures have been exacerbated by a system that provided
generous benefits by international standards, with low retirement ages and high maximum
replacement rates.
59.         In early 1994, the Government significantly revised the Pension and Disability
Law in order to improve the financial balance of the PF and realign benefit provisions. The
measures taken included: (i) prohibiting early retirement and early retirement buyouts;
(ii) increasing retirement ages for certain groups of workers by one-half year each year up to
the age of 60 for women and 63 for men; (iii) revising the assessment period to cover the
entire working life of new pensioners; (iv) reducing the maximum replacement rate to 80
percent; (v) increasing the payroll contribution from 18 to 20 percent of gross wages;
(vi) partially indexing pensions to inflation; (vii) revising the minimum and maximum
pensions; and (viii) eliminating expenditures on non-pension benefits. These reforms have
effectively slowed the influx of new pensioners, particularly in 1994. They will also reduce
the average old age pension-to-wage ratio from a very high 82 percent in early 1994 to
around 70 percent by the end of the year. The deficit has been substantially reduced, and
payment delays have been contained to two months. Despite the breadth of these reforms,
the financial imbalance of the PF continues to be a threat to general fiscal stabilization and
the maintenance of other social safety net mechanisms. This issue must be addressed in both
the short- and long-run.
60.         Short-run Deficit Reduction for the Pension Fund. The deficit on current
Pension Fund flows is projected to be MKD 2.0 billion in 1995. This does not take into
account payments for pension arrears. The projected deficit on current flows is equivalent to
1.1 percent of estimated GSP, or 31 percent of the Government's fiscal deficit for the year.
Measures are needed to reduce the 1995 deficit. The continued partial indexation of pension
benefits could help to resolve the problem in conjunction with other measures. The impact
of proposed policy changes needs to be evaluated, however, to ensure that the welfare of
persons receiving minimum pensions is not in jeopardy.
61.         Long-run Financial EAuilibrium of the Pension Fund. Unanticipated
economic shocks and a restricted planning horizon have led to a lack of fiscal control and the
need for continual crisis management of the PF. Public confidence in the social insurance
system is eroding along with its financial equilibrium as a growing number of retirees are
supported by a shrinking workforce in the socially-owned enterprise sector. On the revenue
side, a sustained effort is needed to broaden the tax base through improved private sector
compliance. Pension contributions from private sector earnings are falling short in two
ways. First, many registered businesses report minimum-wage earnings for many of their
workers regardless of actual wages paid. Second, the size of the unregistered private sector
is undocumented, but growing. On the expenditure side, expenditure control requires a
longer-term planning horizon and appropriate tools for policy analysis.



- 19 -
V. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
A. Overall Approach
62.         The Government's structural adjustment program for the enterprise and
banking sectors would use two key instruments of reform: first, a change in governance in
enterprises and banks through privatization and private sector development; and second, the
imposition of financial discipline on enterprises and banks through hard budget constraints.
FESAC measures would address the four major obstacles to changing governance and
imposing financial discipline:
(a)   Impediments to Early Privatization. First, the privatization law has
effectively given insiders (employees) the option to purchase their own
enterprise and, for this purpose, has given them time to do so. Insiders are
acting rationally by postponing to exercise their option as long as possible.
Second, it is expected that after the deadlines for insider privatization lapse
there would be many enterprises and assets that insiders would not be
interested or able to buy. These enterprises and assets, which accrue to the
PA after the deadlines, should be disposed of expeditiously. The current
procedures for privatization are cumbersome, requiring six months to complete
each privatization case. Finally, the financial capacity of local investors may
not be sufficient to absorb the enterprises and assets offered for sale all at
once. Foreign investors might not be forthcoming in view of near- and
medium-term country risk considerations (para 63-67).
(b)   Politically Sensitive Enterprises. There are enterprises which are making
large cash losses that the Government believes cannot be downsized or closed
immediately for political or social reasons. These enterprises should not be
allowed to continue to finance their losses with bank loans; otherwise, banking
reform would be frustrated and the hard budget constraint imposed on other
enterprises would not be credible. They have to be dealt with directly by the
Government under a transparent set of rules (para 68-81).
(c)   Illiquiditv of 80 Rercent of the Banking System. A hard budget constraint
on banks will not work since 80 percent of the banking system (Stopanska
Banka and the Bank for Foreign Trade) is already illiquid. The central bank
has closed BNT. But, because of the size of Stopanska, the central bank has
been forced, as lender of last resort, to provide Stopanska with liquidity credits
and preferential reserve requirements to meet Stopanska's cash requirements.
This not only effectively reverses the earlier important decision to abolish
selective credits, but endangers the central bank's monetary program.
Moreover, the liquidity support of Stopanska is currently offset by liquidity
constraints on other banks since the overall ceiling has so far been maintained
by the central bank. This unwittingly works against banking reform which
should encourage the growth of good banks and the reduction of bad banks,
and the promotion of greater competition (para 82-89).



- 20 -
(d)   Adverse Impact on Workers. Enterprise and, to some extent, bank
restructuring and privatization will result in a major labor realignment.
Enterprise and bank reform will have to be accompanied by adequate labor
adjustment measures to make it more acceptable to the labor sector and to
cushion the impact of the social trauma. Cash severance payments for the
25 large loss-makers will have to be assured to facilitate labor shedding.
Severance payments will need to be supplemented by active labor support
services, such as job placement, training, job counselling, small business
development and other labor redeployment measures. Unemployment benefits,
social assistance and the pension fund must be rationalized to encourage labor
mobility and a redeployment of human resources to new and efficient
economic activities (para 90-98).
B. Privatization
63.         Privatization in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is being organized
under a restrictive legal framework, arrived at after much negotiation and compromise within
the Parliament, which effectively delays implementation. Faster processes were rejected for
various reasons. In the case, for instance, of auctioning without prior administrative
enterprise valuations, there was fear of criticism that state assets would be "given away";
regarding sale to outsiders from the outset, it was viewed as violating the enterprises' right
of 'self-privatization" that derive from self-management and social ownership; and in the
case of mass privatization, it was regarded as failing to secure efficiency gains. In spite of
concerns that privatization will be delayed, the Government rejects the idea of amending the
law at this time, on grounds that not only would it delay privatization because of the time
consuming process of consensus building among conflicting interests, but also it would place
at risk the current consensus on privatization.
64.         Therefore, the Government's strategy is to find ways of accelerating the
implementation of privatization within the confines of the current law. The PA has already
taken a number of important steps in this regard (para 10). FESAC will support additional
measures to accelerate implementation of the privatization program, including simplifying
valuation of enterprises and assets, auctioning of a large number of enterprises, and allowing
sales below valuation prices when there are no buyers at the evaluated prices. The
Government has agreed to use these simplified procedures for small and medium enterprise
privatization after the deadlines for insider privatization have lapsed. A situation where the
PA becomes a holding company of hundreds of companies and subcontracts management to
third parties will be avoided through rapid disposal of enterprises. This policy is reflected in
65.         Another potential constraint to program implementation is the limited capacity
of domestic investors to fund the purchase of these many enterprises over a limited period of
time. To overcome this financing constraint, the law provides for the conversion of frozen
foreign currency deposits to privatization certificates for use in the purchase of enterprises
and assets. The Govemment issued a decree in December 1994 to enable the scheme to be
implemented and the Privatization Agency subsequently developed the implementation
guidelines. In compliance with a condition of Board presentation of FESAC. the



- 21 -
Government has made operative the frozen FX deposit to enterprise share swap scheme
according to procedures satisfactory to IDA.
66.          While the PA currently has an adequate and competent staff, it lacks the funds
needed to bring in foreign specialists to help in implementing the highly technical and critical
aspects of privatization. Technical assistance in these and other critical areas of program
implementation will be provided in parallel with FESAC with the help of grant funds from
bilateral donors.
67.         In view of the measures being taken, the Government believes that, despite the
constraints under the existing law, privatization can proceed more expeditiously. In
compliance with a condition of Board presentation. the Privatization Agency completed the
privatization of 96 enterprises (compared with the agreed target of 91 enterprises!. ALa
condition of the Second Tranche. the privatization of another 700 enterprises will be
completed. Completed privatization means the sale of 51 % of the voting shares of an
enterprise to the private sector. Since the balance of a maximum of 49 percent will be
shared between the pension fund (preferred, non-voting shares) and society at large (social
ownership), 51 percent ownership will give the new private owners full management control
of privatized enterprises.
C. Adjustment Program for Politically Sensitive Enterprises
68.         Under ERL, the Government requested that the most important enterprises in
severe fimancial difficulties be temporarily exempted from the hard budget constraint being
imposed on the rest of the economy. It agreed to identify no more than 25 politically
sensitive enterprises, which accounted for about four-fifths of losses in the enterprise sector
in 1993 and currently employ 56,700 workers and to deal with their restructuring and
privatization under a Special Restructuring Program (SRP). Entry to the SRP triggers the
preparation of short-term cost-cutting action plans that have to be submitted to Government
as a basis for determining the enterprise's access to the special treatment described below.
Having selected the enterprises, the Government will implement the SRP under FESAC.
69.          There are two types of politically sensitive enterprises that are included in the
SRP: (a) those that produce essential services and are making losses chiefly because their
sales prices are controlled; the list contains two such enterprises, the power company and the
railways; and (b) industrial and agro-industrial enterprises in financial distress. In the case
of the latter group, many are candidates for liquidation, but cannot be closed immediately for
political/social reasons (e.g., Skopje steel, a major regional employer).
70.          Legislation enabling implementation of the SRP was adopted on January 17,
1995. The law permits a change in enterprise governance by abolishing workers councils
and creating boards of directors in those enterprises which are 100 percent socially owned.
The Government is given the power to act as the owner of the socially-owned capital in all of
the enterprises and is placing a nominee on each of the boards of directors of enterprises
with social and mixed ownership (the utilities are already under majority State ownership).
These nominees will have the majority vote. To facilitate the shedding of surplus labor, the



- 22 -
law also suspends provisions under the Labor Code dealing with collective bargaining rights
and the right to advance notice in the case of termination of employment.
71.         Until end 1995, when the law expires, SRP enterprises will be relieved of the
obligation to service existing bank loans and other credits. During the program, access to
bank credit is denied except for transaction-specific, self-liquidating trade credits tied to firm
orders from creditworthy customers. Supplier credits will also be frozen, although supplies
could continue to be provided, but only against cash payments. This prohibition will
continue until the enterprises can restore a positive cash flow before debt service. As a last
resort, the Government might grant cash subsidies through the budget, but only if the
enterprises adhere to the implementation of the short-term cost cutting plans. The subsidies
would have to be such that the Government's stabilization plan is not jeopardized and the
resulting budget deficit must be affordable. In the agreed 1995 budget, an amount of
US$10 million equivalent has been provided for this purpose. Another US$16 million of
extra-budgetary funds from aid donors will also be made available to enterprises for needed
raw materials and spare parts.
72.         The frozen debts to banks will be carved out, transferred to the BRA and
converted to special non-voting shares (SRP shares) which can be liquidated only upon sale
to private investors, at which time they would become ordinary common shares. Debts to
State-owned utilities would be converted directly into SRP shares and wage arrears will be
converted directly into common shares. Trade creditors will have the option to convert their
claims into SRP shares. These shares can be sold at any time and any remaining unsold at
the end of the program will be sold at auctions. This process eliminates the need for long
and costly debt work-outs for enterprises which urgently need to be privatized or liquidated.
Also, the existing institutional capacity for negotiating such work-outs is extremely limited,
in part because they were not permitted under the existing bankruptcy law which provides
only for liquidation.
73.         Public Utilities. With regard to the utilities, their adjustment program would
entail that the Government permit them to increase output prices immediately, to the extent
politically feasible, to minimize budgetary subsidies, and soon thereafter, to eliminate the
budgetary subsidies. In exchange for price increases and, if given, budgetary subsidies, the
Government will require the enterprise to implement a satisfactory time-bound action plan
that includes major loss reduction measures, such as reducing overstaffing, divestment of
unrelated assets (shares in other enterprises, sports facilities, etc.), reducing overhead
expenses, and other cost-cutting measures to put the enterprise on a sounder financial footing
and to eliminate the need for further subsidies. The issue of economic pricing, however,
will be dealt with under a more medium-term restructuring program which is beyond the
scope of the SRP.
74.         Privatization through Asset Sale. Industrial and agro-industrial enterprises
that cannot generate a positive cash flow before debt service even after the cost-cutting
exercise will be liquidated, i.e., the going concern would be dissolved, assets of the
enterprise would be sold while the rest would be scrapped. Proceeds from asset sale will be
distributed to creditors and SRP shareholders. The workers will be assisted by the



- 23 -
Government with severance payments and other unemployment benefits and services. The
liquidation process will be expedited to minimize budgetary subsidies needed to maintain the
enterprise.
75.          Privatization of Going Concerns. After assessment, some enterprises might
be found to be generating a positive cash flow before debt service. For such enterprises
privatization will be pursued immediately. The process of privatization will include the sale
of SRP shares to private investors. Other enterprises might be able to generate a positive
cash flow only after downsizing and drastic cost-cutting, including sale of non-core assets or
businesses. (Proceeds from non-core asset or business sale will accrue to the selling
enterprise for purposes of its core business, and will not be pooled to prevent cross-
subsidization of failing enterprises.) At that time, they will also be privatized as going
concerns, but probably as smaller enterprises.
76.          Timetable. Under the SRP law, all enterprises are required to submit to the
Government detailed plans for implementing cost cutting measures. Labor shedding is to
take place, without prior notice, on the day the plan is approved by the Government and
other cost cutting measures, such as the closure of non-viable business units, are to be
implemented within 30 days thereafter. The Government expects that all plans will be under
implementation by mid-April 1995. The law requires that there be a mid-year review of
financial performance, and any enterprise with an on-going negative operating cash flow
could be put into liquidation starting six months from the effectiveness date of the law, or
July 17, 1995.
77.          Following the above timetable, the Authorities have complied with the
following conditions of Board presentation: (i! continued isolation from the banking system
of the 25 enterprises. except for transaction specific. self-liguidating trade credits. tightly
linked to purchase orders from creditworthy buyers: and Cii) shedding of over 8.000 surplus
workers in 16 enterprises (compared with the agreed target of 6.500 surplus workers in 5
enj=rrises!-
78.          According to the Government's program, at the expiry of the SRP law, all
non-viable industrial enterprises are to be in liquidation and privatization plans are to be
under implementation in the case of all others. Thus. the following are conditions of the
Second Tranche: (i) all non-viable industrial enterprises (those unable to generate positive
cash flows) are in liquidation: and (ii) in the case of all other industrial enterprises.
privatization plans are under implementation. with all SRP shares sold or offered for sale to
private investors according to procedures satisfactory to IDA.
79.          With regard to the two utilities (electric power and railways). the following
conditions of Board presentation have been met: (i) an increase in average rail tariffs of 15
percent: (ii) an increase in the average electricity tariff equal to at least one-third of the
difference between the current average tariff (around 3.9 US cents) and the average tariff
which would allow the utility to earn a profit equal to 5 percent of operating revenues, as
required under an existing agreement with EBRD: and (iii) agreement with IDA concerning
the total number of workers to be shed in 1995.



- 24 -
80.         For Second Tranche. in the case of the two utilities, the following are the
conditions: (i) the average rail tariff would have reached a level by end 1995 which provides
for a 22 percent increase above the mid-January 1995 level plus an additional increase equal
to the rate of inflation for 1995, and would have been maintained at that level in real terms
thereafter: (ii) the average electricity tariff would have reached the target level, described
above, and would have been maintained at that level in real terms thereafter: (iii) the
electricity tariff for all industrial users would be according to a uniform schedule of tariffs.
with the exception that in the case of some base load users of I 10 kV power. the standard
tariff could be discounted up to 10 percent: and (d! the 1995 programs for shedding of
surplus labor would have been fully implemented by both utilities.
81.         Institutional Arrangements. The Government has appointed a Trustee for the
SRP enterprises. He will report directly to the Interministerial Commission charged with
implementation of the SRP. The Trustee will be supported in carrying out his work by the
Government nominees to the enterprise boards of directors. The formal trusteeship will be
assisted by a 'shadow" trusteeship funded by technical assistance funds under the proposed
Social Reform Project. International consultants will be contracted to staff the "shadow"
organization of the trusteeship which will include a Shadow Trustee, shadow managers and
technical support staff. They will assist enterprise managers in implementing cost cutting
programs and monitor overall implementation of the SRP, on behalf of the Trustee and the
Government. Their prior approval would be required for any major commitment made by
the enterprises, including sales and purchase contracts, as well as for any application for
external funding from banks, the budget or other sources. In addition, grant funds have been
obtained to finance short term TA to help implement specific actions at the firm level, as
well as the position of Project Advisor to the Chairman of the Interministerial Commission.
D. Banking Reforms
82.         The banking sector measures under FESAC aim to: (i) reform incentives and
governance through the privatization of STB and the liquidation of the Bank for Foreign
Trade (BNT), the two biggest banks that account for 80 percent of the banking system;
(ii) promote competition and reduce the moral hazard problem by breaking up STB, which
accounts for 65 percent of the banking system; (iii) address the illiquidity and insolvency of
STB by financial restructuring; (iv) deal with the overhang from the frozen foreign currency
deposits and past foreign credits of all banks; (v) complete the establishment of a
satisfactory prudential regulatory framework for the banking system; and (vi) remove undue
pressure on banks from politically sensitive enterprises by requiring the Government to deal
with these directly (para 71).
83.         Restructuring and Privatization of Stopanska Banka. The restructuring
and privatization of STB will consist of three components: first, financial restructuring to
clean-up the bank of problem accounts and restore liquidity; second, change of ownership
and management through privatization; and third, break-up into several banks. Restoring
liquidity, especially of STB, is of immediate concern because, as explained above, the
current solution to its illiquidity continues to endanger the central bank's monetary program,
84.and militates against the true restructuring of the banking sector. The balance sheet



- 25 -
clean-up or financial restructuring will be followed immediately by privatization and break-up
to change governance and management, and to end STB's market dominance.
85.         To reduce the moral hazard problem and promote competition, the
restructuring and privatization of STB will be implemented in a way that, after the process, it
will not continue to dominate the banking system. The second biggest bank, Komercijalna
Banka, will be used as a benchmark for the target size of the remaining core of STB. STB
will not be bigger than 1.8 times the benchmark. A holding company, which would control
several STB units and would enable it to continue to dominate the banking system, will not
be allowed. Consolidation of banks in the future will be left to market forces, with close
monitoring by banking authorities to promote competition. These commitments are reflected
in the LDP. The break-up of STB has been started by the spin-off to private investors of a
branch accounting for about 10 percent of the cleaned-up STB. This was a condition of
Board presentation. Should this divestiture prove insufficient to reduce STB's size to no
more than 1.8 times the benchmark, further divestiture and privatization of branches/assets
will be required before the Second Tranche. Privatization (defined as at least 51 percent of
shares being in private hands, and governance being controlled by the private owners. with
the board and manaeement inde=ndent of the Government and government-controlled
entities) of the core STB is also a condition of the Second Tranche.
86.         Only performing denar credits (on and off balance sheet) will remain, while
the non-performing ones will be transferred to the BRA. This recognition of loss will result
in the write-off of the existing capital of STB and a capital deficiency. This deficiency will
be covered by the write-off of STB's selective credits from NBM, the reduction of
Government deposits in STB, and the issuance of government securities to the extent needed
to bring the capital accounts to, at least, zero. The denar-denominated government bonds to
be issued will have a maturity of 15 years priced at the discount rate of the NBM. To
ensure that the viability of the new bank or banks would not be impaired and that their assets
and liabilities are matched, the government bonds will carry market rates and a secondary
market or other liquidity mechanisms will be developed.
87.         Investors who have shown interest in STB include current managers or groups
of managers of STB branches, local investors, other local banks that want to expand by
acquisition instead of internal growth, and foreign banks and financial institutions, especially
those from countries with close trade ties with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) is interested in investing in
the surviving core of STB. Strategic investors will have to meet minimum criteria, including
documented proof of adequate capital resources, satisfactory banking skills and expertise,
integrity, and other criteria stipulated in the banking laws.
88.         Foreign Credits. All foreign exchange credits and corresponding assets will
be taken off the balance sheets and the responsibility of all banks and transferred to the BRA.
The FX credits, however, will remain on the balance sheets of the respective debtor
enterprises, which would then be liable to the BRA. The BRA will manage these accounts,
and attempt to collect on loans and their respective collaterals. The BRA can also sell these
loans to investors. The amounts collected by the BRA will be used to offset its operating
cost and the balance will accrue to the Government to help it service its bonds. To keep the



- 26 -
manpower complement lean, the BRA will subcontract its asset management and collection
function to outside entities (including banks) on a success fee basis.
89.         Frozen Foreign Currency Deposits. All frozen FX deposits amounting to
approximately US$1 billion will be taken off balance sheet of banks. The Government will
assume these liabilities and handle this problem by the expeditious implementation of the
asset-to-asset swap for shares of enterprises or business premises in the process of privati-
zation. While the FX deposit accounts with the remaining balances will be taken off balance
sheet of banks, the banks will continue to administer these deposits and to swap them for
privatization certificates as requested by the depositors and to draw down the account
balances.
90.         Prudential Regulations and Supervision. Development of a safe and sound
banking environment requires an adequate framework of prudential regulations, which are
comparable to international standards, and their effective enforcement by banking authorities.
At the moment, the prudential regulations are incomplete, the NBM enforcement powers
insufficient and the supervision capacity weak. These issues will be addressed at the same
time as the restructuring and privatization of STB, the liquidation of BNT, and solutions to
FX credits and deposits are being implemented. The prudential regulation governing
connected lending (bank owners. board directors. management, employees and affiliated
companies). satisfactory to IDA. has been issued in compliance with a condition of Board
=sentation. The central bank is currently receiving assistance from the IMF, the USAID
and other institutions to build up its on and off site supervision capacity. Other foreign
technical assistance is being provided to help the authorities complete the prudential regu-
latory framework. The completion of an adequate prudential regulatory framework and
enhancement of central bank's enforcement powers are a condition of the Second Tranche.
E. Social SafetyNe
91.         Social safety net reforms will focus on: (i) continuing to provide an adequate
level of protection to those at risk; (ii) facilitating labor adjustment through appropriate
income support and the development of active labor market services; (iii) restructuring
incentives under social assistance programs; and (iv) improving the short- and long-term
financial sustainability of social insurance. Implementation of reforms under FESAC will be
bolstered with technical and institutional support through an IDA-financed Social Reform
Project which is being prepared in parallel.
92.         Labor Adjustment. To facilitate the transfer of redundant labor from
socially-owned enterprises to new employment opportunities (particularly for the
25 enterprises participating in the Special Restructuring Program), the Government has taken
measures to:
(a)   Reduce advance notification of termination to one month for individual and
small-scale layoffs, and to three months for large-scale layoffs (150 workers or
more, or greater than five percent of the active labor force in the affected
community);



- 27 -
(b)   Transfer employers' severance pay obligations to the budget for the
25 enterprises participating in the Special Restructuring Program; and
(c)   Provide funds in the 1995 budget for the clearance of arrears on
unemployment benefits in the first half of 1995. The Government will also
prevent the accumulation of new arrears throughout 1995.
93.         The Government will establish and contribute to a Labor Redeployment Fund
(LRF) to be managed by the Privatization Agency. The LRF will provide funding for labor
adjustment services (counseling, placement, small business development, retraining, etc.) to
be developed within the framework of the proposed Social Reform Project.
94.         Social Assistance. In 1995 and 1996, the Government will continue to rely on
the PSEP program as the dominant form of means-tested income support during the
economic transition. The separate program of means-tested family allowances will be
substantially reduced. Adequate funding to meet PSEP demand will be linked to the reform
of the benefits structure and administration in order to enhance financial sustainability and
provide appropriate incentives for enterprise restructuring, labor adjustment and private
sector initiative. To ensure timely and reliable payments under the social assistance
program, the Government will prevent the accumulation of arrears in 1995. As a means of
restructuring incentives, the Government has equalized PSEP benefits across different
categories of beneficiaries starting with February 1995 payments, including wage-earners,
pensioners, unemployed and self-employed households. This has eliminated the existing bias
in benefits which discourages both the shedding of redundant labor from socially-owned
enterprises and the launching/registering of private sector activities.
95.         An important reform of the PSEP system will be the definition of a new social
protection scale (adjusted for household size and urban/rural cost of living differentials)
based on a poverty line rather than on average wages. Technical assistance will be provided
through the Social Reform Project to help construct a poverty line based on a minimum
consumption basket and develop a poverty monitoring system. A new social protection scale
for social assistance benefits will be introduced by January 1996, based on the conclusions of
the technical assistance program. In so doing, the Government will ensure that the level of
social protection relative to other financial benefits in the economy provides appropriate
incentives to seek and maintain employment. In particular, the social protection level will
not exceed minimum unemployment compensation.
96.         Social Insurance The Government will adopt a set of measures agreed with
IDA to bring the Pension Fund into equilibrium on current financial flows with the deficit
not exceeding that projected for mid-year 1995. Measures should be focused on the
expenditure side, through reform of the benefits structure and eligibility requirements, rather
than on the revenue side, through additional tax infusions. Protection of low-income
pensioners will be a key aspect of the Government program. Among the measures which
would have an immediate positive impact of financial equilibrium are:



- 28 -
(a)   Continuing partial indexation. Subjecting pension benefits to restrictive
indexing relative to inflation, for example as a fraction of the wage increases
granted the non-economic sector, while continuing to ensure that benefits do
not fall below the social assistance minimum.
(b)   Removing non-pension payments. Eliminating non-pension payments or
transferring them to other payers. Such payments might include vacation
stipends, non-pension disability compensation payments, cash allowances for
home help, and postal delivery fees for pensions.
97.         Other deficit reduction measures which would have significant short-run
impact include:
(a)   Reducing maximum pensions. Capping maximum pensions at a lower level,
linked to the average wage, the minimum pension, or the minimum wage.
Capping at the average wage, for instance, would substantially reduce the
pension deficit while affecting about 11 percent of pensioners overall.
(b)   Taxing pension benefits. Personal income tax on pensions was initially viewed
as an obligation of the pension Fund which was not deducted directly from
pensien benefits. Deducting part, and eventually all, of the tax obligation
directly from pension benefits would ease the burden on the Pension Fund by
clawing back some entitlements.
98.         Efforts are also being initiated, with support from the proposed Social Reform
Project, to improve the medium- to long-term financial viability of the Pension Fund. These
efforts include strengthening registration and compliance with the payroll tax among the
growing private sector to improve revenue collection and developing a permanent capability
for actuarial modeling which will allow basic structural reform and further incremental
adjustment of pension policies to take into account changing demographic and economic
parameters. Policies that are likely to have a longer run impact on pension balances include
accelerating increases in retirement ages, tightening survivors' and disability entitlements,
and reducing the maximum replacement rate from its current high of 80 percent of average
indexed monthly earnings.
99.         Poverty Links. The social sector reforms under FESAC strengthen the ability
of social safety net programs to provide more equitable protection against poverty. The most
direct action in this respect is the change in the social assistance program. For the first time,
all categories of beneficiaries--the working poor, pensioners, and the unemployed--will be
provided equal social assistance payments. In addition, these benefits will be extended to the
self-employed who hitherto were not eligible for any assistance. Consequently, all families
will receive the same minimum benefits and equal poverty protection. FESAC also ensures
that unemployment benefits and social assistance will not be in arrears, preventing the
unemployed from falling into poverty through delays in payments and those eligible for
social assistance from seeing their incomes unexpectedly eroded. Lastly, reductions in



- 29 -
Pension and Disability Insurance Fund expenditures are structured to maintain minimum
pension benefits above the social assistance level, helping to protect pensioners against
poverty.
F. Budgetary Cost of the Program
100.          The main fiscal cost components of the reform program comprise severance
and unemployment benefits for workers laid-off by the 25 politically sensitive enterprises,
the direct budgetary support to the 25 enterprises needed to implement their approved cost-
cutting action plans, the carrying cost of government bonds issued to financially restructure
Stopanska Banka, debt-service of foreign credits of banks assumed by the Government, the
cost of the Labor Redeployment Fund, and the cost of clearing arrears on unemployment
compensation. Except for the debt-service on foreign credits, which will be known only
when an agreement with the Paris Club is reached, the total cost is estimated to be
US$95 million equivalent or 4 percent of projected 1995 GSP. The cost of the program has
been reflected in the 1995 budget agreed with the IMF and enacted into law by Parliament.A
Table 1: Budgetary Cost of the Program
l ___________________________________                U S$     m illion
Privatization                                           0.0 *
Politically Sensitive Enterprises
Severance Payments (20,000 workers)            40.0
Unemployment Benefits                          10.0
Budget Subsidies                               10.0 **
Banking Reforms
Debt Service on Government Bonds               30.0
Debt Service on Foreign Debt of Banks         TBD *
Social Safety Net
Arrears Clearance on Unemployment               4.5
Labor Redeployment Fund                         0.5
Total                              95.0
+ Debt Service (TBD)
*      Operating budget of PA covered by its share of privatization proceeds.
**     Another US$16 million from extra-budgetary sources (EC Phare and ECHO aid) will be used to
provide enterprises with spare parts and raw materials in accordance with approved cost-cutting
action plans.
***    Initially estimated at US$20 million.
g   The 1995 budget provides MKD 4,600 million (US$115 million) to meet the cost of FESAC-related reforms,
including an initially estimated amount of US$20 million for debt service on foreign credits of banks, taken over
by the Government in the process of bank restructuring.



- 30 -
VI. THE PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
101.        Under ERL, the Bank Group assisted the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia in starting the process of restoring creditworthiness through an arrears clearing
program, and in initiating structural reforms by establishing the legal, regulatory and
institutional basis for enterprise, financial and social sector reforms. Although
implementation of structural reforms is on track, it could become more costly in view of the
delay in the resolution of the external problems facing the country. FESAC will help the
Government pursue the processes started under ERL, despite the setback caused by external
shocks, by continuing with the arrears clearing program and implementing key enterprise,
banking and social sector reforms, as explained in Section V.
102.        Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, however, cannot complete arrears
clearing or implement its reform programs without substantial external financial assistance.
So far assistance from the international donor community has been meager. Assistance from
the European Union is blocked by Greece. The first Consultative Group meeting for the
country did not yield much result. IDA, therefore, has to play a more active role in
mobilizing resources for the country, including the promotion of cofinancing opportunities.
Cofinancing of FESAC is being discussed with the Japanese government and other bilateral
donors, who have indicated interest.
103.        While the desire to reform is strong, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia's capacity for implementation is still weak. As FESAC helps to reform the
perverse incentives of the past, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia also needs
assistance at the microeconomic level to accelerate the implementation of the agreed
adjustment program. IDA is administering grant funds (Dutch, Italian, Japanese and USAID
trust funds) and is seeking other grants (Swiss government) to provide needed technical
assistance to implementing agencies in restructuring the 25 politically sensitive enterprises,
implementing banking reforms and completing individual privatization transactions. A
companion project, also with IDA financing, is being prepared to strengthen the delivery
system for unemployment benefits and active labor market programs (Social Reform Project).
Assistance at all three levels is required to realize the government's enterprise, banking and
social sector reform program in a timely manner.
B. Conditions for Board Presentation and the Second Tranche
104.        During preappraisal in August 1994, a draft policy matrix was discussed with
the Government and the central bank. Agreement on the policy matrix, including revisions
by the Loan Committee, was confirmed by the Government during negotiations (Annex 2).
During negotiations, the Macedonian delegation also presented to IDA a signed Letter of
Development Policy, which was found to be satisfactory (Annex 1).



- 31 -
C. Credit Administration
105.        Amount and Tranching. The proposed Credit, in the amount of SDR 54.7
million (US$85 million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms, with a 35-year
maturity, including a 10-year grace period. A first tranche of SDR 27.35 million
(US$42.5 million) would be available for disbursement on effectiveness, while the balance
would be available for disbursement after compliance with conditions of the Second Tranche.
106.        Procurement. Procurement of goods would be carried out according to the
Procurement Guidelines of IDA (January 1995). Imports made by ministries, public
enterprises and private importers costing US$3 million or more per contract would be
procured in accordance with simplified Intemational Competitive Bidding (1CB). IDA's
standard bidding documents for goods would be used for ICB procurement.
107.        Subject to the prior approval of IDA, commonly traded commodities may be
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of
competitive procurement, acceptable to IDA. Contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost less than US$3 million for the public sector would be awarded through
international shopping based on an evaluation and comparison of at least three quotations
obtained from suppliers from at least two eligible countries. Private importers usually obtain
several quotations from different countries. Under this operation, they shall follow
international shopping procedure in accordance with Clause 3.5 of the Bank Procurement
Guidelines. To make the operation manageable, small contracts below US$10,000 would not
be eligible for IDA financing. A Country Procurement Assessment Review for the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is scheduled to be undertaken in FY96.
108.        Disbursements. The proposed Credit would finance 100 percent of the CIF
cost of general imports, excluding luxury goods, military equipment, nuclear reactors and
parts, uranium, tobacco and tobacco processing machinery, as defined under the Standard
Trade Classification. Disbursements for contracts costing US$3 million or more per contract
would be made on the basis of full documentation, and would require prior review by IDA.
For contracts costing less than US$3 million per contract, disbursements would be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). These SOEs would be based on customs
certificates and would indicate the name and address of the importer, description of goods,
value, country of origin and importation date. These customs certificates and the underlying
documents, including the invoice/purchase order, evidence of shipment, and pre-shipment
inspection certificates, if applicable, would be collected and maintained by the Customs
Department and would be made available upon request to IDA supervision missions for
review, and to external auditors for audits. The minimum size for a withdrawal application
will be US$10 million equivalent. Retroactive financing in an amount equivalent to 30
percent of the credit amount will be allowed for eligible expenditures made up to 4 months
from the date of the Credit Agreement.
109.        Accounts. The NBM would keep the accounts for this credit, comprising a
record of draw-down on the credit and copies of the statements of these accounts. These
records would be updated monthly, and quarterly statements of transactions and balance,



- 32 -
together with necessary recommendations for disbursements and information on claims in
process, would be forwarded to IDA.
110.        Audit. The NBM would maintain records of all transactions under the credit
in accordance with sound accounting practices. The NBM would also ensure that the
importers maintain the supporting documents, on the basis of which statements of
expenditure would be prepared. All accounts would be audited within six months of the end
of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA. The accounts and audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
111.        Monitoring Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance and the NBM will be
responsible for monitoring the implementation of the program. IDA will monitor the
implementation of the reform program with the help of the Policy Matrix attached to the
Letter of Development Policy, through semi-annual reviews, as well as in the context of the
preparation and supervision of other projects.
112.        Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with IDA's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OS. 4.00, Annex A), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category 'UU and would not require an environmental
assessment.
D. Benefits and Risks
113.        Benefits. Implementation of key structural reform measures in the enterprise,
banking and social sectors under this operation would support the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia's program for stabilization and economic recovery. Enterprise adjustment
would cut loss-making in the economy and allow enterprises to respond to the new market
conditions of the country. Banking reforms would address the financial distress of the
banking system and provide the basis for building a sound and efficient financial
intermediation system. Economic stability and growth would enhance the political future of
the country. Continuation of the arrears clearing process would help the country achieve
creditworthiness and gain access to external finance.
114.        Risks. The risks are high. The external environment continues to be hostile
with the war in Serbia, and tensions with Albania and Bulgaria. Greece's February 16th
decision to cut-off the southern border of the country closed the country's only remaining
railway link to the outside world. These external shocks could delay recovery and impose a
larger cost on the economy, stymieing implementation of stabilization and structural reforms.
Payment to preferred creditors might again be suspended. Domestic tensions brought about
by the economic recession and increasing unemployment might weaken the resolve to
continue with the reform program. Yet, the Government is aware that its options are
limited. It will not easily abandon the one it is pursuing today since the alternative could be
political and economic collapse.



- 33 -
VII. RECOMMENDATION
115.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
By Gautam S. Kaji
Attachments: Annexes 1 - 3
Schedules B - D
Washington, D.C.
April 19, 1995



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
7rage 1 0f 15
GOVERNMENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Letter of Development Policy
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Skopje, April 3, 1995
Mr. Lewis Preston
President
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
Resutts of Program Iplementation
1.    Since the approval by the World Bank of the Economic Recovery Loan and Credit
(ERL) on February 8, 1994, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia has vigorously
pursued the program of stabilization and structural reform agreed with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, despite a major unexpected external shock
brought about by the Greek blockade starting on February 16, 1994.
2.    Data for 1994 indicate that the stabilization program has been successful. The
economy was stabilized quicker than expected, with a December-to-December inflation in
1994 of 55 percent, compared with the target of 70 percent. The freely floating exchange
rate has remained stable in nominal terms and the black market premium has disappeared.
The country succeeded in maintaining net international reserves at the agreed level despite
the outflows related to the clearance of arrears with the World Bank. Wage control has
reduced real wages in 1994 by an average of 14 perccent (11 and 25 percent for the
enterprise and non-economic sectors, respectively).
3.    Monetary and credit growth targets agreed under the STF were met. As agreed with
the IMF and the World Bank and in accordance with the Central Bank Act, selective credits
were phased-out as of March 31, 1994, enabling a sharp decline in reserve money growth



- 35 -                                 ANNEX 1
Page 2 oX 13
and in subsidies to agro-industry. Fiscal performance has been better than expected with the
reduction in agricultural subsidies, public sector wages and entitlements under social
programs (pension fund), the increase in sales tax, excise tax and customs duties, and the
implementation of tax reform.
4.    The structural reforms have started in earnest. In enterprise reform, we have started
implementation of the privatization law, adopted appropriate, legislation to enable the
privatization or liquidation of the largest loss-making enterprises, and adopted legislative
measures to support private sector development. Regarding banking sector reforms, aside
from the abolition of selective credits, a credit ceiling on banks was imposed, new prudential
regulations were issued and the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) was established. Labor
market reforms included legislative changes to facilitate labor shedding. At the same time,
measures to foster cost-effectiveness and sustainability of the social safety net, particularly in
the area of pensions, unemployment benefits and financing of health expenditures were
included.
Macroeconomic Program for 1995
5.    The main objective of the Government's macroeconomic program for 1995, for which
we have sought support from the IMF, will be to achieve a further and lasting reduction in
inflation and further implementation of the structural reforms. The program's anti-
inflationary thrust will rely on wage control, a tight monetary policy and strict budgetary
discipline, along the lines we adopted and implemented last year. For 1995, moreover, we
intend to enhance the sustainability of stabilization policies by accelerating enterprise and
banling sector restructuring, for which sufficient resources, equivalent to 4 percent of GSP,
have been provided in the 1995 budget. We also intend to provide significant fiscal support
for monetary policy during the year. Other important objectives of fiscal policy include the
elimination of outstanding central government arrears, avoiding recourse by public sector
entities to the banking system, and the balancing of current revenues and expenditures of the
Pension Fund by the middle of 1995.
6.    To meet our fiscal objectives for 1995, we have designed revenue-enhancing and
expenditure-saving measures estimated to yield 4.4 percent of GSP in domestic resources.
These will result in a further reduction of the general government deficit, from 2.6 percent
of GSP in 1994 to 1.8 percent of GSP in 1995. On the strength of our policies described
above, we have targeted a reduction in the December-to-December inflation, from 55 percent
in 1994 to 18 percent in 1995.
7.    We are confident that the reduction in inflation to low levels and the acceleration of
structural reforms will create conditions favorable to sustained growth. The precipitous drop
in output that has occurred over the last four years appears now to have slowed down and,
barring further adverse external shocks, we expect to see a modest recovery before the end
of 1995. We are aware, however, that a major recovery will depend importantly on a
resolution of the regional crisis and on the restoration of access to export markets and
transshipment routes.



- 36 -                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 15
Enterprise Reform Program
8.    The past performance and current condition of the enterprise sector in the Republic of
Macedonia stem, to a large extent, from the Yugoslav experiment with "market socialism",
whose most notable features were social ownership of capital and management by workers.
Enterprise governance was vested in worker councils and all important business decisions,
including the selection of managers, were made by these councils. Since capital was owned
by society at large, there was no effective advocate for its preservation and growth. The
primordial concern was employment and wages, resulting in the decapitalization of
unprofitable enterprises. Republic of Macedonia inherited an enterprise sector in a deep
crisis.
9.    With the collapse of export markets in the former CMEA area, and the loss of
'domestic' markets following the dissolution of Yugoslavia, the imposition of international
sanctions on Serbia and the blockade by Greece, enterprise performance deteriorated rapidly.
There was a further significant deterioration in performance in 1993, as real wages rose by
35 percent, despite a further drop in output. Almost half of socially-owned enterprises were
incurring losses. The fall in output has been deep and broad based particularly in the
industrial, agricultural and trade sectors. Within industry, metals, metal-processing, textiles
and construction have been particularly severely hit. So far, there is no sign of a levelling
off in the fall in industrial output, which fell by another 10.5 percent in 1994.
10.   Perverse incentives inherent in social ownership abetted by soft budgets have
prevented a large number of the socially-owned and mixed ownership enterprises from
adjusting to the coUapse of the traditional markets and to new competitive forces. This
failure has contributed to the escalation of enterprise losses. During 1992, total accounting
losses incurred by 3,688 enterprises were equivalent to 8.6 percent of GSP. The 20 top loss-
maing enterprises accounted for 84 percent of total losses of the enterprise sector. Given
the worsened economic situation in 1993, total losses were much greater at 16.3 percent of
GSP, involving 8,000 enterprises and 135,000 employees.
Governnent Enterprise Reform Strategy
11.   The Government's strategy for enterprise reform centers on privatization and private
sector development. The Government believes that the perverse incentives inherent in social
ownership are best reversed by privatization. Private owners and managers can tackle the
problem of overstaffing in enterprises better, once labor regulations are made supportive of
reforms and an adequate safety net is put in place. Private entrepreneurs, together with their
financiers, can best adjust operations to the permanent, as well as temporary, market changes
facing the country. Accordingly, the Govemment has introduced changes in the policy
regime to enable implementation of this strategy.
12.   In June 1993, a privatization law was passed governing the privatization of
approximately 1,200 enterprises. A privatization agency (PA) has been established to
implement the law. During the past year, we focussed on validating the internal share
privatization cases under the previous privatization program and we have almost completed
the process. To date, under the new program, 161 privatization plans have been approved
and 96 privatizations have been completed. We expect the pace to accelerate as we gain
experience and simplify the procedures further.



- 37 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 15
13.   In parallel, over the past year, the Government has been putting in place the essential
elements of the legal and regulatory framework for the enterprise sector in a way that would
promote private sector development in a modem market economy. Parliament's approval has
been secured for legislation on securities, foreign investment, foreign exchange activities,
extemal credit relations, customs, concessions, banks and savings institutions, accounting and
financial activities. Substantial progress has been made in implementing much of this
legislation, and we intend to accelerate the pace of implementation by increasing institutional
capacity. Moreover, we are working on completing the legal framework by adopting a
modem Bankruptcy Law, a new Commercial Code, a Law on Public Enterprises and a Law
on Denationalization and Restitution. We expect to complete the legal framework that is
fully compatible with the workings of a market economy before the end of 1995.
Private Sector Development
14.   It is the current policy of the Republic of Macedonia to expand the scope of private
enterprise. There are no government restrictions on private businesses. It is very easy for
an entrepreneur to register a new business and to start operating. This policy environment
has resulted in more than a ten-fold growth of private enterprises from 5,763 registered in
1990 to 68,800 in 1994. Most private activity, however, is in trading, considering the
opportunities presented by the disruption of formal trade caused by the embargoes, the lower
risk and smaller capital required, the quick return, and the tradition of trading among the
people.
15.   Nonetheless, there appear to be areas where improvements in the environment for
private sector activities could be made, especially in terms of promoting manufacturing
activities and larger companies. Due to inadequate financial disclosure, caused by the lack of
acceptable accounting and auditing standards, expansion of enterprises through debt and
equity financing beyond the informal financial market is difficult. We are working on
bringing our accounting and auditing principles and practices to the level of international
standards. At the same time, bank finance, especially of longer maturities, is inadequate due
to a lack of satisfactory real estate collaterals, and a crowding out by the socially-owned
sector. The latter is being addressed through the hard, budget constraint being imposed on
socially-owned enterprises.
16.   More significantly, the legal framework for land ownership for business premnises, as
well as for purposes of loan collaterals remains an issue. Under existing law, no physical or
legal person can own land in urban areas, but rather receive a right of use. The right to use
is difficult to transfer or assign, constraining market allocation of land to more efficient
economic uses. As we try to achieve a political consensus on the broader, highly sensitive
issue of land ownership, we think that, with enterprise and business premises privatization,
the immediate needs of the private sector are being met. Under the latter scheme, we are
offering for sale 100,000 square meters of business premises by various means including the
frozen foreign currency deposits scheme. We intend to sell all these business premises by
the end of 1996. To attain this goal, the Govemment is resolving all legal encumbrances
affecting these premises, and is simplifying the auction procedures to allow offer prices to
fall below valuated prices in accordance with market conditions.



- 38 -                              ANNEX 1
Privatization                                                            Page 3 of 15
17.   The Government's privatization program is based on a case-by-case approach,
whereby the enterprises propose to the PA a transformation plan. Because the law places
responsibility for development of the transformation plan on the enterprises, it essentially
allows enterprise managers and employees the opportunity to the purchase of enterprise
shares through a management/employee buyout. Furthermore, the law requires that
enterprises be valuated by licensed valuators and that the validity of internal share case
privatization be ruled upon after a case-by-case review by the Office of Public Revenue.
Since these preliminary requirements are time-consuming, socially-owned small and medium
enterprises were given until December 10, 1994 to present privatization plans; socially-
owned large enterprises have until December 10, 1995. Enterprises with mixed capital
(social capital and internal shares issued under the old Yugoslav privatization law) have until
June 28, 1995.
18.   The Govemment's strategy is to find ways of accelerating the implementation of
privatization within the confines of the current law. The Privatization Agency has already
taken a number of important steps in this regard. With FESAC support, we will undertake
additional measures to accelerate implementation of the privatization program. The
Government is committed to the implementation of more automatic and rapid procedures,
especially for small and medium enterprises under its control. In this regard, valuations of
small and medium enterprises under the PA's control will henceforth be conducted using a
comparator method based upon subsector price/earnings ratios; this wiUl significantly simplify
and accelerate the valuation process for these enterprises. In addition, the PA has developed
guidelines for the auctioning of all residual shares and enterprises under its control. With
regard to these auctions, the Government is committed to the implementation of a policy of
seUing all residual shares (minority stakes remaining after a majority of equity has been
privatized) to the highest bidders, regardless of whether the highest bid is below the valuation
(i.e., starting) price. A situation where the PA becomes a holding company of hundreds of
companies and subcontracts management to third parties will be avoided through rapid
disposal of enterprises.
19.   Another potential constraint to program implementation is the limited capacity of
domestic investors to fund the purchase of these many enterprises over a limited period of
time. To overcome this financing constraint, the law provides for the use of frozen foreign
currency deposits for the purchase of shares. A Government decree was issued in January
1995, specifying the manner in which frozen foreign currency deposits could be used in
association with the privatization program. The Government recognizes the potentially
important role these deposits can play in absorbing the large volume of assets which will be
offered in the program, while, at the same time, extinguishing claims on the Government
created by its assumption of these deposit liabilities. Frozen foreign currency accounts can
be applied toward the purchase of share capital of any enterprise, deposits can be freely sold
and transferred between accounts (to allow for accumulation by strategic investors), and are
restricted for exchange into shares only (to prevent the creation of quasi money).
20.  In view of the measures being taken, the Government believes that, privatization will
proceed expeditiously. By Board presentation of the FESAC, 96 enterprises would have
been privatized. We expect to complete the privatization of another 700 enterprises by
December 1995, or a total of 791 accounting for 60% of the enterprises included in the
program.



-39                               ANNEX 1
Hard Budget Constraint on Enterprises                                    Page 6 of 15
21.   While in the medium term, the solution to the crisis in the socially-owned enterprise
sector is seen as privatization, in the short term, the Government's program is to force
enterprises to restructure by removing the accommodation of enterprise losses through the
banling system. Even if the Government wished to continue such accommodations, the scale
of losses are now so great that such a policy is untenable, and the Government acknowledges
that such recourse to the banking system would undercut its attempts to stabilize the
economy.
22.   Therefore, the Government program requires that, except for politically sensitive
enterprises, all enterprises are to be subjected to a hard budget constraint. This means that
their continued existence must be based on their viability as judged by owners and creditors,
not by government, and that their ability to secure resources for continued operation would
depend solely on their own cash flow, and their borrowing from banks based on their
commercial viability and creditworthiness. Thus, there will be no government subsides or
bailouts.
23.   Accordingly, rediscounts from the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM), which had
been the customary way of financing enterprise losses, were abolished as of March 1994.
The Government has also decided to stop providing guarantees for bank loans to enterprises
from October 31, 1994. By closing the second biggest bank in December 1993 and
subsequently liquidating it, the central bank has demonstrated its intention of not bailing out
bad banks. The only remaining potential source of bad loans, through its ability to generate
quasi fiscal deficits because of its size, is Stopanska Banka. It will be broken-up and
privatized with FESAC support.
24.   Maintenance of the Govemment's position has been made politically more difficult by
the embargoes on trade to the south; enterprises are demanding relief from the government,
directly or through bank credits, by arguing that their problems are 'temporary". The
Govemment recognizes that it is not able to judge which enterprises face temporary and
which, permanent difficulties, and is, therefore, not sympathetic to such representations,
especially since it has insufficient resources to provide assistance even in legitimate cases.
The Government is committed to continue to uphold this policy.
Adjustment Program for Politically Sensitive Enterprises
25.   There are, however, several large enterprises making large cash losses, that the
Government cannot close down immediately for non-economic reasons. Until recently many
of these enterprises were able to finance their losses with bank loans. However, in order for
banking reforms to succeed and the hard budget constraint on all other enterprises to be
credible, these "politicaly sensitive enterprises" have been isolated from the banling system
and will be treated under a different, but transparent set of rules with a time-bound program
called the Special Restructuring Program (SRP).
26.   There are two types of politically sensitive enterprises that are included in this
program: (a) those that produce essential services and are makdng losses chiefly because their
sales prices are controlled; the list contains two such enterprises, the power company and the



ANN E X 1
Page 7 of 15
railways; and (b) industrial and agro-industrial enterprises in financial distress. In the case
of the latter group, many are candidates for liquidation, but cannot be closed immediately for
politicalUsocial reasons.
27.   Under the SRP Law, enacted in January 1995, the Govemment is vested with the
authority to represent the majority socially owned capital in 23 industrial and agro-industrial
enterprises. These enterprises and two utilities, accounting for over 60 percent of bad loans
in the banking system, have been placed under the administration of a Trustee and
govemment nominees to their boards of directors who have 'Majority voting rights. The Law
abolishes their worker councils and suspends provisions under the Labor Code dealing with
collective bargaining rights and the right to advance notice in the case of termination of
employment.
28.   The SRP enterprises have been relieved temporarily of the obligation to service
existing bank loans and other credits. However, they would have to operate on a cash basis
in their dealings with suppliers of goods, energy and services. Also, access to bank loans
and other credits is denied except in the case of specific transaction-based, self-liquidating
trade credits, tightly linked to purchase orders form creditworthy customers.
29.   All SRP enterprises should have, by mid-April, submitted detailed operating plans for
1995, including plans for shedding surplus labor, spinning off non-core business units and
liquidating non-viable business units. Enterprises failing to do so by mid-July will be placed
in liquidation. However, certain enterprises deemed to have limited prospects for surviving
under the SRP, have been given earlier deadlines for submitting their plans. These plans
are expected to incorporate the cost cutting measures proposed by the international
consultants provided by the World Bank under a grant-financed technical assistance program.
Following approval of each plan by Government, labor shedding would be implemented
within 30 days. Lay-offs totalling over 8,000 in 16 enterprises have already taken place.,
30.    Enterprise performance relative to agreed plans will be monitored on a continuous
basis and from mid-July, for industrial enerprises, and from end September, for agro-
combinats, any enterprise with cash operating losses could be put into liquidation. By end
1995 all enterprises, except the two utilities, will be either in the processs of privatiation or
under liquidation.
31.   SRP enterprise debts to banks and other creditors have been identified prior to
February 28, 1995, and on that date the debts of banks and public utilities have been
converted into equity. Other creditors have the option to convert their claims into equity.
Equity is in the form of special non-voting shares which must be sold to private investors by
end 1995.
32.   As a last resort, the Government might grant subsidies to enterprises which strictly
adhere to the implementation of the short-term cost cutting plans. The total amount of such
subsidies would have to be such that the Government's stabilization plan is not jeopardized
and the resulting budget deficit would be affordable. In no case, will it exceed
US$10 million equivalent. The Authorities commit not to provide additional funding through
monetary financing.
33.   With regard to the two public utilities, their adjustment prograrn would entail that the
Government permit them to increase output prices immediately, to the extent politically



'age FS
feasible, to minimize bud-etarv subsidies, and soorn there-ater, to eliminate the budgetary
subsidies. In exchange for price increases and, if given, budgetary subsidies, the
Government will require the enterprise to implement a satisfactorNy time-bound action plan
that includes major loss reduction measures, such as reducing overstaffing, divestment of
unrelated assets (shares in other enterprises, sports facilities, etc.), reducing overhead
expenses, and other cost-cutting measures to put the enterprise on a sound financial footing
and to eliminate the need for further subsidies.  By end 1995, the average electricity tariff
will be at the level necessary in order for the utility to honor the financial covenant of its
agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) which
requires that the utility earn a profit margin of 5 percent.
34.   The studies carried out by the intemational consultants indicated that the SRP
enterprises collectively employ around 16,500 surplus workers. As some enterprises may be
forced to close during the program, the total number of workers affected could be
considerably higher. The Government has allocated an adequate arnount in the budget to
cover severance payments and other unemployment services and benefits to the workers
displaced by labor shedding programs.
35.     Before the presentation of FESAC to IDA's Board, the following measures have
been taken: (i) continued isolation from the banking system of all enterprises confirmed to be
making cash losses before debt service except for transaction based on self liquidating deals;
(ii) substantial cost-cutting measures through worker lay-offs have been initiated by 16 of
the industrial enterprises; (iii) an increase in average rail tariffs of 15 percent,; and (iv) an
increase in the average electricity tariff equal to one-third of the total increase required in
order to comply with the conditions of the EBRD agreement.
36.   The following measures will be completed before the Second Tranche of FESAC is
released: (i) completion of implementation of the approved cost-cutting plans by all
enterprises; (ii) initiiation of privatization of viable industrial enterprises or liquidation of
unviable ones; (iii) increase in average rail tariff to fully offset inflation in 1993, 1994 and
1995, accompanied by the shedding of surplus labor employed by the railways; (iv) the
average electricity tariff to have reached the level required under the EBRD agreement, also
accompanied by the shedding of surplus labor employed by the electricity utility; and (v) the
tariiffs for all large industrial users should not vary by more than 10% from the standard
tariff for all 110 kV users.
Banking Sector Reforms
37.   The banking sector in the Republic of Macedonia has historically had two key
characteristics, which today constitute the main obstacles to its transition to a competitive,
market-oriented system: market dominance by the biggest bank. Stopanska Banka (STB).
and interlocking relationship between bank owners and borrowers. Although Stopanska
Banka's dominance took different forms over time (at some times, as a-monolithic bank, and
at others, as some sort of a holding company of autonomous branches or "basic banks"), it
was motivated by the exigencies of central planning, whereby banks were to pool savings for
use by the central planning authorities, i.e., dominance aided centralization.
38.   With 97 percent of the banking system concentrated in four banks and the largest
bank, Stopanska Banka, accounting for 65 percent of banking assets, the system is
exceedingly concentrated. Even after removing the frozen foreign exchange deposits and



Page 9 of 15
foreign loans from balance sheets, the four main banks account for 95 percent and
Stopanska, 55 percent of the banking sector. Stopanska is too large to be allowed to fail,
epitomizing the moral hazard problem in the banking sector. In many parts of the country,
only Stopanska provides banking services to the public, and its closure could jeopardize the
retail payment system and affect the enterprise payment system handled by the SOK. It
handles most of the financing needed for the harvest of agricultural commodities.
39.   Interlocking relationship had its origin in the absence of the concept of equity or risk
capital in banking until the late 1970s. The State owned the banks and corporate guidance
was provided by boards represented by large bank borrowers  Thus, the main concem of
these boards was credit distribution. Since there was no equity capital, its preservation and
growth were not relevant concerns. The notion of equity capital was introduced in the
banking reform of 1978, but its introduction did not change corporate govemance. On the
contrary, bank borrowers who were already sitting in bank boards were merely required to
pay-in the needed capital, thereby institutionalizing interlocking relationships and heightening
the conflict of interest between borrowers and owners.
40.   Before Yugoslavia's breakup, borrower enterprises' control of banks was identified as
a major problem which begun to be corrected in the 1988 banking reforms. Banks were
converted from being service entities into joint-stock companies and changes were begun to
instill credit discipline in lending. Republic of Macedonia continued these reforms after
independence and the 1993 Banking and Savings Institutions Act prohibits net debtors of a
bank from exercising any ownership function notwithstanding the bank shares they held.
This superseded any provisions in the banks' articles of association and became effective, as
soon as the law was enacted in May 1993.
41.   On their own initiative, the smaller banks have started to implement this reform by
removing large defaulters from their boards and diversifying ownership through capital
increase. The restructuring and privatization of Stopanska Banka and the liquidation of Bank
for Foreign Trade (BNT) with FESAC support will resolve this problem in these banks.
42.   Existing legislation encourages the entry of new, well capitalised banks with sound
managers and reputable owners. Sound and efficient private banks, along with the
improvement of existing banks through the effective enforcement of prudential regulations
and more competitive market conditions will make for a healthier and more efficient banking
system.
43.   The current distress of the banking sector originates from three sources. The first
arises from household foreign exchange deposits, their counterparts being the banks' foreign
exchange deposits with NBM, which, in turn, NBM had turned over to the central bank of
former Yugoslavia. Assets corresponding to these liabilities have been lost in the break up
of the federation. At the end of 1994, this amounted to about US$1 billion or 42 percent of
the balance sheet of the banking system. These claims are held by 1.3 million accounts,
although there is a large concentration, with 70 percent of the amount held in only 5 percent
of the accounts.
44.   The second source of distress comes from loans in foreign exchange that were funded
by foreign exchange borrowing, representing 38 percent of the balance sheet of the banldng
sector. This consists of medium- and long-term credits of the banking sector amounting to
US$900 million. These obligations vis-a-vis external creditors are even more concentrated



-   -     -                                     -
mze 11 c: 1S
than those related to the househo.d deposits, with S6 percent in Stopanska Banka, and
13 percent in the Bank for Foreign Trade. The correspcnding balance sheet assets and
contingent liabilities are mainly bank loans and gua-rantees granted to large loss-making
enterprises and are also highly concentrated, with 60 percent of the outstanding amount of
these loans due from only 13 large enterprises. The default rate on these assets is close to
100 percent.
45.   The third component comprises denar liabilities, consisting of deposit liabilities,
credits from NBM and capital and reserve funds and amounting to about US$500 million, or
20 percent of the balance sheet. The corresponding assets are the banks' cash, denar
deposits with NBM and denar-denominated loans. As the default rate on denar loans and
guarantees is estimated at around 50 percent, the potential loss in this component of the
banks' balance sheet alone could be around US$250 million.
46.   In 1994, Stopanska from time to time experienced illiquidity problems caused by a
combination of two factors: (a) significant cash losses from operations due to a very weak
collection performance, and (b) new loan disbursements. Because of its size, Stopanska has
not been allowed to fail, and the central bank, as lender of last resort, has provided liquidity
support to Stopanska either through outright liquidity credits or preferential reserve
requirement treatment. The central bank's liquidity support to Stopanska is being financed
by tighter liquidity constraints on other banks since the overall liquidity ceiling, as contained
in the monetary program has so far been maintained. Continued support for Stopanska's
cash deficits thus endangers the monetary program. From the structural reform perspective,
this support unwittingly works against the true restructuring of the banking system by
preventing a shift in market shares away from Stopanska to other banks, reinforcing
Stopanska's dominance and stymieing competition.
47.   With FESAC support, we aim to reform the banking sector by: (i) changing
incentives and governance through the privatization of STB and the liquidation of BNT, the
two biggest banks that account for 80 percent of the banking system; (ii) promoting
competition and reducing the moral hazard problem by breaking up STB which account for
65 percent of the banking system; (iii) addressing the illiquidity of STB by financial
restructuring; (iv) dealing with the overhang from the frozen foreign currency deposits and
past foreign credits of all banks; (v) completing the establishment of a satisfactory prudential
regulatory framework for the banking system; and (vi) removing undue pressure on banks
from politically sensitive enterprises by requiring the Government to deal with these directly.
Restructuring and Privatization of Stopanska Banka (STB)
48.   The restructuring and privatization of STB will consist of three components: first,
financial restructuring to clean-up the bank of problem accounts and restore its liquidity;
second, change of ownership and management through privatization; and third, break up into
two, and possibly more parts. Restoring liquidity is of immediate concern, because, as
explained above, its illiquidity continues to endanger the central bank's monetary program.
The balance sheet clean-up will be followed immediately with sale to new private owners and
break up to avoid nationalizing these banks, to achieve a change in governance, and to end
Stopanska's market dominance.
49.   To reduce the moral hazard problem and promote competition, the restructuring and
privatization of STB will be implemented in a way that, after the process, it will not continue



lPage 11 of 15
to dominate the banking system. The remaining core of STB will not be greater ahan
1.8 times the size of the second largest bank, Komercijalna Banka. A holding company,
which would control several STB units and would enable it to continue to don-inate the
banking system, will not be allowed. Consolidation of baaks in the future will be left to
market forces, with close monitoring by banking authorities to promote competition. The
break up of Stopanska will be accomplished by spinning-off and privatizing at least
10 percent of Stopanska before Board presentation of FESAC. Other parts would be spun
off and privatized, if the remaining core is still greater than 1.8 times Komercijalna Banka by
the Second Tranche in the same manner as in the first divestiture. In the meantime, the
governance of the core STB will be improved by changing the Board, assigning
representatives to the new Board from the Government and the NBM, and requiring
clearance by them for loans above US$500,000 equivalent. It will be rendered fully liquid,
but not necessarily fully recapitalized through the provision of government bonds to the
extent needed to balance its assets and liabilities. Completion of the recapitalization and
privatization of at least 51 percent of capital of the core STB will be achieved before the
Second Tranche, including a possible equity contribution by EBRD.
50.   Only performing denar credits (on and off balance sheet) will remain in the bank,
while the non-performing ones will be transferred to the BRA. This recognition of loss will
be covered by the writing off/down the following equity/liabilities in the following order:
(a) the equity of net-negative investors (investors with non-performing loans or those whose
loans and advances are greater than their original equity investment in STB), (b)
corresponding loss provisions, reserves and; (c) special credits of NBM. Any shortfall
would be covered by the issuance of govemment securities or the removal of Government
deposits to the extent needed to bring the capital accounts to at least zero. The denar-
denominated govemment bonds to be issued will have a maturity of 15 years priced at the
discount rate of the NBM. To ensure that the viability of the new bank or banks would not
be impaired and that their assets and liabilities are matched the government bonds will carry
market rates and a secondary market or other liquidity mechanisms will be developed.
51.   Potential investors who have shown interest in STB include the current managers or
groups of managers of STB, local private investors, other local banks that want to expand by
acquisition instead of internal growth, and foreign banks and financial institutions, especially
those from countries with close trade ties with the Republic of Macedonia. The EBRD is
interested in investing in the surviving core of Stopanska. Strategic investors will have to
meet minimum criteria, including documented proof of adequate capital resources,
satisfactory banking skills and expertise, integrity, other criteria stipulated in the banking
laws.
Foreign Credits
52.   All foreign exchange (FX) credits extended by the Paris Club Creditors prior to
April 30, 1992 and corresponding assets have been taken off the balance sheets and the
responsibility of all banks and transferred to the BRA. By the second tranche all remaining
foreign credits extended prior to April 30, 1992 and their corresponding assets will be
removed from balance sheets of all concemed banks. The FX credits, however, will remain
on the balance sheets of the respective debtor enterprises, which would then be liable to the
BRA. The BRA will manage these accounts, and attempt to collect on loans and their
respective collaterals. The BRA would also be allowed to sell these loans to investors. The
amounts collected by the BRA will be used to offset its operating cost and the balance will



_    -                             A _  tNNEX 1
Page 12 or 15
accrue to the Government to help it service its bonds. To keep the manpower complement
lean, the BRA will subcontract its asset management and collection function to outside
entities (including banks) on a success fee basis.
Frozen Foreign Currency Deposits
53.   All frozen FX deposits amounting to approximately US$1 billion will be taken off
balance sheet of banks. The Government will assume these liabilities and handle this
problem through provisions of the existing law for hardship cases as published in the official
Gazette No.31/93 and by expeditious implementation of the asset-to-asset swap for shares of
enterprises or business premises in the process of privatization. While the FX deposit
accounts with the remaining balances will be taken off balance sheet of banks, the banks will
continue to administer these deposits and to issue privatization certificates as requested by the
depositors and to draw down the account balances.
Prudential Regulations and Supervision
54.   Development of a safe and sound banking environment requires an adequate
framework of prudential regulations, which are comparable to international standards, and
their effective enforcement of banking authorities. At the moment, the prudential
regulations are incomplete, the NBM enforcement powers insufficient and the supervision
capacity weak. These issues will be addressed at the samne time as the restructuring and
privatization of STB, liquidation of BNT, and solutions to FX credits and deposits are being
implemented. The central bank is currently receiving assistance from the 1MF and the
USAID to build up its on and off site supervision capacity. This will be expanded. Before
the Board presentation of FESAC, to address the basic weakness of the banking system,
satisfactory prudential regulations on connected lending (shareholders, board directors,
managers, employees and affiliated companies) will be in place. Completion of the
prudential regulatory framework for banks will require the issuance of new regulations on
bank ownership, portfolio concentration limits and branching regulations. In addition,
current regulations on bank licensing and registration, asset classification and provisioning,
definition of capital and capital adequacy need to be improved. The completion of an
adequate prudential regulatory framework and enhancement of central bank's enforcement
powers will be achieved before the Second Tranche of FESAC.
Social Safety Net Reform Program
55.   Macroeconomic stabilization and the transformation of socially-owned enterprises both
depend on labor market policies, including wage restraints in the socially-owned sector which
do not fuel inflation, and the adoption of flexible employment policies which facilitate
privatization and stem the financial losses of socially-owned enterprises and banks.
Stabilization also requires fiscal restraint, which is threatened by an unprecedented demand
for social transfers coupled with a shrinldng contribution base. At the same time, the
Government has a responsibility to ensure a minimum standard of well-being for a population
under extreme economic duress. Constraints on labor mobility have prevented the movement
of redundant labor out of inefficient or dying industries, contributing heavily to enterprise
losses. Increased flexibility of labor market policies should accelerate the employment
transition which has already begun.



Page 13 of 15
56.   Social safety net reforrm will focus on: (i) facilitating labor adjustment through
appropriate income support and development of active labor market services;
(ii) restructuring of incentives under social assistance programs; and (iii) improving the short-
and long-term financial sustainability of social insurance. Implementation of reforrm under
FESAC will be bolstered with technical and institutional support through an IDA-financed
Social Reform Project, which is being prepared in parallel.
Labor Adjustment
57.   To facilitate the transfer of redundant labor from socially-owned enterprises to new
employment opportunities (particularly for the 25 enterprises participating in the Special
Restructuring Program), the Government has taken measures to:
(a)   Reduce advance notification of termination to one month for individual and
small-scale layoffs, and to three months for large-scale layoffs (150 workers or
more, or greater than five percent of the active labor force in the affected
community).
(b)   Transfer employers' severance pay obligations to the budget for the 25 large-
scale enterprises participating in the Special Restructuring Program.
(c)    Provide revenues for clearance of arrears on unemployment compensation in
the first half of 1995. The Government will also prevent the accumulation of
new arrears throughout 1995.
58.   The Government will establish and contribute to a Labor Redeployment Fund (LRF)
to be managed by the PA responsible for overseeing enterprise restructuring. The LRF will
provide funding for labor adjustment services (counseling, placement, small business
development, retraining, etc.) to be developed within the framework of the proposed Social
Reform Project.
Social Assistance
59.   In 1995 and 1996, the Govemment will continue to rely on the Protection of the
Socially Endangered Population (PSEP) program as the dominant form of means-tested
income support during the economic transition. The separate progran of means-tested family
allowances will be substantially reduced. Adequate funding to meet PSEP demand will be
linked to reform of the benefits structure and administration, in order to enhance financial
sustainability and provide appropriate incentives for enterprise restructuring, labor adjustment
and private sector initiative. Having cleared all arrears on social assistance in 1994, the
Government will ensure timely and reliable payments and prevent an accumulation of arrears
under the social assistance program in 1995. As a means of restructuring incentives, the
Govemment will equalize PSEP benefits across different categories of beneficiaries starting
with February 1995 payments, including wage-earners, pensioners, unemployed and self-
employed households. This will eliminate the existing bias in benefits, which discourages
both the shedding of redundant labor from socially-owned enterprises and the
launching/registering of private sector activities.
60.   An important reform of the PSEP system will be the definition of a new social
protection scale (adjusted for household size and urban/rural cost of living differentials)



ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 15
based on construction of a poverty line rather than on average wages. We are requesting
technical assistance through the Social Reform Project to help construct a poverty line based
on a minimum consumption basket and develop a poverty monitoring system. A new social
protection scale for social assistance benefits will be introduced by January 1996, based on
the conclusions of the technical assistance program. In so doing, the Government will ensure
that the level of social protection relative to other financial benefits in the economy provides
appropriate incentives to seek and maintain employment. In particular, the social protection
level will not exceed minimum unemployment compensation.
61.   The Government recognizes that current budget allocations for priority health
programs, especially in the area of preventive care for tuberculosis, maternal and child care
and immunization are inadequate. Within available resources, we will find additional funds
to bring financing to more adequate levels.
Social ITsurance
62.   The Government will adopt a set of measures agreed with IDA to bring the Pension
Fund into equilibrium on current financial flows with the deficit not exceeding that projected
for mid-year 1995. Measures will be focused on the expenditure side, through reform of
the benefits structure and eligibility requirements, rather than on the revenue side, through
additional tax infusions. Protection of low income pensioners will be a key aspect of the
govemment program. Among the measures being considered are:
(a)   Continuing partial indexation. Pension benefits are being subjected to
restrictive indexing relative to inflation.
(b)   ReMoving non-pension payments. Certain non-pension payments have been
eliminated or transferred to other payers. Such payments could include
vacation stipends, non-pension disability compensation payments, cash
allowances for home help, and postal delivery fees for pensions.
63.   Efforts are also being initiated, with support from the proposed Social Reform
Project, to improve the medium- to long-term financial viability of the Pension Fund. These
efforts include strengthening registration and compliance with the payroll tax among the
growing private sector to improve revenue collection and developing a permanent capability
for actuarial modeling which will allow basic structural reform and further incremental
adjustment of pension policies to take into account changing demographic and economic
parameters. Policies that are likely to have a long run impact on pension balances will be
developed.



ANNEX I
- 48 -                               Page 15 of
64.   Based on the policies and actions described in this Letter and in the accompanying
matrix, we would like to request IDA's support for our reform program through a Financial
and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit in the amount of US$85 million equivalent.
Yours sincerely,
Borko S      l                              H.E. Jane Miljovsli
Governor of the                             Minister of Finance
National Bank of the                        of the Republic of Macedonia
Republic of Macedonia



Republic of Macedonia
PROPOSED FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Policy Matrix
.. ~~ .. ..o                                                        r,  e
-   -   -    - ' '  ' '' - -Measures Alreay   'oard'Presentaten                                         SeodTrnh
'--Reform Objective"'' -"' '''-'' Take                                        Cod -itions"'                       Conditions
1. Macroeconomic             Agreement on a macroeconomic             Agreed macroeconomic framework in   Agreed macroeconomic frame-
Framework                framework                                place                                  work in place
11. Adjustment Program for  1. Government appointed Inter-            I. Continued isolation of SRP          I. Completion of
Politically Sensitive        Ministerial Working Group                enterprises from the banking           implementation of approved
Enterprises                  (IMWG) to select 25 politically          system, except for specific            cost-cutting action plans by
sensitive enterprises for                transaction-based, self-liquidating   all SRP enterprises.
participation in a Special               trade credits, tightly linked to
Restructuring Program (SRP). The        specific purchase orders from      2. Privatization of viable
SRP comprises two groups of             creditworthy buyers.                   industrial enterprises as
enterprises making large cash                                                  going concerns, or
losses: (i) two utilities (power and  2. Substantial cost-cutting measures,    liquidation/ asset sale of
rail); and (ii) 23 industrial and agro-  through worker lay-offs, have         unviable industrial
industrial enterprises.                 been completed, satisfactory to        enterprises under
IDA.                                  implementation, satisfactory
2. The Government has discontinued                                                 to IDA.
providing guarantees for bank loans   3. For the two utilities:
to SRP enterprises from                 increasesin tariffs, satisfactory to    3. For the two utilities: tariffs
November 1, 1994.                       IDA                                    have been increased further
and maintained in real
3. Parliament has passed a law                                                     terms to cover operating
enabling implementation of SRP                                                 costs, interest costs and
according to the principles and                                                part of investment costs;
procedures agreed with IDA.                                                    exceptions to the electricity
tariff schedules for specific
4. Announcement to the public of the                                               industrial users will be
SRP program.                                                                   limited to 10 percent in the
case of 110 kV users and
surplus labor-shedding
completed.



Reform Objective            ..     .... Tak                            -.3 Coi t                              o
111. Privatization          1. Completion of review of 368         1. Ninety-one enterprises privatized,   1. Another 700 enterprises
internal share privatization cases.    comprising 70 small, 16 medium      privatized or liquidated,
and 5 large.                        comprising 535 small,
2. Ninety-six enterprises privatized.                                          125 medium and 40 large.
2. Completion of review of all
3. 5000 square meters of business         internal share privatization cases.   2. Frozen FX Deposit Scheme
premises sold.                                                             implemented in a manner
3. Frozen FX Deposit Scheme             satisfactory to IDA.
4. Parliament passed Law on scheme        operative according to procedures,
for swap of FX deposits to            satisfactory to IDA.              3. Offer for Sale of 100,000
enterprise shares.                                                         square meters of business
4. Implementation of-the scheme for     premises according to
sale of Goverment-owned             procedures satisfactory to
business premises to the private    IDA.
sector started.
4. New Commercial Code and
5. New Commercial Code has             the Law on
reached first reading in            Denationalization and
Parliament.                         Restitution are in place.
5. Submission to Parliament
of satisfactory draft
Bankruptcy Code and Law
on Public Enterprises.
N..
0



Meg ures Already                              ; enttio: ..                 Seeond Tranche
Reform Objecti                          Takn                                 C itiConditions
IV. Banking Reforms          1. Selective credits and central bank    1. Liquidation of BNT filed with      1. Final settlement of dispute
rediscounts abolished.                  courts and BNT's banking license      with banks on remaining
revoked.                              frozen foreign exchange
2. Bank of Foreign Trade (BNT)                                                    deposits
ordered to cease operations due to    2. Most foreign exchange deposits
illiquidity and insolvency.             and all foreign credits extended by  2. Removal of all remaining
the Paris Club creditors prior to     foreign credits extended
3. Bank Rehabilitation Agency               April 30, 1992 removed from           prior to April 30, 1992
established.                            balance sheets of banks as of         from the balance sheets of
January 1, 1995.                      banks.
4. Some key prudential regulations
adopted.                            3. Ten percent of Stopanska spun-off  2. If needed to reach target
and privatized.                       size of Stopanska, further
5. International audit of four largest                                            divestiture and privatization
banks completed.                    4. Restoration of liquidity to the core   of branches/assets.
Stopanska.
6. Strengthening of bank supervision                                          3. Core Stopanska fully
on-going with international         5. Satisfactory prudential regulation     recapitalized and privatized
assistance.                             on connected lending adopted.         (51 percent), including
expected EBRD share, and
7. Agreement to relieve banks of                                                  private governance
frozen foreign currency deposits and                                          established.
foreign credits reached.
4. Completion of prudential
regulatory framework, and
enhancement of central
bank enforcement powers,
l_____________________________________  ____________________________________      satisfactory    to  the  IDA.
civD
rtr'



Reor  Obztv                       Masuesw Aley               zo+.4 .P.ntet .,,Seod Tr iche
V. Social Safety Net       1. Revision of Labor Relations and     1. Submit to Bank satisfactory draft   1. Adopt revised Law on
Unemployment Insurance                Law on Labor Relations to reduce    Labor Relations
Legislation                           advance notice of termination of
workers to: (i) one month for   2. Establish Labor
2. Revision of Pension and Disability    individual and small-scale layoffs;  Redeployment Fund to be
Legislation                           and (ii) three months for large-    managed by Privatization
scale layoffs (greater than         Agency and make a
3. Expansion of Social Assistance        150 workers per enterprise or five  government deposit of
Program                               percent of the labor force in the   US$0.3 million equivalent
affected community).               to finance active labor
4. Severance payments for SRP                                                market services.
enterprises provided for in the   2. Provide revenues for clearance of
budget.                               arrears on unemployment         3. Payments on social
compensation in first half of      assistance and
5. Arrears on social assistance in 1994  FY95.                               unemployment
cleared.                                                                  compensation are not in
3. Submit to Bank satisfactory plan,   arrears.
6. Benefits under PSEP equalized for     including a draft law if needed, to
all categories of beneficiaries.      bring the Pension Fund into     4. Adopt revised Pension and
financial equilibrium in 1995 and   Disability Law.
protect low-income pensioners.
OQ z
0
47 X



- 34 -
F'ORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACE-DONIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Status of ComnlHance with ERL Conditions
Government ?oic Measures/Act- 1|   >ions0     0    0    :~ I,&d  0en  J   a  of Compliance
Sustainable Stabilization
Stabilize economy                       0  Approval by Parliament of a 1994 budget consistent with overall    Done
macroeconomic objectives.
Initiate a set of fiscal reforms to ensure  *  Provision in the 1994 budget approved by Parliament of    Done
successful implementation of structural     transparent fiscal support to structural reforms of about 4 percent
reforms and to support private sector       of GSP: (i) bank restructuring (servicing of banks external debt
development.                                obligations assumed by the state and costs associated to the bank
restructuring program); and (ii) targeted assistance to finance
closure and restructuring costs of enterprises under the
privatization program andlor loss-makers (such as retraining of
laid-off workers, increased unemployment benefits and social
assistance outlays, costs of closing down operations and
environmental clean up). The fiscal support will be in the form of
a contingent budget reserve to be used explicidy for bank
rehabilitation and enterprise restructuring. Use and possible
reallocation of these funds will be reviewed at mid-year.
*  Reduction of share of quotas in total imports classification positions  Done
from 16 to 4 percent. Agreement on a plan of action for the
implementation of an auction system for remaining quotas.
*  Further liberalization of prices (milk, water supply, central heating,  Done
car insurance, municipal rents).                           _



- 35 -
_bjectiv.                      o                                  Bad   .e.tio .tat.iS  of Compliance
Implement income policies to cut off price-   *  Approval of legislation by Parliament to set ceilings on wage  Done
wage spiral.                               increase in socially-owned enterprises and in the general
government, with only partial indexation of the cost of living.
Implement monetary policy consistent with   *  Approval by Parliament of appropriate legislation to eliminate the    Done
stabilization and improve monetary          granting of new selective credits as of March 31, 1994.
management.
Financial Sector Reform
Measures to restore financial and       *  Submission to Parliament of Law on Commercial Properties     Done
operational soundness of banking system.    allowing the use of frozen foreign exchange deposits for purchase
of commercial properties.
*  Finalization of terms of reference for extended audits of the entire   Done. International
portfblio of four commercial banks by international auditing firms.  audits of four
commercial banks
completed.
*  Assumption of portions of foreign liabilities of banks       Done. Liabilities being
corresponding to credits in foreign currency in default for which  assumed in the process
agreements exist as to arrears clearance.                   of bank restructuring
under FESAC.
*  Submission to Parliament of amendment to Law on Banks and    Done. Bank
Savings Institutions establishing the agency responsible for the  Rehabilitation Agency
commercial banks rehabilitation process.                    established.



- 36 -
_______________________________I     MIA                                      J  ~~~~~~~~~~Status of Compliance
-~ ~~i -t -                  ---0                     c M    rtAi          y    rd Pr's   in
Enterprise Sector Reform                                                                                                        |
Rapid implementation of Enterprise Reform   *  Issuance of the organization and work program for the      Done
to ensure adjustment in enterprises.         Privatization Agency, including budgetary allocation, financing
plan and plan of technical assistance for 1994.
*  Submission to Parliament of the Commercial Code.              Done. Parliamentary
action expected under
FESAC.
*  Establishment of task force to formulate and execute strategy with    Done. Implementation
regard to large loss-makers, with the commitment to ensure   of program to be
reduction of losses of enterprises whose prices are controlled by  undertaken under
the state.                                                   FESAC
*  Increases in real terms of prices of district heating, electricity and    Done. Increases,
oil derivatives; announcement of policy to liberalize the first and to  however, were
set prices for the others that will allow financial viability of the  insufficient to cover
relevant enterprises.                                        cost. Additional price
increases being required
under FESAC.
Labor Markets and Sodal Safety Net Reforns
Increase labor mobility.                 *  Presentation to Parliament of amendments to Labor Relations and    Done
Employment laws including: (i) removal of restrictions on labor
redundancies following ntice and payment of a termination grant;
(ii) reduction of financial obligations of employers with respect to
severance pay for layoffs; (iii) separate provision of payroll-funded
unemployment compensation for all laid-off workers subject to
bendit ceilings and for limited duration; and (iv) provision of
measures to encourage self-employment and re-employment.



- 37 -
| 44 0,  ',  i....^                                            00,4 i;0 | 0 0 wx Y tz j0, j, ,:             ' '.  t  i    Statu of Compliance
bjective         (3overnment Po~licy, MesrsAtos~BadPesentationi)              _________
Better Targeting of Social Assistance.   *  Establishment of a targeted bread subsidy scheme replacing    Done
existing general subsidy on price.
Reduce unsustainable pension benefits and    0  Presentation of Pension Law reform to Parliament, incorporating:    Done
tighten entitlement.                        (i) Abolishment of early retirement schemes, including early
retirement privileges for military and police; (ii) Increase in the
retirement age for individuals with 20 insurance periods to
60 years for women and 63 years for men by 1/2 year every year
starting January 1994; (iii) increase in the retirement age for
women with 15 insurance periods from 60 years to 63 years by
1/2 year every year starting January 1994; (iv) change in the
assessment period of the best ten consecutive years of work to the
entire working life of an individual for new pensioners;
(v) increase in the assessment period for military and police
pensions from the best one year to the 10 best consecutive years;
(vi) reduction in the target replacement rate from 85 percent to
80 percent of the pension base; (vii) increase in the payroll tax rate
from 18 percent to 20 percent of gross wage; and (viii) continued
restrictive indexation policy that ties pension growth to wages in
the non-economic sector.
r.
0



- 57 -
SCHEDtLEI
Sununara of Proposd Prourement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement MattersO
ICBfW                    Otherf                 aI2
50.0                     35.0                    85.0
" Estimated amounts.
W ICB for contracts of USS 3 million or more.
Minimum contract amount - US$10,000.
International shopping for contracts of US$10,000 to US$ 3 million.



- 58 -
SCHE:DULE C
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTIENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:                One year
2.    Project prepared by:                  Government with IDA assistance
3.    Identification mission:               March 1994
4.    Appraisal mission:                    January 1995
5.    Negotiations:                         April 1995
6.    Planned Board Presentation            May 18, 1995
7.    Planned effectiveness:                June 1, 1995
8.    Expected project completion:          March 31, 1996
9.    Relevant SAR:                         None



- 59 -
SCHEDULE D
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Status of Bank Group Operations in FYR of Macedonia
STATEMENT OF BANK/IDA LOANS/CREDITS
(as of December 31, 1994)
Ln.ICr .                         '''''-. (US m,l.ion)
-::- No. F:    ----Borrower          Purpose                    
3703-MK   94   FYR Macedonia  Economic Recovery Loan         40.0          0.0
2564-MK   94   FYR Macedonia  Economic Recovery Credit       40.1          0.0
80.1          0.0



I



FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                                               /,,.
_ >  /                                ~~~~FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
i ' ~~ '  G=bric= \        Presev=*t t     ,   o. _           /   ~~ , _, _,                <                              __                    M   A  C  E D  O   N  I A
.F <  ! > *  x ,*rnloce , k - Jl.gn.sL vo-, n * McliorciFes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ajo ciie
, K  (   f - vo  Jegufovee*    * x - s  \   I *                 vorq        *                                                              @         Seleced cities~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seectd ctie
<4   \   }  t Tetovo /'   1    ' '  J   reli=-cbce                          p  - -\r                                                        *         Notionol Copitol~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ntionl Coita
t  \  2^57.- / @   O         \                      \         8>' { "    ~~~~~Ko-oi   ,/;-Priroary roads
'   z,      l           q                          ;                   t          ,1 nv            -                                                                                 Secondary roorls
2 p'-     G-6-1=  I        0                                                                                                                                                                 Flectrffied radlronds
1,0   * t    r  ,^    g              i;                           V     ;                        P                                                                                            Ote rairp o ads
)  'f                    {                 r)         a  M-r-k                                                                            ^    \                                                   Spot elevations iri ncltets
-  - K  -, L  L - ' - / E7 i \ 8 InternrJlionol boundr)llos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ntrntioalbo)nd,,,,
t   ;\  3e   (     1          ~~Kru-o=       A  1      j/      ,Kvdoc                           
lUb-=hd                                                                                                                              D tua ijn      SaiA    u  Ls.(e.s.. 
~~~~~~~o                                                                                                                                                                                  TT 1 °°'Ree°C     sjcj . _ _  
!   \   Ohr,d . v - *-~2-.   ,AV rrPto-lJa
A  L B A  N  I A      Kre/>                                                                                            /         lITALY                                                                             -   
A                                                                                                                                                                                        Eo









FILE COPY
FC~C/ /iI
Report No: P-   6539 MK
Type: PR



