Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                                   TF 020837
                                            RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2721 MK
                     Netherlands Grant Agreement
         (in Conjunction with the Financial and Enterprise Sector
                          Adjustment Credit)
                               between
               THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                            (the Beneficiary)
                                  and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               Acting as Administrator on behalf of the
            NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
                         Dated February 1, 1996
                                                                   TF 020837
                                            RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2721 MK
                       NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1996, between The BENEFICIARY
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association), acting as Administrator (the Administrator) on
behalf of the NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
(the Minister).
      WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
(Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit), between
the Beneficiary and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the
Beneficiary a Credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,700,000) to assist
in the financing of a project (the Project) as defined in
Section 1.01 (a) to the Development Credit Agreement;
      (B)   pursuant to the General Arrangement, dated May 24,
1995, entered into between the Minister and the Association,
the Minister has appointed the Association as Administrator of
the Grant and has authorized the Association to do all such
acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out
such administration, including entering into this Netherlands
Grant Agreement on behalf of the Minister, and to extend the
Page  2
Grant on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      (C)   pursuant to the Arrangement, dated November 10, 1995,
entered into between the Minister and the Association (the
Administration Arrangement), the Minister has decided to make
available to the Beneficiary, a grant to cofinance the Project
on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; and
      (D)   the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to act as Administrator of the Grant;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Association acting as Administrator of
the Grant;
      (b)   the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Beneficiary;
      (c)   the term "Credit", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Grant;
      (d)   the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the
General Conditions and herein, means the separate account
opened by the Administrator in its books in the name of the
Beneficiary.
      (e)   the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever
used in the General Conditions, means this Netherlands Grant
Agreement;
      (f)   Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,
4.04, 4.06, Section 6.02 (except paragraph (a) thereof), 7.01,
8.01 (a), 12.05, and the second sentence of Section 5.01, are
deleted; and
      (g)   in Sections 2.01 and 6.02, the term "Association"
shall include also the Bank acting in its own capacity.
      Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Grant
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Beneficiary, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement and subject to the receipt of the funds to
be made available to the Administrator pursuant to the
Administration Arrangement, a grant in the amount of ten
million Netherlands Guilders (DFL 10,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Beneficiary and the Administrator, for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in
Page  3
respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out of the Project
and to be financed out of the Grant excluding the provisions of
paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 1 of  the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of the Development Credit
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant shall be governed by the relevant provisions
referred to in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Beneficiary of such
later date.
                            ARTICLE III
                           Termination;
                          Representatives
      Section 3.01. The Minister of Finance of the Beneficiary
is designated as representative of the Beneficiary for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 3.02. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement shall be the addresses
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit
Agreement.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         THE BENEFICIARY
                         By /s/ Ljubica Acevska
                                                Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           as Administrator on behalf of the
                           NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR
                           DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
                         By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  4
