CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 405 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sugar Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 405 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sugar Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have thc respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "sugar PNPs" means PNP XIV, PNP XV, PNP XVI, PNP XX, PNP
XXI, PNP XXII, PNP XXIV and PNP XXV, all being state-owned estate enterprises
(Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan) of the Borrower in Java, established and so
designated respectively by Government Regulation No. 14 of 1968;
(b)   "sugar PT" means any company limited by shares (Perseroan Terbatas
Perkebunan) which has been reincorporated pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.05 of this Agreement from one or more sugar PNPs and which owns one or
more factories to be rehabilitated under Parts A or B of the Project, and any
successor or successors thereto;
(c)   "date of incorporation" means the date upon which the approved
charter of the sugar PT is registered in the appropriate District Court;
(d)   "BBD" means Bank Bumi Daya, a state-owned bank of the Borrower;
(e)   "SCS" means the Standing Committee for Sugar to be established
pursuant to Section 4.05 of this Agreement;


﻿4
(f) "Joint Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into initially
by the sugar PNPs pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(g)   "Joint Sugar Projects Unit" means the unit to be established by the
Joint Agreement; and
(h)   "rupiah" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied frori. such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrowei shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1983, and ending April 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America iQ hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
relend the proceeds of the Credit relating to Parts A, B and E(i)(b) and (c) of
the Project to the sugar PTs pursuant to the terms and procedures set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed,
consultants accepi-ble to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association as follows:
(i)         the Joint Sugar Projects Unit shall employ consultants to provide
engineering services to assist in preparing and supervising the
factory rehabilitations included in Parts A, B, and E(i)(c) of the
Project;
(ii)        BBD shall employ consultants to assist in the appraisal of sugar
factory rehabilitations;
(iii)       each sugar PT shall employ within four months of its date of
incorporation, or such other date as may be agreed between the


﻿6
Borrower and the Association, consultants to provide financial,
field and factory advice to the management of such sugar PT
and to help train the staff of such sugar PT;
(iv)        the Borrower shall employ consultants to carry out Part E(ii)
of the Project; and
(v)         Pasuruan Research Station shall employ consultants to assist in
carrying out Part D of the Project.
(b)   For each factory rehabilitation included in Parts A and B of the Project,
the sugar PT owning such factory shall enter into a separate agreement with the
Joint Sugar Projects Unit referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this Section for the
provision of said engineering services.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the factory rehabilitations included in Parts
A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified and experienced contractors, as required.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, before a
plan for any factory rehabilitation included in the Project is prepared, the Borrower
shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, a survey to determine to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that sufficient land would be available to
provide an adequate supply of cane to such sugar factory after such rehabilitation
is completed.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all rehabilitations included in Parts A and
B of the Project to be carried out pursuant to a time schedule prepared by the
Joint Sugar Projects Unit and approved by the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the sugar PNPs to be reincorporated into no more than four
PTs within thirty months of the date of this Agreement:
(i)         under charters acceptable to the Association;
(ii)        with their respective Supervisory Boards (Dewan Komisaris) and
Boards of Executive Management (Direksi) appointed in
accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section,
respectively; and
(iii)       with the opening balance sheets for each such PT having been
transmitted to the Association.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of members of the
respective Supervisory Boards (Dewan Komisaris) of the sugar PTs shall at all times
be filled by qualified and experienced persons and that three positions on the
Supervisory Board (Deivan Komisaris) of each sugar PT shall be filled preferably
by the same persons, one of whom shall serve as chairman, one of whom shall
be experienced in financial administration and the last of whom shall be experienced
in the sugar industry. Before any appointment is made to the above-mentioned
positions of chairman and member with experience in financial administration, the
Borrower shall inform the Association of the name, qualifications and experience
of the persons being considered for appointment to such positions and afford the
Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the
qualifications and experience of such persons.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that the respective Boards of Executive
Management (Direksi) of the sugar PTs shall consist of a First Director, Production
Director (field), Production Director (factory), Financial Director and Comptroller,
that these positions are at all times filled by qualified and experienced persons
and that before any appointment is made to any such position, the Association
is informed of the name, qualifications and experience of the persons being
considered for appointment to such positions and is afforded a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and
experience of such persons.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause the assets of the sugar PNPs which are reincorporated as PTs pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section or which are transferred to any
such PTs to be valued within six months of the date of such reincorporation or
transfer in  accordance   with  appropriate  commercial accounting    principles
consistently applied and the laws of the Borrower governing such reincorporations
or transfers.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the sugar PNPs to establish a
Joint Sugar Projects Unit, with headquarters in Surabaya, under a Joint Agreement,
the terms and conditions of which shall be satisfactory to the Association and
which shall include, inter alia, responsibility for the coordination of all factory
rehabilitations included in Parts A and B of the Project, for joint procurement
therefor and for the employment of the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a)(i)
of this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that each sugar PT to which the assets of
a sugar PNP are transferred shall assume the obligations of such sugar PNP under
the Joint Agreement upon the transfer of such assets thereto.


﻿8
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, credit and extension services shall be provided to cane farmers
supplying cane to the sugar PTs.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause each sugar PT to employ full-time a qualified and. experienced person
to arrange for the provision of credit and extension services to the smallholder
cane farmers who supply cane to such sugar PT with a view to impro,-ng the
quantity and quality of such cane.
Section 3.09. Until the completion of each sugar PT's respective part of
the Project, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
each sugar PT not to undertake any major capital expenditures, other than those
included in the Project, which exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 in any one
year.
Section 3.10. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwive agree, the
Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to permit the sugar PTs (i)
to lease land for the purpose of sugar production both inside and outside their
respective concession areas tor consecutive periods of at least 28 months, and (ii)
to ratoon sugar cane.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the minimum rental levels of the leases
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section are annually set so as to provide
sufficient incentives to landowners to lease their land to the sugar PTs.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures, including but
not limited to setting appropriate marketing policies, to provide consumers with
sugar at stable and equitable prices.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or cause to be insured,
or make or cause to be made adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable for the Borrower or the sugar PTs to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿9
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause the sugar PTs and the Pasuruan
Research Station to: (i) maintain separate records adequate to record the progress
of their respective Parts of the Project (including the cost thereof) and identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in their respective Parts of the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine their respective Parts of the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning their respective Parts of the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall make available, or cause to be acquired,
any additional land as may be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in Parts A and B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the sugar PTs at all times to maintain
their financial positions and carry on their operations in accordance with
appropriate agricultural, commercial, engineer*ng and financial practices under the
supervision of competent and experienced management assisted by adequate and
competent staff.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the sugar PTs, and with respect
to the relending arrangements referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, BBD,
to maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate commercial accounting practices the respective operations
and financial conditions of such sugar PTs and BBD.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the sugar PTs, the Pasuruan Research Station
and, with respect to the relending arrangements referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, BBD to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and for the sugar PTs, such


﻿10
auditors to be initially appointed by each such sugar PT within 3 months of its
date of incorporation; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each year (A) certified copies
of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the above-mentioned accounts and financial statements of
the sugar PTs, the Pasuruan Research Station and BBD and the audits thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the sugar PTs, the Pasuruan Research Station,
and, with respect to the relending arrangements referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, BBD to: (i) promptly submit quarterly to the Association summary
accounts and progress reports in a form satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)
submit annually to the Association unaudited accounts no later than three months
after the end of each fiscal year.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the sugar PTs to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance a,..inst such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall set, or permit to be set, the ex-factory
price of sugar in accordance with appropriate business, commercial and financial
practices.
Section 4.05. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
establish, no later than January 1, 1974, a standing committee for sugar (SCS)
to coordinate the activities of the Borrower's sugar industry under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
perfonrmance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿11
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the sugar PTs
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the sugar PTs,
the lease rental levels and the ex-factory sugar prices which are to be set pursuant
to Sections 3.10 and 4.04 of this Agreement respectively and, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿12
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any of the sugar PTs shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by any of the sugar
PTs or by others whereby any property of any of the sugar PTs shall or may
be distributed among its creditors.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taKen any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the sugar PTs
or for the suspension of all or part of the operations of any of the sugar PTs
unless arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been made for the
assumption and performance of all the obligations of such sugar PT upon such
dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
(c)   The legislation and charters establishing the sugar PNPs or the sugar
PTs, the provisions of the Joint Agreement or the terms of reference of SCS shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower, the sugar PNPs or
the sugar PTs to carry out the covenants, agreements and objectives set forth in
this Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿13
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the sugar PNPs with factories at Sragi, Pesantren and Gempolkrep have
been reincorporated into two PTs under charters acceptable to the Association,
the persons selected to serve on the Supervisory Boards (Dewan Konisaris) and
the Boards of Executive Management (Direksi) thereof have been appointed
pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement and have taken up their posts, and
the opening balance sheets for such PTs have been transmitted to the Association;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Joint Agreement on behalf of the
sugar PNPs have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(c)   the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement have
been appointed.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of tie General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   the two PTs reincorporated from the sugar PNPs with factories of Sragi,
Pesantren and Gempolkrep are legal entities duly organized and operating under
the laws of the Borrower; and
(b)   the Joint Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the sugar PNPs and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the sugar PNPs in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date December 7, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.07, 3.08,
3.10, 3.11 and Article IV, and the provisions of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this
Agreement, shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿14
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WiTNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Abdul Habir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿16
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
*       Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.         Machinery and           21,000,000          100% of foreign ex-
equipment for                               penditures (c.i.f.),
the major re-                               95% of local expen-
habilitations                               ditures (ex-factory)
in Part A of                                and 83% of other lo-
the Project                                 cal expenditures
II.        Machinery and           16,500,000          100% of foreign ex-
equipment for                               penditures (c.i.f.),
the minor re-                               95% of local expen-
habilitations                               ditures (ex-factory)
in Part B of                                and 83% of other lo-
the Project                                 cal expenditures
Ill.       Engineering              3,700,000          100% of foreign ex-
services for                                penditures
Parts A, B
and E(i)(c)
of the Proj-
ect
IV.        Consultants'               200,000          100% of foreign ex-
services to                                 penditures
assist BBD
appraisal
capacity
V.         Consultants'             1,800,000          100% of foreign ex-
services to                                 penditures
provide man-
agement ad-
vice to
sugar PTs
(including
staff train-
ing)


﻿17
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
VI.        Consultants'              500,000          100% of foreign ex-
services to                                penditures
carry out
feasibility
studies
VII.       Consultants'             1,300,000         100% of foreign ex-
services,                                  penditures (for
training and                               equipment, c.i.f.),
equipment for                              95% of local expen-
the Pasuruan                               ditures (ex-factory)
Research                                   and 83% of other lo-
cal expenditures
VIII.      Unallocated              5,000,000
TOTAL        50,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under Category VII until consultants are appointed
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02(a)(v) of this Agreement;
(c)   expenditures under Category II for any sugar PNP owning a factory
to be rehabilitated out of the proceeds of the Credit until evidence satisfactory


﻿18
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that such PNP
is either (i) liquidated and reincorporated into a PT pursuant to the provisions
of Section 3.05 of this Agreement, or (ii) liquidated and the assets thereof
transferred to an existing sugar PT or existing sugar PTs pursuant to arrangements
satisfactory to the Association. In the event that such sugar PNP is reincorporated
into a PT, the Borrower shall also ensure that an opinion or opinions satisfactory
to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association shall be furnished to
the Association showing that such PT is a company limited by shares (Perseroan
Terbatas Perkebunan), duly organized and operating under the laws of the Borrower,
and that the appointments to such PT's Supervisory Board (Dewan Komisaris) and
Board of Executive Management (Direksi) have been validly made; and
(d)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of


﻿19
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a program to develop the Borrower's sugar industry.
It consists of the following:
Part A:      Major rehabilitation of the sugar factories at Sragi in Central Java and
at Pesantren and Gempolkrep in East Java by the sugar PTs which
own such factories, and the provision of related agricultural and cane
transportation improvements, so as to increase the annual capacity of
said factories by a total of about 1.1 million tons of sugar cane.
Part B:      Minor rehabilitation of about six sugar factories in Java by the sugar
PTs which own such factories, and the provision of related agricultural
and cane transportation improvements, so as to increase the annual
capacity of said factories by a total of about eight hundred thousand
tons of sugar cane.
Part C:     Provision of extension services and credit facilities to cane farmers
supplying cane to the factories included in Parts A and B of the Project.
Part D:      Expansion and improvement of sugar research at the Pasuruan Research
Station by the provision of technical assistance, training and
equipment.
Part E:     (i)          Consultant's services: (a) to assist BBD in the appraisal
of sugar factory rehabilitations, (b) to provide financial,
field and factory advice to the management of the sugar
PTs, and the training of sugar PT staff, and (c) to carry
out engineering studies for additional sugar factory
rehabilitations in Java.
(ii)        Feasibility studies: to determine the scope of further
phases of the Borrower's program to develop its sugar
industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    The Borrower shall cause the sugar PTs to procure the machinery and
equipment referred to in Categories I and II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
and therefor all references in this Schedule to the Borrower shall be deemed to
include the sugar PTs as well.
2.    With respect to any contract for machinery or equipment under Categories
I and II of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of such consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform   the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿22
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for machinery or equipment under
Categories I and II, or any contract for equipment under Category VII, of paragraph
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the pr9cedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.    For the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project, identical or similar
items to be procured shall be grouped together to the extent practicable for the
purpose of inviting bids.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 and paragraphs 2 and 3 of
this Schedule, the Borrower may award, or may cause to be awarded, contracts
for machinery and equipment not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000 without
resort to international competition, provided that such contracts are awarded in
accordance with appropriate business and procurement practices. Two conformed
copies of any such contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
6.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in


﻿23
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
7.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
8.    For goods included in Categories 1, 11 and VII of the table set out in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by
the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by
adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred
Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal
to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
9.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared             Preference
1.              All Preferred Domestic Bids and            None
Non-preferred Domestic Bids.
it.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Sta e 1, if     Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all           Preference
Foreign Bids;                              Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1,        None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with
all Foreign Bids.
III.            If lowest evaluated bid under Stage        None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage 1, all Foreign Bids.


﻿24
10.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Procedures of Relending
Arrangements to Sugar PTs
1.   Relending Terms
The Borrower will relend the proceeds of the Credit relating to Parts A and
B (including the services of the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a)(i) of
this Agreement) and Parts E(i)(b) and (c) of the Project, and will lend such other
funds as may be required for the carrying out of Parts A, B, and E(i)(b) and
(c) of the Project and which are to be provided through BBD by the Borrower,
to the sugar PTs under a loan agreement between BBD, acting on behalf of the
Borrower, and each respective sugar PT for each factory rehabilitation and its related
agricultural and cane transportation improvements. The loan agreement will require
the sugar PT to repay the principal amount of the loan to BBD within a period
of 15 years from the date of such agreement, including a grace period of 5 years,
at an interest rate of 12% per annum on the amount withdrawn and outstanding,
payable as well during the grace period. Early repayment of the loan will not
be subject to any penalty. For executing and administering the loan agreements
with the sugar PTs and for reviewing and appraising the rehabilitations under the
Project, the Borrower will pay to BBD an annual fee of not more than 1% of
the total principal amount of the loans made and outstanding to the sugar PTs.
BBD will promotly repay to the Borrower the principal and interest received from
the sugar PTs under such loan agreements, I ss the annual fee referred to above.
The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Borrower and the security to be
provided by the sugar PTs under such loan agreements will be as BBD shall
reasonably request.
2.    Relending Procedures
Before any factory rehabilitation included in 'he Project is planned, the
survey referred to in Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement must be carried out for
such factory and the results thereof transmitte(L to the Board of Executive
Management (Direksi) of the relevant sugar PT and the Association for their
respective approval. If such Board of Executive Management (Direksi) and the
Association determine that sufficient land would be available to provide an adequate
supply of cane to such factory after the rehabilitation is completed, the Borrower
will cause the sugar PTs to proceed in the following manner.
For both major and minor rehabilitations, sugar PTs owning a factory or
factories included in Parts A or B of the Project will initially sign an agreement


﻿26
with consultants pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement
for the provision of engineering services for the rehabilitation of a specified factory.
The detailed proposal prepared by such consultants for such factory rehabilitation
will be submitted to the sugar PT's Board of Executive Management (Direksi) for
its approval, and after obtaining such approval, the sugar PT will attach the detailed
proposal to a formal application to BBD for a loan, in such form as BBD shall
require. BBD will then:
(a)   for major rehabilitations included in Part A of the Project, review the
application. After approving such application, BBD will transmit the
proposals to the Association for its approval and after receiving the
Association's approval, BBD will enter into a loan agreement to provide
funds for the rehabilitation of such specified factory with such sugar
PT (i) for a principal amount as determined by BBD on the basis
of such application, as approved, and (ii) pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 1 of this Schedule; or
(b)   for minor rehabilitations included in Part B of the Project, appraise
the application with the assistance of the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02(a)(ii) oi diis Agreement. After approving such application,
BBD will transmit the proposals to the Association for its approval,
together with BBD's appraisal report and its recommendations thereon.
After receiving the Association's approval, BBD will enter into a loan
agreement to provide funds for the rehabilitation of such specified
factory with such sugar PT (i) for a principal amount as determined
by BBD on the basis of such application, as approved, and (ii) pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
3.    BBD Appraisal Procedures
In appraising proposals for the factory rehabilitations included in Part B of
the Project, BBD will, in particular, satisfy itself that:
(a)   the application and the proposed rehabilitation is acceptable to the
sugar PT's Board of Executive Management (Direksi), approved by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement and
included in a program accepted by SCS;
(b)   conditions for sugar cane growing in the proposed factory supply area
are satisfactory, and irrigation and drainage facilities are, or can
reasonably be expected to become, adequate for the proposed cane
supply;


﻿27
(c)   adequate labor will be available for the rehabilitation work and for
the cultivation and harvesting of the forecast crop;
(d)   the factory has been inspected and the proposals are reasonable having
regard to its condition and the cane supply available to it;
(e)   there are no plans for amalgamation of the factory with other units;
(f)   adequate staff will be provided by the sugar PT to carry out the
rehabilitation, with assistance from the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement;
(g)   adequate contracting facilities are available for removal of old plant
and installation of new;
(h)   costs are reasonably calculated and confirmed by enquiries made by
the consultants;
(i)   forecasts in the proposals are satisfactory and based on realistic
assumptions;
the financial rate of return (before tax) on the proposed investment,
calculated on a discounted incremental cash flow basis, comparing cash
flow with and without rehabilitation, over 15 years, would be at least
25% per year;
(k)   financial control and auditing arrangements would be satisfactory; and
(1)   procurement arrangements are satisfactory and will ensure competitive
bidding.
4.    BBD Appraisal Reports
The BBD appraisal report will be based on the following outline:
(a)   summary and recommendations;
(b)   background, agricultural and industrial, including recent performance
and characteristics of the unit (factory and field), reasons for selection,
outcome of cane supply survey, supported by Annexes containing a
summary of recent production reports; a list of directors of the
Supervisory Board (Dewan Komisaris) .Ad Board of Executive


﻿28
Management (Direksi), senior staff and their qualifications; staff and
labor available for rehabilitation work;
(c)   recent financial performance of the factory and the sugar PT, supported
by summarized balance sheets and profit and loss accounts, which in
the case of the factory shall be over at least a three-year period;
(d)   description of rehabilitation work proposed, supported by Annexes
containing an inventory of the factory and transportation equipment
and its condition; items to be replaced or repaired, and reasons; phasing
of work proposed; possible bottlenecks and proposals for overcoming
them;
(e)   summary cost estimates with explanations, supported by Annexes
detailing items to be purchased in rupiah and dollar equivalents, divided
into estimated local and foreign costs, and distinguishing between
factory,  field  and   transportation  equipment,    installation  and
consultancy costs, and working capital requirements; physical and price
contingencies separately stated;
(f)   forecast production, with and without the rehabilitation, supported
by Annexes detailing expected cane,area, yields, rendement, factory
outturn, unit costs;
(g)   proposed financing (by years): self-generated, from BBD, long-term and
short-term, foreign and local;
(h)   proposed repayment plan, showing expected surpluses;
(i)   financial implications for the sugar PT, supported by Annexes showing
five-year forecast balance sheets, profit and loss accounts and cash flow;
(j)   financial rate of return, with sensitivity analysis, e.g. to price and cost
changes;
(k)   accounts and audit, including any proposed changes in the accounting
system and restrictions or conditions proposed; and
(1)   proposed   procurement, local or foreign; preference for domestic
suppliers; procedures; expected origin of goods, if clearly indicated.


