Report No. 1463a-YAR                                                            FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Port Development Project
Yemen Arab Republic
May 5, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by
recipients only in the performance of their official duties. I ts contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                         Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.5
YRl 1                        US$ 0.22
YRls 1,000         =         US$ 222.22
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)                           1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)                           0.98 long ton
1 centimeter (cm)                              0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                    1.09 yard
1 centimeter (cm)                              10 millimeters (mm)
1 kilometer (km)                               0.62 mile
1 square meter (m2)                            10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                             45.50 cubic feet
1 square kilometer (km2)            =          0.384 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS
GPO                         -          Central Planning Organization
DWT                         -          Deadweight ton
MLWST                       -          Mean Low Water Spring Tides
UNDP                                   United Nations Development Program
YAR                         -         Yemen Arab Republic
PMAC                        -          Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
IDA                         -          International Development Association
USSR                        -          Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
NOTES
1. A ton means a metric ton throughout this report.
2. Unless otherwise specified, references to water depth in this
report refer to the datum of Mean Low Water Spring Tides (MLWST).
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . ..................... . . . . . .   .            i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION .. .......                    ....................               1
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .................................                        2
A.   The Country and Its Economy  ...          .............                  2
B.    The Transport System . ..................... .                          3
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination                              4
D.    Previous Projects in the Transport Sector              .......          5
III.    PORT FACILITIES, ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION ..........                        5
A.    Present Port Facilities in YAR                ...................       5
B.    Organization and Management              .....................          7
C.    Port Operations and Productivity .............           ...          10
IV. THE PROJECT ...                            ........    11
A.   The Investment Program                 ..........................       11
B.   Project Objectives            ....................                      12
C.    Project Description ..............        .. .............             12
D.    Cost Estimates  . ...................................                  14
E.    Financing Plan ........... . . .  .......................... .        16
F.    Implementation .................       ..     ...............         17
G.    Disbursement and Retroactive Financing               ..........        19
H.    Impact on Employment ..............        ..     ............         19
I.    Environment ....... .............           .................         19
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..................................                       20
A.    Traffic Growth ..................................                     20
B.    Project Benefits ................................                     21
C.    Economic Costs of the Project ...................                     21
D.    Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis               ........        22
E.  Project Risks               .................                           22
VI.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION .................................                       22
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS .........           .............................            24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uwed by recipients only in the performanc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1. Existing Port Facilities: Additional Details
2. Present and Future Port Operations and Capacity
3. Detailed Description of Project Components
4. Detailed Project Cost Estimates
5. Economic Analysis of the Project: Details of Data, Assumptions
and Methodology
6. Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
7. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
TABLES
1. Past Traffic Through YAR Ports: 1969-1976
2. Projected Traffic Through YAR Ports: 1977-1985
3. Expected Port-Wise Distribution of Future Traffic, 1977-1985
4.  Estimated Savings in Ship-Time at Hodeidah Port due to the Project
5. Estimate of Overall Economic Savings to YAR, Produced by the Project
6. Rate of Return Calculations: Full Project
7. PMAC: Revenue Accounts
8. PMAC: Estimated Cash Flow Data for 1977 to 1985
9. PMAC: Balance Sheet Data
CHARTS
1. World Bank-17031 - Organization of the PMAC, 1976
2. World Bank-16719 - YAR - Port Development Project - Work Program
and Critical Path
IAP S
IBRD 12564R: YAR Port Development Project, General Location
IBRD 12565R: Port Development Project, Hodeidah Port
IBRD 12566R: Port Development Project, Mocha Port



APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has three sea-ports:  Hodeidah, which
handles over 90% of its traffic, Mocha which is a lighterage port and handles
about 8-10% of the traffic, and Salif, which has specialized facilities for
handling salt exports but no facilities for general cargo. The total traffic
handled by these ports in 1976 was over one million tons, mostly import
traffic, including 0.25 million tons of petroleum products. The presently
available port facilities are extremely inadequate to cope with this level of
traffic, with the result that ships visiting YAR ports in the last quarter of
1976 experienced an average waiting of about three months before getting
berths, leading to heavy losses to the country from higher shipping costs
for imports; such losses are estimated to exceed US$25.0 million during 1976,
and are likely to be much higher in 1977.  Some limited additional facilit-es
are presently under construction, mainly with aid from the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics (USSR) and partly with finances available from the re-
serves of the Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation. However, these facilities
will not be sufficient to meet the expected traffic growth, and consequently
the YAR Government has requested the Association for assistance in further
expanding port facilities in the country.
ii.       The ports of YAR (with the exception of the salt loading installa--
tions in Salif) are presently owned and managed by the Ports and Marine
Affairs Corporation (PMAC), established in April 1976. The Chairman, the
Director-General, and the other five members of PMAC's Board are appointed
by the Government. Five of the Board members, including the Chairman and the
Director-General work on a full-time basis, and take direct operational
responsibility for the ports' management. The Minister of Public Works
exercises overall control over PMAC. The management is generally competent,
but would need further strengthening to execute the proposed project and to
ensure efficient operation of the expanded facilities.
iii.      The main items of the proposed project are:
(a) civil works in Hodeidah covering repair of existing berths;
construction of a new berth (195 m), a 500-ton slipway, and
jetties for harbor craft; paving of storage areas (85,000 m2);
dredging to deepen the harbor channel and basin to 9.0 m
below Mean Low Water Spring Tide (M4LWST) to allow entry of
13,000-14,000 dwt ships in place of the present limit of
about 8,000 dwt ships; rehabilitation and improvement of the
oil terminal; and addition of new buildings and utilities;



(b)  purchase of car-=_                      naV-:-_^ -onal aids and
floating craft mostly for Hoddeadahi;
(c)  civil works in Mocha, to rehabilitate it as a lighterage port;
and
(d)  technical assistance to PIAC. cJmp_asing engineering con-
sultancy for detailed design and supervision of the project;
technical experts to support PMAC management in cargo
handling, cost and management accounting, administration
and documentation, dredging and slipway management; and
professional training for selected PMAC staff.
iv.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$2709 million, of
which US$20.3 million would be in foreign exchange. The project is expected
to be financed by an IDA credit of US$6.0 million, loan(s) from other external
sources, on parallel finance terms, of US$12.0 million (both in foreign ex-
change), US$4.9 million from PMAC's resources (US$2.3 million in foreign ex-
change and the rest in local currency), and US$5.0 million from YAR Government
(in local currency). The IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange costs
of the technical services (excluding slipway project manager), the new berth,
the oil terminal and the harbor craft jetties; it will be given on standard
terms to the YAR Government who will] on-lend the proceeds to PMAC at an in-
terest rate of 9%, to be repaid over 20 years including a grace-period of 5
years. Conclusion of satisfactory agreements to cover the total foreign ex-
change cost of the project is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit.
V.        PMAC will be responsible for carrying out the project, with assist-
ance from engineering consultants provided under the project. PMAC will be
able to do this if they strengthen the management by the recruitment of a
Chief Engineer and other qualified supporting staff; PMAC has agreed to
appoint such professional staff as a matter of priority.  The appointment
of a chief engineer is a cond4tion of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
vi.       Procurement of the project components financed by IDA will be
done on the basis of internt ional  rCIe4t_tie bldding, in accordance with
IDA guidelines; for items financed by other agencies, their respective
procurement procedures w-1l b'e folt1owed,c
vii.      The project is estimated to yield an economic return of above 41%
over its life, and a first-year economic return of 18%. This highlights
the urgency and the strong economic justification that exists for the pro-
posed investments. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project would
yield a high rate of return CF abGu  29%, even if costs increase by 25% and
the benefits decline by 25%, lbotn occ-uring at the same time.
viii.     PMAC's financial si>Uaraor is satisfactory, and is expected to
remain so in future.  Evea  a-fter zibuting YRls 69.4 million for capital
expenditure, PlNC vwill have a --as'  au--plus of YRIs 38.5 milion by 1985.
The rate of return o0 rnet       d assets -uas 1303%  in 1976; it is expected



- iii -
to be 7.9% in 1982 (the year following the completion of the project and the
consequent major increase in the value of fixed assets), rising to 11.1% in
1985.
ix.       There are no significant risks associated with the project.  The
principal risk is a lower than anticipated growth in traffic, but the sensi-
tivity analysis indicates that the project would be justified even if the
traffic increase were considerably less than projected.
x.        The proposed facilities would meet the expected port requirements
in YAR up to about 1985. The economic analysis indicates that the optimal
timing for adding further facilities would be 1985; it would be advisable
to review these future requirements during 1981/82, and PMAC has agreed to
do so.
xi.       Subject to the assurances and credit conditions mentioned in
para. 7.01, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million.



A4



APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the Asso-
ciation's assistance in financing a port development project, in order to
eliminate present port congestion, and to meet the requirements of traffic
growth in the near future. At Dresent, YAR suffers heavy losses from port
congestion, estimated to be over US$25.0 million in 1976, mainly as a result
of higher waiting costs of ships in its ports. The proposed project provides
for expansion of port facilities at Hodeidah and Mocha, the two main ports
of YAR, and for technical assistance to the Ports and Marine Affairs Corpora-
tion (PMAC) which controls and operates the country's ports. On completion,
the project will provide sufficient capacity to absorb the traffic growth ex-
pected up to about 1985, while also modernizing port facilities and increas-
ing port efficiency.
1.02      This will be the Bank Group's first project in YAR's port sub-sector,
and the third in the transport sector; the other two transport projects were
for highway development, (Credit 315-YAR, effective in 1973 and Credit 558-YAR
effective February 1976).  The Grain Storage & Processing Project (Credit 636-
YAR, effective October 1976) marginally touches port facilities, as it provides
for mechanized handling and storage facilities at Hodeidah port for imported
grain. The total cost of the proposed project is estimated to be US$27.9 mil-
lion, of which the Government of YAR and PMAC would provide US$9.9 million,
covering all local costs and US$2.3 million in foreign exchange. The Govern-
ment intends to contract US$12 million in foreign exchange under parallel fi-
nancing arrangements from external sources. The proposed IDA contribution is
US$6 million. The proposed credit would be to the Government of YAR under
standard IDA terms, to be on-lent to PMAC on commercial terms. The project
will be implemented by PMAC with assistance from consultants.
1.03      This report is partly based on a port master plan study for YAR,
prepared during 1975-76 by the consultants Louis Berger International Inc.
and Kampsax financed by the United Nations Development Program and the
Kuwait Fund, with the Bank as the executing agency. While the long-term
strategy for port development outlined by the consultants as to the choice
of ports for selective development, and the physical master plan layout
presented in their study are basically sound, the traffic projections pre-
sented are too low and already outdated by the actual traffic experience
in 1976, and therefore, the time-phasing of investments proposed in the



- 2 -
study has been updated in the light of the latest available information. The
project was pre-appraised in May 1976 and appraised in October 1976. The
Appraisal Mission consisted of Messrs. T. Pankaj (Economist), A. Krishman
(Financial Analyst) and E.J.W. Henry (of Wallace C. Evans and Partners,
United Kingdom; Consultant, Engineer).
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Country and Its Economy
2.01      YAR occupies about 195,000 km2 of largely mountainous terrain in
the southwest corner of the Arabian Peninsula. To the north and east the
country borders Saudi Arabia, to the south the People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen, and on the west the Red Sea, where the country's ports are located
(Map IBRD 12564R).
2.02      Agriculture is the major economic activity in YAR, accounting for
about half of the Gross Domestic Product during the seventies, and providing
employment for about 73% of the labor force in 1975. The main crops are
cereals, fruits and vegetables, coffee, qat and a limited amount of cotton.
Coffee and cotton are exported. YAR is not self-sufficient in cereal pro-
duction, and partly depends on imported grains, mainly wheat. Major proj-
ects have recently been initiated by the Government, with foreign assistance,
to improve agricultural productivity in the country.
2.03      YAR's known non-agricultural resources are limited.  Except for
rock salt and limestone deposits, no minerals are now being exploited.
Forestry and fishing may have some potential for future development but are
now of little economic importance. Local handicrafts are still the main
form of industry with weaving, tanning, dyeing and food processing pursued
in the old, traditional ways, with little use of mechanical power and only
a few small factories. The situation is, however, changing slowly with
the projected expansion of cement manufacturing capacity for which a small
factory exists at present, and with some new factories for manufacturing
consumer goods like soap, hydrogenated oils, biscuits, etc. under construc-
tion at present.
2.04      YAR is one of the poorest countries of the world, with a very low
per capita income and consumption. An optimistic development about YAR's
economy at present is the sharp increase in remittances made by Yemeni
workers employed in the oil-rich neighboring countries. About one-fifth
of the 6.5 million population (end 1975) of YAR work abroad and their remit-
tances reached a high YRls 2.4 billion in 1975/76, which was more than the
total import bill of the country (YRls 1.7 billion). Apart from creating
a boom in housing construction, these repatriated earnings have helped to



raise consumption standards, mainly through an increase in imports, which
is to be expected given the country's limited manufacturing capacity and
its liberal import policy. One consequence of this process has been an
increasing pressure on the country's limited transport system, particularly
its ports.
B. The Transport System
2.05      Until the late 1950's, modern transport infrastructure was almosc
completely lacking in YAR. Primitive tracks, suitable only for four-wheel
drive vehicles and animal transport, connected major towns and were the only
means of land transportation. Port facilities were limited to the ancient
port of Mocha, suitable only for very small ships and lighterage, and there
was no air service within the country. Towards the end of the decade bi-
lateral assistance, on a project by project basis, began to build up a modern
transport system. A new port at Hodeidah, financed by the USSR was completed
in 1960; an international airport was built in Sana'a with the aid of the
Federal Republic of Germany; and the main roads linking Sana'a, Hodeidah,
Taiz and Saadah were constructed, with financial assistance from the Peoples
Republic of China, the USSR, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), and more recently, IDA,
Bank Group's involvement in this sector dates from 1970, when YAR became a
member.
(a) Highways
2.06      There are about 1,140 km of main roads and about 2,950 km of
secondary and feeder roads in YAR. About 930 km of roads are paved, and a
further 60 km are under construction to paved standards; the remainder con-
sists mostly of tracks.
2.07      The movement of traffic between YAR ports and their hinterland
depends entirely on road Lransport.  The Port of Hodeidah is linked to the
main consumption centers in YAR by paved roads. The road connecting the
Port of Mocha to Taiz (Mocha's main service area) has been recently re-
built and surfaced for the first 64 km from Taiz, and the remaining stretch
of 42 km is an all-weather gravel road in reasonably good condition. The
Salif Port is connected only by earth tracks; work in improving the track
linking Salif to Hodeidah was started in 1976.
(b) Ports
2.08      The ports sector is discussed in Chapter III.



-4-
(c) Civil Aviation
2.09      Two airports, at Sana'a and Taiz, service domestic and international
air travel; the airport at Hodeidah services domestic travel, and the small
airfields at Saadah and Berat provides domestic service in the north. Sana'a
has a new and adequate terminal, but is not equipped for night landings, nor
are the other airports. Yemen Airways, the national carrier owned by the
Government, has a small fleet of DC-3s and DC-6Bs, and a Boeing 707 on
charter.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.10      The Central Planning Organization (CPO) is responsible for formu-
lating and coordinating public investments in the transport sector, while the
Ministry of Public Works is responsible for project implementation, adminis-
tration and policy. The Highway Authority is the executing agency for road
projects, and executes projects either independently or with the help of
contractors. PMAC is responsible for port management and execution of port
projects, the latter being generally done with the help of consultants and
contractors.
2.11      No overall transport planning exists at present either in the
Central Planning Organization which is responsible for national economic
planning, or in the ministries concerned. Transport investments have been
made on an ad hoc project basis with the determining factor being the avail-
ability of foreign aid. However, from 1971, a team of experts financed by
the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, and more recently a UNDP team have been attached
to the CPO to help with overall economic planning, identification and prepara-
tion of investment projects and coordination of external assistance, and have
been instrumental in identifying a number of development projects. In addi-
tion, the feasibility studies in the highway sector financed by UNDP and
later by the Association (as part of its two highway projects), as also the
port development study financed by UNDP and Kuwait Fund, have been of partic-
ular assistance in project preparation in these sectors.
2.12      The transport sector has received due recognition and high priority
in both the Three Year Development Program (1973/74 to 1975/76), and the
current Five Year Development Program (1976/77 to 1980/81) of YAR; under the
latter, the transport and communication sector is provisionally allocated
about US$460 million, which is about 30% of the Program's proposed total
public investments, and is the largest provision for any single sector.



D. Previous Projects in the Transport Sector
2.13      The Bank Group has had two projects in the trarspoor: sector, both
of them IDA credits for highway development. The first project (urder Credit
315-YAR, 1973) consisted of construction and supervision of the Taiz-Turba
road, technical assistance to the Highway Authority and some other elements;
the project cost was US$8.6 million, of which the ID- credit was US$7.7 mil-
lion, and the balance was a loan from the Kuwait Fund, A second project
(under Credit 558-YAR, 1975) was for construction of the important Taiz-Km 64
road forming part of the Taiz-Mocha/Hodeidah roads, and for continuation of
technical assistance to the Highway Authority. The estimated cost of this
project is US$15.7 million, of which IDA credit was US$9.0 million, Kuwait
Fund loan US$5.0 million and YAR Government contribution US$1.7 million. Both
these projects are making satisfactory progress. In addition., the Bank has
been the executing agency for two transport sector plarnirg s-udies in YAR -
the first for a feasibility study for road investments conducted in 1971, fi-
nanced by the UNDP; the second was the port development study during 1975-76,
financed by UNDP and Kuwait Fund, on which the present project is partly based.
III. PORT FACILITIES, ORGANIZATION ALND OPERATIONS
A.  Present Port Facilities in YAR
3.01      YAR has three sea-ports:  (i)  L-he centrally located Hodeidah which
handles over 90% of the country's gen_ere.1 cargo traffic and all its oil im-
ports, (ii)  the small lighterage port viccha, which is well-located to serve
the prosperous Taiz district and handles about 8-10% of the total general
cargo, and (iii) Salif which is a deep-water natural harbor with a modern,
mechanized, salt-loading pier but has no general cargo facilities and is
farther away from major consumption centers thani the other two. The total
traffic handled through YAR ports exceeded I millica tons in 1976, mostly
imports, including 250,000 tons of bulk petroleuam prod-c.s- tetails of YAR's
port traffic in recent years are presented in Table 1D  The facilities avail-
able in YAR ports are presently grossly inadequate to cope with the recent
growth in traffic, with the result that the averacge Twaiting period of ships
exceeded three months at the end of 1976, and congestion surcharges impcsed
by liner shipping companies reached 100% of the freight rates. YAR's loss
due to excessive ship-waiting time is estimated to have exceeded US$25 million
in 1976.
3.02      The modern port of Hodeidah, built between 1958 and 1961 under finan-
cial and technical assistance from the USSR, is located in sheltered waters at
the southern end of Khor-Khatib Bay (See Map No. IBRD 12565-R). Though YAR's
lain port, the facilities available in Hodeidah are very lirnited.  It has a



- 6 -
410 m long quay, of which 110 m has a designed draft of only 3,0 m to 6.0 m,
and the rest 9.5 m. The present dredged depth is 8.0 m below Mean Low Water
Spring Tide (MLWST) 1/ which permits use of the port by fully loaded vessels
of about 8,000 dwt and up to 10,000 dwt partially loaded. The back-up areas
of the wharf, used for storage of cargo, are not paved, and there is shortage
of cargo-handling and navigation equipment and of repair facilities. However,
the port is centrally located, and its layout offers scope for further devel-
opment of berth and other facilities; such development would also yield sig-
nificant economies of scale in port operations. A well-developed town, which
has a population of about 80,000, is located about 2 km from the port. The
port is connected by paved roads to all the main towns in YAR. Further details
regarding the present facilities at Hodeidah are given in Annex 1.
3.03      The Port of Mocha is located about 180 km to the south of Hodeidah,
on a length of open, shallow coastline suitable for the beaching of dhows,
and historically came into being as the port serving Taiz (See Map No. IBRD
12566-R). Further details of existing conditions are given in Annex 1.
Lighterage facilities including a 200 m long pier structure was built in Mocha
in the 1950's for transshipping cargo from ships anchored off the coast. Owing
to the silting up of its basin and approaches, this pier became virtually non-
operative for regular barge use in the 1970's. Using PMAC's newly bought
dredger, dredging alongside the pier to a depth of 4.0 m was carried out in
1976; further, as suggested by the Consultants (Louis Berger International
Inc. and Kampsax), dredging of a sandtrap will be undertaken in 1977 with a
view of rephasing maintenance dredging from an annual basis to once every four
years. The physical development of Mocha beyond the level of a lighterage
port will be highly expensive in terms of dredging and breakwater requirements,
compared to the further development of Hodeidah.
3.04      Salif is about 75 km to the north of Hodeidah.  The depth of water
available at Salif is in excess of 15 m close inshore. The salt loading
facility, completed in 1976 with financial aid from the Kuwait fund, consists
of a pier capable of accommodating 50,000 dwt vessels for loading salt, con-
nected by conveyor belts to the local salt mines close to the port. Salt
traffic through this facility has not yet commenced, but export negotiations
are under way. Salif is connected by a 75 km sand track to Hodeidah, which
is also its main link to other towns. Though Salif lacks proper facilities
to handle general cargo, some ships are presently diverted to Salif on account
of the long ship-waiting time in Hodeidah. In spite of Salif's deep-water
access, which is ideal for traffic carried in large bulk carriers, Salif is
not a suitable location for the next phase of general cargo facilities needed
in YAR, on account of its longer distance from main consumption centers and
the resulting higher internal transport costs compared to Hodeidah, the lack
1/   All references to water-depths in this report refer to Mean Low Water
Spring Tide, unless otherwise stated.



of a supporting township and the non-availability of fresh water except through
desalination plants. It is envisaged that Salif will concentrate on salt
traffic; for general cargo, it will operate as a standby port with marginal
facilities which are worth using when ship-waiting in Hodeidah exceeds about a
week or so.
B. Organization and Management
3.05      Until early 1976, the Port of Mocha was administered directly by
the Ministry of Public Works through a port manager, and Hodeidah was admin-
istered through a Port Authority; the controlling board for the Port Authority
was headed by the Minister of Public Works, and consisted of representatives
from other Ministries, as well as the Port General Manager and two of his
assistant managers, with the General Manager functioning as the chief execu-
tive. This set-up was changed by Decree Law No. 47 of 1976 (in force from
April 1976) which established the autonomous Ports and Marine Affairs Corpo-
ration (PMAC), having full administrative and financial powers to operate the
ports in YAR, under the general control of the Ministry of Public Works. PMAC
consists of a Board of Directors of seven members including a Chairman and
Director-General. Under the Law, the Chairman and the Director-General are
appointed by the President and the Prime Minister respectively, on the rec-
ommendations of the Minister of Public Works, and the other members are
appointed by the Minister of Public Works. PMAC has its headquarters in
Hodeidah Port, and at present operates Hodeidah and Mocha Ports, the salt
pier in Salif being owned and managed by the Yemen Salt Mining Corporation.
Any general cargo facilities developed in Salif will be the responsibility
of PMAC.
3.06      Of the present Board members, five are full-time members, all with
experience in port management or shipping, while two are part-time members -
one a legal adviser to Government and the other a businessman. The present
Chairman and Director-General were the General Manager and Assistant General
Manager, respectively, in the erstwhile Port Authority, and share overall
responsibility for port operations; of the remaining three full-time members,
two are in charge of operational departments - viz. Cargo Handling and Marine
Affairs. The Government's intention is to avoid duplication of functions at
the corporate and port levels, which is justified in view of the relatively
small size of the ports and the shortage of experienced and qualified per-
sonnel in the country. The present composition of the Board does not give
any representation to main port users; however, during negotiations Government
and PMAC indicated that consultations have been initiated recently with Port
users for improving Port services and that this will be continued on a regular
basis.
3.07      PMAC has a total staff of about 400.  PMAC retains the services
of about ten technical personnel from the USSR who assist the ports in
various operational functions like pilotage, workshop operations and train-
ing, construction works, and power plant operations. Their contracts are
renewed on a yearly basis.



-8-
3.08      PMAC management is g-:-eéaily c   -=ent, but would need strengthen-
ing to execute the project and to ensure efficient operation of the expanded
facilities. Being new, PMAC is still evolving its management structure; the
existing tentative set-up is indicated in Chart 1. Responsibilities of the
different departments are not cle'rry defined at present, and there is no
proper delegation of authority. The Law creating PMAC requires that it should
set up a proper administrative structure with clearly defined responsibilties
for different departments, and establish rules and regulations governing its
various activities. PMAC is presently making efforts to fulfill these objec-
tives. The Project includes technical assistance of an expert in port admin-
istration and documentation who will assist in streamlining port procedures
and regulations, and will advise on a suitable management structure with a
clear definition of responsibilities and delegation of power.
3.09      A serious weakness of the present port management structure is that
it does not have a suitable technical department with qualified personnel to
deal with engineering problems, planning and project execution. During dis-
cussions with PMAC and Government, it has been agreed that suitably qualified
engineers will be recruited to man the Technical Services Department which
will be responsible for project implementation and will be a nucleus for a
full-fledged engineering department responsible for overall maintenance and
execution of works - civil, mechanical and electrical - in the future; in
particular, a chief engineer will be appointed as a matter of high priority.
This appointment will be a condition of credit effectiveness. There is also a
shortage of qualified people in some other areas - notably in cost and manage-
ment accounting and cargo-handling. The project proposes to remedy these
deficiencies through provision of technical experts (see para 4.04) and to
some extent, training (see para 3.10). PMAC has no statistical unit at
present, but has agreed to set up one in its Cargo Handling Department;
during negotiations, further assurances from PMAC have been obtained in
this regard.
Training
3.10      PMAC will increase the existing training facilities in workshops
for training maintenance technicians, and will engage a core of expatriate
technicians in different fields to operate the slipway, who will also give
on-the-job training to local counterparts. The cargo-handling expert pro-
vided under technical assistance will give on-the-job training to a set of
key cargo-handling supervisors. In addition, the project provides for three
persons from the PMAC management being sent abroad to attend relevant port
management courses and to study the operations of well-established foreign
ports. To strengthen middle management, the project also provides for the
training of about four qualified PMAC staff in selected port management
courses, mostly in the Arab Maritime Transport Academy, Alexandria. During
negotiations, PMAC's assurance was obtained regarding the selection of staff
for such training and their being given suitable responsibilities after
training.



-9-
Accounting and Audit
3.11      The Finance Division of PMIAC (under the General Management Depart-
ment, see Chart 1), consisting of about 17 men, prepares the annual budget
and compiles the accounts. The normal accounting procedures for recording
the revenues and expenses are generally satisfactory. The monthly and yearly
accounts are compiled on time, the yearly accounts showing a comparison of
the actuals with the budget estimates. Some deficiencies that exist such as
absence of stores accounting and depreciation adjustments are being remedied
from the current year's accounts.
3.12      The original investment in the Hodeida Port was financed partly by
Government contribution and partly by an interest-free loan of YRls 80 million
from the Soviet Union, which is to be repaid in 10 installments from 1978. The
annual financial statements do not reflect these transactions; nor do they
show the total value of the assets. As no proper record was available of the
capital investments, the Government appointed three committees to review the
assets and to assess their values. The Committees have completed their work,
but their valuation, totalling only YRls 24.8 million, is too low. A reason-
able estimate would be about YRls 100.2 million; this figure has been adopted
for the financial statements in this report. The Government has agreed to
review the work of the Committees and to adopt a more realistic valuation
based on the original acquisition cost of land and the present value of the
other assets. The accounts for 1976 will be revised on this basis; this was
confirmed during negotiations.
3.13      The accounts of PMAC are audited and certified by a firm of qual-
ified accountants - Abdul, Hassan El Eryani & Partners - appointed by the
Ministry of Economy. The firm is a member of the Arab Union of Accountants
and Auditors whose head office is in Cairo. Two staff members of the firm
are stationed in Hodeidah to do a continuous audit, the head of the firm
making periodical supervisory visits. The work done by the auditors appears
to be satisfactory. They have completed their audit of the accounts for 1976
compiled on the basis of the valuations given by the three Government comit-
tees referred to in para 3.12. They will, however, have to review the
accounts after Government has decided on the revised valuations.
3.14      Besides the audit conducted by the firm appointed by the Ministry
of Economy, two other organizations also scrutinize PMAC's accounts. One is
attached to the Prime Minister's Secretariat, and the other is the Central
Organization for Control and Auditing - a special unit under the High Council
(with a total staff of about 82, 30 of them with university degrees in eco-
nomics, accounting and management), responsible for reviewing the activities
of all Government departments.
3.15      The Finance Division has been functioning satisfactorily so far;
but with the implementation of the project and the anticipated growth in
traffic, its responsibilities would increase substantially. Further, spe-
cial arrangements will have to be made to record project expenditures. To
ensure that these responsibilities are tackled efficiently some additional



- 10 -
staff qualified in accountancy will have to be recruited. Also, in view of
the importance of finance and accounting, the status of the division will hav7e
to be raised to that of a department, on par with PMAC's other departments.
These were discussed and agreed to during negotiations.
3.16      PMAC is not required to pay income taxes or other corporate taxes to
the Government. However, in lieu of such payments the erstwhile Hodeidah Port
Authority used to make an annual fixed contribution of YRls 750,000 to the Gov-
ernment, which will be continued by the PMAC.
Insurance
3.17      Government does not presently insure its property with any agency,
but assumes responsibility for all risks. A Government Insurance Company has
been started recently and the Ministry of Public Works has agreed to consider,
in consultation with the other Ministries, the advisability of insuring PMAC
assets with this Company. It was agreed during negotiations that suitable
provision would be made for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate port management practices.
C. Port Operations and Productivity
3.18      Port operations at Hodeida achieved high output rates during 1976.
The equivalent of 2-1/2 berths handled a total general cargo of 660,000 tons
during the year, in spite of several operational difficulties. This was
achieved by the hard work put in by the port's dock workers under harsh
weather conditions, and by working the port every available hour; however,
the consequent 100% berth occupancy resulted in long ship-queues and heavy
waiting costs, reflecting saturation of the existing limited port capacity.
3.19      PMAC provides compulsory pilotage services, arranges berthing, sup-
plies shore cranes and other equipment, provides for storage, mainly in its
unpaved open storage areas, and presently in a limited way supervises shore
handling operations. The dockworkers are supplied through a pool organized by
the Labor Office created by the Hodeidah Governorate. Further information on
present port operations in Hodeidah and Mocha, as well as expected changes in
the future operations after project implementation, is presented in Annex 2.
There are several limitations in the present system of operations, arising
from (a) lack of sheds and paved storage areas, (b) shortage of handling
equipment like forklift trucks, (c) overall congestion in the wharf due to
high density of traffic, and (d) inadequacy of control by PMAC principally
because of shortage of trained personnel to maintain a round-the-clock pres-
ence. The consequent rough handling and chaotic storage and shifting of con-
signments results in considerable damage to the cargo. The following will
remedy these deficiencies and further improve cargo-handling output at the
port: (a) the sheds under construction at present, (b) the paving of storage
areas and new equipment under the proposed project, (c) the proposed expansion
of activities by the newly established, Cargo Handling Department within PMAC,
with initial support from the technical assistance under the project, and the



- 11 -
expected introduction of palletization of cargo. The Statistical Unit to be
establish di (sec para. 3.09) will be required to develop suitable performance
indicators to monitor the improvement in port operations.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. The Investment Program
4001      Prior to 1976, when the results of the master plan study were made
known, develcpment of the ports in YAR did not follow any long-term plan.
Plans for tke zonstruction in Hodeidah of berth No. 4 with Russian assistance,
together- with a new 5-ton crane, were agreed in 1974 and this work, undertaken
through a local contractor, should be completed by the end of 1977.  PMAC has
recently decided to build berth No. 5, also with Russian assistance and prob-
ably under an extension of the contract for berth No. 4, and it is anticipated
that this should be operational in late 1978. In addition, four warehouses,
three transit sheds and one weighbridge are now under construction, financed
by PHAC's own resources, and these will be completed in 1977; some cargo-
handling and floating equipment are also being acquired. The total cost of
these ongoing works and including berth No. 5, will be about YRls 50 million.
As a short-term emergency measure, PMAC is also planning to construct a
temporary floating jetty at Ras Kathib at the northern end of the Khor Kathib
Bay (see map. no. IBRD 12565-R). In addition to these items, PMAC's invest-
ment plan covering the next five years consists of the project outlined in
this report, and conforms to the program included in the country's draft Five-
Year Development Program (1976/77 to 1980/81).
4.02      Berth No. 5 has not been included in the Project because Government
have already iritiated negotiations with the USSR for its construction as a
continuation of the ongoing work for constructing berth No. 4.  Timely comple-
cion of berth No. 5, is however essential for completing work on berth No. 6
included in the project, because of the physical configuration of the two
berths,  The project also includes some back-up facilities for berth No. 5.
In v ew of this interdependence, Government's assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the construction of berth No. 5 will be completed by June 30,
1979. Completion of arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the timely construc-
tion of berth No. 5 is a condition for making the credit effective.
4.03      The facilities presently under construction and proposed under the
project would be adequate to meet YAR's projected traffic requirements up to
about 1985. In view of the time-lags involved in adding new facilities, it
is necessary that PMAC should review during 1981/82 the port development re-
quirements beyond 1985; this was discussed and agreed to during negotiations.
The Government has also informally agreed to afford the Association a reason-
able opportunity to exchange views on any proposed investment in the Port
Sector estimated to cost US$300,000 or more in any one calendar year.



- 12 -
B.  Project GQiectives
4.04      The objective of the project is to expand port facilities in YAR
to serve the country's requiremen.s in th-e near future by developing the
Port of Hodeidah, and by rehabilitating the lighterage Port of Mocha to its
original capacity; the project also aims at strengthening the management
capability of PMAC through technical assistance and training. The facilities
included in the project, which will be substantially completed by the end of
1980, should be adequate to cover YAR's port requirements until about 1985.
C. Project Description
4.05      The program of works included in the project are:
(a)  Hodeidah
(i) Dredging. Dredging to deepen the approach channel and
port basin from about 8.0 to 9.0 m, and the enlargement
of the basin for berth Nos. 5 and 6, part of the dredged
material being used to reclaim the land for berth No. 6
and future berths; retention dikes will be constructed
for this reclamation. The work will involve dredging
of about 2.7 million m3 of material, and will be done
by PMAC's own dredger, under the technical supervision
of a dredging advisor, provided as technical assistance
in the project. The drafts on completion of the project
will allow handling of 13-14,000 dwt ships, in place of
the present limit of about 8,000 dwt. Dredging con-
tinued by PMAC after completion of the project will
allow entry of 15,000 dwt ships by 1982.
(ii) New Berth. The construction of berth No.6, 195 m long.
(iii) Slipway. The construction of a 500-ton slipway supplied
with a 20-ton mobile crane for repairs and servicing of
the PMAC's harbor craft including dredger, as well as
barges and other small vessels owned by other agencies
in YAR; this will be the first slipway in the country.
(iv)  Harbor Craft Jetties.  The provision of jetties, 140 m
total length, for mooring and servicing of the harbor
craft. These will also be used by the slipway.
(v) Paving of Storage Areas & Roads. The paving of existing
open storage areas behind berth Nos. 1 to 3 and of new
areas behind berths Nos. 4 to 6, together with necessary
resurfacing of roads for mechanical handling of cargoes.
Total area involved is 85,000 m2.



- 13 -
(vi) Buildings & Utility Services. The construction of new
service buildings comprising PMAC offices (600 m2),
customs office (300 m2), labor office (180 m2), welfare
facilities and toilets for dock labor, and conversion
of some existing buildings for immigration, health, and
customs activities associated with passenger traffic.
The existing water and electric distribution lines will
be extended and a salt water supply system installed
for firefighting and sanitation purposes.
(vii) Improvement to Oil Terminal. Rehabilitation of existing
terminal, and improvements to enable tankers up to 15,000
dwt to be accommodated.
(viii)  Rehabilitation of Existing Berths and Transit Shed.  The
reconstruction of the berth faces and refendering of
existing berth Nos. 1 to 3, and rehabilitation of the
existing transit shed.
(ix) Floating Craft. The procurement of one floating crane of
60 ton lifting capacity, one pilot boat and one self-
propelled service barge for buoy maintenance and bunkering
of ships.
(x) Cargo-handling Equipment. The procurement of four 12-ton
mobile cranes, 24 forklifts ranging from 2 to 5 ton capacity,
20 tractors, fifty 4-ton trailers, six mobile stacking con-
veyors, and three grain buckets.
(b) Mocha
(i) Civil Works. The rehabilitation of the pier face and its
refendering; paving of storage area (7,000 m2), and re-
surfacing of existing road and pier surfaces as is neces-
sary; the construction of a transit shed (500 m2), new
lighthouse structure, water supply, and toilets.
(ii) Navigation Aids and Cargo-handling Equipment and Other Items.
The provision of new navigation lights and a power generator
which will also supply power for navigational lights and for
lighting on the pier; and the procurement of cargo-handling
equipment consisting of one 12-ton mobile crane, three trac-
tors, ten 4-ton trailers, two 3-ton forklifts, and four mobile
stacking conveyors.
(c) Technical Assistance
(i) The provision of consultants to assist the PMAC in carrying
out tie engineering designs, procurement and supervision of
contracts to be undertaken in the project; engagement of



- 14 -
experts to advise on cost and management accounting, cargo-
handling, port administration, dredging, and organizing
of the new slipway, in total 108 man months; and training
courses for PMAC staff.
A detailed description of the project is given in Annex 3, and layouts of the
new facilities in Maps IBRD 12565R and IBRD 12566R.
D. Cost Estimates
4.06      The total project cost is estimated at US$27.9 million.  The foreign
exchange component is US$20.3 million (73%). Annex 4 shows details of the
cost estimate and a summary is given below:



--------YRls million ---------       -------------US$ million---------------
Foreign
Local     Foreign                    Local      Foreign               Exchange
Currency   Exchange      Total       Currency   Exchange    Total   Component
(a)  Hodeidah
1.  Civil Works                      16.3        36.8        53.1           3.6       8.2        11.8        69
2.  Equipment                         1.5        19.0        20.5           0.4       4.2         4.6        91
(b) Mocha
1.  Civil Works                       1.0         2.2         3.2           0.2       0.5         0.7        71
2.  Equipment                         0.1         1.3         1.4           0.0       0.3         0.3       100
(c) Contingencies
/1
1.  Physical                          1.8         4.9         6.7           0.4       1.1         1.5        73          1
2.  Price /2                         11.3        18.6        29.9           2.5       4.1         6.6        62          H
_  n
(d) Technical Services
1. Engineering Design &
Supervision                       1.8         4.9        6.7           0.4        1.1         1.5        73
2.  Technical Assistance              0.8         3.4         4.2           0.1       0.8         0.9        89
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        34.6        91.1       125.7           7.6       20.3        27.9       73
/1 Physical contingencies - 10% for civil works, 5% for equipment.
/2 For calculating price contingencies on local components an expected inflation rate of 20% per annum was used.
For imported equipment and civil works, the following inflation rates were used: Equipment 8% in 1977-79
and 7% in 1980-81; Civil Works 12% in 1977-79 and 10% in 1980-81.



- 16 -
4.07      The civil works cost estimates have been prepared from information
obtained from the feasibility study prepared by Louis Berger/Kampsax in 1976
and from prices given by local contractors working on current contracts in
Hodeidah Port. They reflect prices current during mid 1977. The civil works
costs also reflect the evidence obtained from borings that there is no rock
in the sea-bed to be dredged for the project, and that sub-soil conditions for
shore structures are suitable. Equipment costs are based on quotations from
foreign suppliers at the end of 1976, and adjusted to mid-1977.
4.08      The physical contingency applied is 10% on civil works and 5% on
equipment. These are considered adequate since there are no major uncertain-
ties regarding soil and other construction data. An average price contingency
of 34.9% of total project cost including physical contingencies, but excluding
technical services, has been allowed for expected inflation; this is based on
an annual inflation of 20% in YAR during the project period, (following recent
experience in the country), applicable to local components, and inflation
rates ranging from 8% to 12% for the project foreign components (see footnote
to the cost estimates under para 4.06 for details).
4.09      Since the YAR Government has indicated that they would exempt the
project's import components from import taxes, the cost estimates exclude
such taxes. Government's confirmation has been obtained in this regard.
4.10      The project contains an estimated 430 man-months of consultancy
services covering engineering design and supervision of the project, and
technical experts for strengthening the PMAC management. The estimated cost
of these services, including travel, office expenses and provision for in-
flation, is about US$2.2 million, equivalent to an average of about US$5,100
per man-month.
E. Financing Plan
4.11      Financing for the project is proposed to be by an IDA credit of US$6
million plus a parallel loan expected from other external source(s) of US$12
million together with a contribution of US$5 million from the YAR Government
and another sum of US$4.9 million from the cash resources of PMAC. Of these,
the credit, the external loan(s) and US$2.3 million of PMAC's contribution
will be in foreign exchange, and the balance will be in local currency.
4.12      The credit will be to the Government on standard IDA terms, with
the proceeds to be passed on by Government to PMAC through a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, at 9% interest for a period of 20 years, including five years of
grace. The external loan(s) is expected to be on terms similar to that of
the Association. The Government contribution will be in the nature of equity.
The signing of loan agreement(s) between the Government and the co-financier(s)
is a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.13      The IDA credit will finance the entire foreign exchange costs of
berth No. 6, oil terminal, harbor craft jetty and technical services (exclud-
ing the cost of the slipway project manager), while the external loan(s) is



- 17 -
expected to finance all the foreign exchange costs of the floating craft,
cargo-handling equipment, slipway and slipway equipment, and slipway project
manager under technical services, plus most of the foreign exchange cost of
rehabilitation of berths and transit sheds and paving. The detailed financing
plan, which is subject to final agreement between the Government and other
parties, is expected to be as follows:
Other     Govt.                    Other      Govt.
Asso-   External   and             Asso-   External   and
Project Element  ciation  Source(s)  PMAC  Total  ciation  Source(s)  PMAC  Total
----(YRls Million)----  ----------(US$ Million)--------
1. Civil Works
Dredging and
Retention
Dykes           -         -        8.0    8.0        -         -       1.7    1.7
Berth No. 6    10.5         -        4.9   15.4       2.3         -      1.1    3.4
Slipway           -        2.6        1.2    3.8       -        0.6      0.3    0.9
Harbor Craft
Jetty          1.6       -         0.8    2.4      0.4         -       0.2    0.6
Oil Terminal    1.5         -        0.7    2.2       0.3         -      0.2    0.5
Rehabilita-
tion of
Berths/
Transit
Sheds and
Paving          -      12.6        7.2   19.8        -        2.8      1.6    4.4
Buildings and
Utility
Services        -         -        4.7    4.7       -          -       1.0    1.0
2. Equipment         -       20.3        1.6   21.9       -         4.5     0.4    4.9
3. Contingencies   5.9       17.6       13.1   36.6    1.3          3.9     2.9    8.1
4. Technical
Services       7.5      0.9        2.5   10.9    1.7          0.2      0.5    2.4
Total           27.0     54.0       44.7  125.7    6.0          12.0     9.9   27.9
% of Total
Cost          21.5%    43.0%      35.5% 100%    21.5%        43.0%   35.5% 100%
F. Implementation
Responsibility
4.14      PMAC will be responsible for implementing the project; it is essen-
tial they appoint a chief engineer and other supporting staff to assist i n



- 18 -
this work (see para. 3.09). During negotiations PMAC has agreed to appoint
the required technical staff as a matter of priority. PMAC will be assisted
by engineering consultants for the detailed design and preparation of bid
documents for the civil works and equipment, and for management and supervi-
sion of contracts placed, on terms and conditions acceptable to the financing
agencies responsible for the funding of their respective sections of the
project. The consultants' services will be financed by the Association.
Appointment of the consultants is a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.15      PMAC will be responsible for the selection and appointment of the
technical experts, and for the selection of their personnel and the training
courses they are to be sent to, subject to the approval of the Association.
PMAC will also be responsible for dredging, but will be assisted in this task
by the dredging advisor appointed under the Project's technical assistance
component financed by the Association. A project manager for the slipway,
included under the proposed technical assistance, will assist in coordinating
the slipway project work, particularly in organizing its staffing (for which
early planning is required) and its operations.
Procurement
4.16      Procurement under the credit would be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines, except that contracts for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less in each case,
subject to an aggregate of US$100,000, may be awarded following domestic
advertising in accordance with Government's bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to the Association. For items financed by other agencies, their
respective procurement procedures will be followed. Bidding documents for
civil works will permit bidding either for the entire work or for separate
groups of items such as harbor works, buildings, paving, utilities etc., so
that both international and domestic contractors can participate in the
tenders. A 7-1/2 percent margin of preference will be given for domestic
contracts.
Construction Schedule
4.17      The appointment of consultants is expected to allow the commence-
ment of their duties by September 1977 as shown in the Work Program and
Critical Path (see Chart 2), so that the location development plans for the
ports of Hodeidah and Mocha can be agreed with PMAC by the end of 1977. The
design of specific elements should commence before this date and it is ex-
pected that all major civil engineering works shall be ready for bidding by
March 1978 and for the subsequent awards of contracts in September 1978.
Construction of all civil engineering works is scheduled to be completed by
December 1979 at Mocha and October 1980 at Hodeidah. The procurement of
equipment is scheduled on a similar basis with awards of contracts being
placed not later than October 1978 and for delivery to commence by October
1979 and to be completely delivered and installed by January 1980 in Mocha
and January 1981 in Hodeidah. PMAC will submit to the Association quarterly



- 19 -
progress reports covering project execution and port operations. The Project
Execution Schedule and the format of the Progress Reports were discussed and
agreed to during negotiations.
G. Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
4.18      Disbursements for the items under the proposed credit would cover
70% of expenditures for civil works (representing 100% of foreign exchange
components) and 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance. Dis-
bursements made after March 31, 1977 for Technical Assistance, amounting to
not more than US$50,000, would be payable retroactively. The Association at
its discretion will cancel any funds remaining in the credit account after the
proposed Project is complete. The disbursement schedule for the proposed
credit is presented in Annex 7.
H. Impact on Employment
4.19      Though the project would introduce some degree of mechanization
in cargo-handling operations, mainly through simple equipment like forklift
trucks, no adverse impact on employment is likely, due to the expected growth
in traffic. It is estimated that dock labor employment in Hodeidah will in-
crease from about 1,100 in 1976 to over 1,200 in 1981 and 1,550 by 1985. In
addition, the number of equipment operators and maintenance technicians and
office staff will also increase.
I. Environment
4.20      Development of the Ports of Hodeidah and Mocha does not impinge on
any known plans for their respective areas and there will be no additional
element which might be detrimental to the existing environment. As a protec-
tive measure, floating boom equipment will be provided for the containment of
any oil spillage that may occur at the oil terminal. By providing welfare and
sanitary facilities for port workers, the project will improve the environment
in the port area.



- 20 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic Growth
5.01      Most of YAR's foreign trade passes through its ports--primarily
through Hodeidah and partly through Mocha. Available data regarding the
growth of traffic through these ports is presented in Table 1; these figures
indicate the relative low base of YAR's port traffic, the insignificance of
its exports, and the sharp increase in imports during 1976. YAR's total port
traffic in 1976 consisted of 0.8 million tons in dry cargo and 0.25 million
tons in liquid petroleum products; export was only about 26,000 tons. The
traffic tonnage would be more if one includes about 250,000 tons of imports
waiting in ships at Hodeidah which could not be discharged in spite of many
weeks' waiting, due to inadequate port facilities.
5.02      The import traffic which was growing by an annual 8% up to 1975 in-
creased by about 37% in 1976, making an average annual growth rate of about
18% during 1973-76. The main items in which traffic increased in 1976 were
a variety of consumer goods including foodstuffs, and construction materials
like cement, timber, iron and steel goods, etc. Growth in such imports high-
lights the erstwhile low per capita availability of modern consumer goods and
intermediate goods in YAR, as well as the growing domestic purchasing power
due to increase in remittances by Yemeni workers employed in the oil-rich
neighboring countries. Such remittances have more than doubled in the last
three years, and during 1975-76 (July-June), exceeded the country's total
import bill of YRls 1.7 billion on both private and public accounts. Foreign
aid from neighboring Arab countries has also helped to increase imports. It
is reasonable to expect that the volume of workers' remittances and of foreign
aid to YAR will continue for some years. Since YAR may not have in the near
future the manufacturing capacity to meet the rising demand for consumer and
intermediate goods backed by this growing purchasing power and the rising
tempo of developmental activity, the trend of increasing imports is likely
to continue in the near future.
5.03      Traffic projections for YAR ports have been prepared for 1977-85,
broadly on the basis of the foreign trade growth indicators prepared by the
Central Planning Organization (CPO) for drafting the Five-Year Plan (1976/77
to 1980/81); these aggregate projections were broken into commodity-wise
figures using individual commodity projections for important items, and
distributed between Hodeidah, Miocha and Salif on the basis of the relative
economic costs of handling and transporting cargo through these ports.
Further details of this exercise are discussed in Annex 5, and the resulting
projections are presented in Tables 2 and 3. Briefly, the estimates indicate
an increase in dry cargo traffic to 1.3 million tons in 1981 and 1.75 million
tons in 1985, and an increase in liquid cargo imports (petroleum products) to
0.5 million tons and 0.7 million tons over the same period. Since most of
the project facilities would reach full optimal utilization by 1985, traffic
projections for the period beyond 1985 have not been attempted; traffic should
continue to grow during this period, though the rate of growth may slow down.



- 21 -
B. Project Benefits
5.04      The economic benefits produced by the project have been computed
from a comparison of the shipping and handling costs with and without the
project. In view of the work in progress outside the project, the "without
project" situation is defined as having the following facilities: the
existing facilities, with the addition of some new sheds and two berths
(making an equivalent of 4-1/2 berths in all) by early 1979, and a grain
silo with mechanized grain discharge facilities from end 1979. The main
benefits from the project would be: (i) savings due to reduction in ship-
waiting time and ship-service time, produced by increased port capacity and
higher output rate; (ii) economies of scale in using bigger ships for bulk
grain and petroleum products due to the deeper drafts provided by the project;
(iii) savings from reduced cargo damage, brought about by paved storage areas,
the use of handling equipment and supervision by trained personnel; and (iv)
savings in internal transport cost in using Mocha for serving the Taiz area,
made possible by the additional capacity created at Mocha. There are also
additional benefits due to the slipway and some other facilities, but these
have not been quantified. Of the quantified benefits, only the share con-
sidered likely to accrue to YAR has been taken for estimating the economic
return from the project. The assumptions used for quantifying the project
savings, and the basis for estimating YAR's share in these benefits, are
discussed in detail in Annex 5. The estimated benefits are presented through
Tables 4 and 5.
5.05      For purposes of this analysis, the traffic level through YAR ports
is notionally frozen at the expected 1985 'Level, since most of the project
facilities would reach full optimal utilization by this year; therefore, the
level of project benefits for future years is continued at the 1985 level.
In fact, this results in some underestimation of benefits, particularly
from the oil terminal and harbor-deepening investments. Project benefits
are computed up to year 2000 when a notional salvage value for the civil
facilities is added to the benefits stream.
C. Economic Costs of the Project
5.06      Project investment costs already exclude customs duties on import
components; the economic costs used in estimating the economic return (see
Table 6) further exclude local taxes and price contingencies. Since the
estimate of benefits from Mocha includes part of the benefits from dredging
undertaken outside the project during 1976/77, the cost of this dredging (YRls
1.2 million) has been added to the initial economic costs. Operation costs
are taken from financial projections, but they reflect only incremental costs
due to the project and exclude inflation factors. A replacement investment of
US$1.5 million for some of the cargo-handling equipment is added in 1990.



- 22 -
D. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.07      The total project yields an economic return of over 41%, and a
first year return of 18%. These results highlight the strong economic jus-
tification and urgency of the project investments. No separate analysis
of economic return has been made for the various components of the project,
since, with the exception of Mocha investments, the other investments are
closely interrelated and it is difficult to separate their individual impact;
their usefulness has therefore got to be judged in their totality. A separate
analysis made for Mocha and Hodeidah investments indicates a return of about
40% for Hodeidah, and still higher yield for Mocha.
5.08      Sensitivity analysis for the whole project shows the following
economic return rates; with a 25% increase in costs: 36%; with 25% decrease
in benefits: 34%; with both these conditions occurring together: 29%.
5.09      The advisability of providing for yet another berth in the project
was also examined from the cost-benefit data. The analysis shows the optimal
time for commissioning another berth to be 1985 (see para 4.03).
5.10      The high rate of economic return from the project, compared to its
rather normal first year return, is a reflection of the large benefits from
avoiding the heavy port congestion costs that would have occurred in later
years in the absence of the project (see Table 4). YAR is presently suffering
heavy losses due to congestion (see para 3.01); these will be partly relieved
for some time by the new facilities now under construction outside the project,
but will recur again by about 1985 if the project is not undertaken.
E. Project Risks
5.11      There are no major risks associated with the project.  The principal
risk would be a lower than expected traffic growth rate, but the sensitivity
analysis shows that the project is justified even if a large reduction in traf-
fic and hence in project benefits occurs. The project will yield an acceptable
economic return of 12%, even if only 55% of the projected traffic is actually
realized.
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
6.01      The financial position of PMAC is generally satisfactory.  So far,
the annual operating surplus of Mocha was transferred to Government while that
of Hodeidah was retained by the Hodeidah Port Authority in its bank account.
The Hodeidah Port was not required to make any payments to Government from its
surplus other than an annual contribution of YRls 750,000. At the beginning
of the current financial year, it had a cash surplus of YRls 22.1 million
covering both foreign and local currency. With the establishment of PMAC in
1976, the account of Mocha is being merged with that of Hodeidah and from the
current fiscal year the financial statements will reflect the transactions of
both ports. Until now, adequate maintenance and depreciation charges have not



- 23 -
been reflected in the accounts; however, even after providing for these
charges, the PMAC is expected, without changes in the existing tariff (revised
upwards from July 1975), to generate sufficient surplus each year and to have
by 1985 a cash balance of YRls 38.5 million after meeting (a) debt charges,
(b) capital expenditure of YRls 69.4 million (for berth Nos. 4 and 5 and equip-
ment, transit sheds, and the present project, and (c) the annual contribution
of YRls 750,000 to the Ministry of Finance. Detailed financial statements for
the years 1976-1985 are given in Tables 7 to 9 and the basis and assumptions
on which these statements are made are given in Annex 6. The following table
summarizes the Revenues and Expenses, the Cash Surplus and the Return on Net
Fixed Assets for the years 1976, 1979, 1982 and 1985.
(YRls Million)
1976      1979      1982       1985
(actual)
Revenue                                        20.6       29.3     38.8       54.5
Expenditure (including depreciation)            7.5       11.0     19.0       28.7
Net Operating Revenue                          13.1       18.3     19.8       25.8
Cash Surplus                                   22.1        8.8     13.1       38.5
Net Fixed Assets                               98.3      140.2    250.5      231.9
Return on Net Fixed Assets                     13.3%      13.0%     7.9%      11.1%
6.02      The above figures show that the financial position of PMAC is satis-
factory.  The cumulative amount invested in Gross Fixed Assts increases from
YRls 100.2 million in 1976 to YRls 275.7 million in 1985, the contribution by
PMAC increasing from YRls 2.6 million in 1976 to YRls 155 million in 1985
(see Table 9).
6.03      The return on net fixed assets decreases from 15% in 1980 to 6.7% in
1981 and 7.9% in 1982 (because of the increase in the value of assets conse-
quent on the completion of the project), but increases from 1983 reaching 11.1%
in 1985. To ensure that a reasonable share of the benefits from the project
accrues to the country, PMAC should be required to earn an adequate rate of
return on the investments; a rate of 9% would achieve this purpose and is in
line with the cost of capital to PMAC and normal commercial lending rates. At
current levels of tariff such a rate of return is expected to be achieved
except for three years (1981-83) after completing the Project (see Table 7).
It was discussed and confirmed during negotiations that PMAC will take steps
to ensure that the annual net revenues are sufficient to provide a return on
net fixed assets of not less than 9 percent, except during 1981 to 1983 when
it should be not less than 6% per annum.
Tariffs
6.04      The existing accounting system is orientated to Budget Control
but is not suitable for sound cost accounting. The charges for the services
rendered by the ports are not based on costs and, though the actual financial
transactions of the ports show an overall surplus, it is likely that a de-
tailed costing analysis would reveal that certain services are not profitable.



- 24 -
Also it will be necessary to consider a revision of the tariff to provide for
an adequate return on net fixed assets after Government decision regarding
the valuation of the assets (paras 3.12 and 6.03). Further, because of in-
flation, a periodic revaluation of the fixed assts on the basis of replacement
costs will be necessary. Technical assistance has been included in the proj-
ect for the services of a cost and management accountant to assist PMAC in
introducing suitable Costing and Management procedures so that there can
be (1) a more effective management control of financial affairs and (2) a
periodical adjustment of charges on the basis of costs, taking into account
the additional depreciation that will have to be provided consequent on the
revaluation of the assets. It was discussed and agreed during negotiations
that the fixed assets will be periodically revalued in accordance with appro-
priate methods of valuation acceptable to the Association.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement has been reached on the main issues referred to in the
preceding chapters, and more particularly on-the appointment of a chief
engineer and the establishment of an Engineering Department (para. 3.09), the
timely construction of Berth No. 5 (para. 4.02) and the revaluation of assets
(para. 3.12). Subject to the conditions of effectiveness referred to in paras.
3.09, 4.02, 4.12 and 4.14, the project is suitable for an association credit
of US$6 million to the Government of YAR on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Existing Port Facilities: Additional Details
(For Project Ports)
I. GENERAL
1.        The Port of Hodeidah, built in 1961, lies at the southern end of
a well-sheltered but shallow bay known as the Khor Kathib which is some 14
km long. The bottom of the bay consists of sand and silt with some clay.
Borings conducted in the project area have not found any evidence of rock.
The tidal range is 2.0 m and the port is approached by a 9 km dredged channel.
Wave action in the port is not significant.
2.        The port of Mocha is built in shallow open coastal waters and can
only be approached by vessels of less than 3.0 m draft. Vessels calling at
the port lie off-shore 2 to 3 km in open sea. Whilst the area is not subject
to frequent storms, the northwestern and southeastern prevailing winds in the
lower Red Sea are nearly always present. The sea conditions prevailing in
the area produce a littoral drift predominantly travelling in the northern
direction. The recent silting up of the pier and harbor beach with sand is
due to this drift but the depth of water available at any one time has been
dependent upon the seasonal northwest winds creating a counter southerly
littoral drift and the action of storm waves from the same direction tem-
porarily removing part of the accretion. Dredging of the pier alongside the
berthing face to depths ranging from 4.0 m to 2.5 m was started in late 1976
to return the pier to its original condition. By excavating a 4.0 m deep sand
trap on the exposed south side in 1977, as recommended in a study carried out
by the Danish Hydraulics Institute, it is hoped that more stable conditions
can be established, resulting in maintenance dredging being restricted to
once every 4 years. Operation of lighters is possible except under storm
conditions. Tidal range is 1.20 m.
3.        Very little rainfall occurs at both ports and the coastal belt or
strip is arid. Water resources are limited. Earthquakes have been reported
and port structures should be designed for them, otherwise site conditions
including subsoil do not present any abnormal problems of construction.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
II. EXISTING FACILITIES AND NEW FACILITIES UNDER CONSTRUCTION
A.   Hodeidah
4.        The principal existing facilities at Hodeidah (see Map IBRD 12565R)
are:
(i) The port is entered by a 9 km dredged channel, 80 m wide and
approximately 8.0 m deep. It is marked by lighted buoys, al-
though these and the shore beacons need improvement for full
night navigation. This channel and the port basin require
annual maintenance dredging of approximately 70,000 m3; this
will take only about one month of the,dredger owned by PMAC.
Pilotage is compulsory, and is provided by PMAC.
(ii) A sheet-piled wharf consisting of 320 m length dredged to
8.5 m and a 90 m stretch dredged to its designed depth of
6.0 m running up to 1.0 m at the end. Effectively there are
two berths (Nos. 2 and 3) for ships up to 8,000 dwt and a berth
(No. 1) for smaller cargo vessels. The snallow end is also
used for ships carrying passengers and by the YAR Navy. There
is a 40 m wide paved apron with three 5-ton level luffing rail
cranes. To the rear of the apron there are unpaved areas of
about 50,000 m2 and one transit shed of 5,400 m2. This shed
is shared with the YAR Navy. A weighbridge is under construc-
tion. The design of berth Nos. 2 and 3 will allow for dredging
to 10.0 m. The YAR Navy is planning to move to a new loca-
tion, when the facilities used by them would be released
for general use.
(iii)  A newly-built cold store of 600 ton capacity is located
to the rear of berth 4, which is under construction.
(iv)  PMAC offices of 1,300 m2 shared equally with the YAR Navy.
There are no canteens, toilets or bathrooms for the dock-
workers.
(v) Water supply from a nearby treatment plant is available.
This plant has plenty of spare capacity for port devel-
opment. It is being handed over by PMAC to a newly estab-
lished Water Authority serving the Hodeidah city.
(vi)  PMAC owns and operates a power station with an installed
capacity of 3,600 KWA and supplies electricity to parts
of the town.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(vii) Mechanical and carpenter shops. These are well equipped
although some of the equipment requires replacing imme-
diately and all is likely to be obsolete by 1985-90.
(viii) An oil terminal situated on the sea-side of the dredged
port basin, capable of handling up to 5,000 dwt tankers.
The terminal has an unloading platform 27 m x 7.5 m and
one mooring dolphin, both in a dilapidated condition.
(ix) Cargo-handling equipment: In addition to three 5-ton
quay cranes, equipment consisting of one 36-ton tower
crane and 8 forklifts ranging from 2 to 5 ton capacity.
Four mobile cranes owned by agents are also in use in
the port area.
(x) Floating craft: In addition to an old pilot boat, there
are five tugs: one 1,200 HP new tug, two 720 HP tugs (new),
one 150 HP tug and one 100 HP old tug which requires re-
placement. There is also a new water barge of 150 tons
capacity.
(xi) Dredger: A new 24" diameter cutter suction dredger with
an output of 200-400 m3/hour depending on the consistency
of the sand, and having an annual capacity, based on 12
hours of operation per day of about 800,000 m3. This
dredger was supplied by Iraqi Government in 1976, after
being used by an Iraqi dredging team during 1974-76 to
dredge the channel and basin at Hodeidah to the present
depth; the Iraqi team also trained local staff for
running the dredger.  The dredger was used for main-
tenance dredging in Mocha in 1976.
(xii)  PMAC owns an area of land to the rear of the existing
port boundary.  A portion of this is leased to the
Yemen Oil Corporation for use as a tank farm and road
tanker loading facility.  Other areas are used as un-
paved storage areas for non-perishable heavy cargoes
such as steel reinforcement and timber. A new grain
silo is being built to the rear of berth No. 5 (see
para. 5 below) on land leased from PMAC and there is
the possibility of a future need to provide fishing
port facilities within the port area. Even though
an ongoing UNDP/FAO Study on fishery development has
not indicated any firm location for the fishing port,
this should be allowed for in any future plan for the
development of the port. The present overall planning
of the port is unsatisfactory and will have to be firmly
established during the project period, together with
the designation of any areas outside the PMAC's owner-
ship required by the port for possible future operations



ANNEX 1
Page 4
5.        In addition to the existing facilities listed above, some additional
facilities are now under construction in Hodeidah, which are mentioned below:
(i) Construction by PMAC (through local contractors), under
an agreement with the USSR, of berth No. 4, 166 m long
with a 40 m wide apron, which was started in late 1976,
as an extension to the present wharf line; the berth
follows the same design as berths Nos. 2 and 3, built
with the help of Russian experts. The estimated date
for completion is early 1978. To meet the present port
congestion, the YAR Government have decided to add one
more berth (No. 5) as continuation of berth No. 4, by
extending the present aid agreement with the USSR. This
berth, following the same design as the earlier ones,
will be about 195 m long, and is expected to be ready in
early 1979. Under the same agreement, one 5-ton dock-
side crane has been purchased (yet to be installed), and
between 4 and 6 additional cranes of the same capacity
are expected to be acquired. -
(ii) PMAC has embarked on the construction of 4 warehouses
outside the port boundary totalling 10,200 m2 and 3
transit sheds totalling 8,400 m2 which will be completed
in 1977.
(iii) A 20,000-ton silo for imported grain is under detailed
design for construction at the back of the proposed
berth No. 5; this will be connected by conveyor belts
to No. 4, where bulk grain ships will be handled with
the help of shore cranes to be provided by the port.
The silo and conveyor system, with an average handling
capacity of 200 tons per hour, are being built by the
Yemen General Grain Corporation, under finances pro-
vided by IDA Credit No. YAR-636, and by Arab Fund.
The silo facilities are expected to be ready by the
end of 1979.
(iv) To relieve the present congestion, a temporary floating
pontoon facility approximately 183 m long and 27.5 m wide
will be installed by the end of 1977 at Ras Kathib, on
the northern end of Khor Kathib Bay. It will be located
in water depths suitable for handling 6 m draft vessels.
It will be used for small vessels and barges.
(v) One 720 HP tug and about eight navigation buoys are on
order.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
B.   Mocha
6.        The Port of Mocha consists of the following facilities (see Map
IBRD 12566R):
(i) A 200 m long pier built in 1955, rock armored on the
seaward side and providing berthing facilities on the
other for barges and small craft. The berth area
adjacent to the pier was completely silted up by
1975, but maintenance dredging was started in late
1976, with PMAC's own dredger brought from Hodeidah, to
restore alongside drafts to the original 2.5 m to 4.5 m
below MLW. The pier is of concrete construction and is
approached by a road up a narrow sand spit which is used
as an unpaved storage area. No fenders and bollards are
left and the reinforced concrete capping wall is badly
deteriorated after more than 20 years without maintenance.
The port's only cargo-handling equipment is a dilapidated
mobile crane. The only covered storage available is a
small old shed owned by the Customs.
(ii) The Yemen Oil Corporation used to unload petroleum products
into shore tanks, but this has been discontinued from 1975.
(iii) Buildings used by customs and port administration are in
poor condition and lack any utility services. There is
also a 60-year-old lighthouse which is in a dangerous
structural condition and has not functioned for many years.
There is no piped water or electricity supply in the town
of Mocha. Any water supply for the port will have to be
transported from the town.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Present and Future Port Operations and Capacity
A. Hodeidah
Present Situation
1.        During 1976, general cargo amounting to 660,000 tons was handled
over an equivalent of 2-1/2 berths of about 150 m length each(see para. 4,
Annex 1). This is equivalent to a throughput of 264,000 tons per berth and
about 1,833 tons per meter of useable wharf (approximately 360 m long). This
was achieved by almost round-the-clock work with 100% berth utilization,
resulting in long ship queues amounting to about 9,000 ship-days of pre-
berthing waiting.
2.        The operations at the port of Hodeidah are managed by a staff
of about 400 working in different sections. The port provides compulsory
pilotage services, arranges berthing, supplies shore cranes and other equip-
ment, provides for storage, mainly in the open, and presently in a limited
way supervises shore-handling operations. The dock workers are supplied
from a pool organized by the Hodeidah provincial Government's Labour Office;
this pool has a strength of about 1,020, and in addition about 50-100 casual
workers are regularly employed. The workers are booked and employed directly
by the shipping agents, both for stevedoring and shore-handling operations.
Owing to the lack of sheds and the congestion of cargo in port area, the
agents individually employ labourers to locate, shift and watch over their
consignments, which results in a chaotic situation at present. Storage in
the unpaved areas, shortage of mechanical aids like forklift trucks, and of
trained personnel in the port to exercise effective supervision further re-
sults in considerable damage to cargo. With the availability of new storage
areas and equipment, and better management control expected from the newly
established Cargo-handling Department, and with the initial support from a
cargo-handling expert proposed to be provided under the project, this problem
is expected to be remedied.
3.        The dock workers in Hodeidah are very hard-working and produced,
inspite of the many operational difficulties and the harsh weather condi-
tions, an output of about 10 tons per gang-hour for general cargo during
1976. The output per ship-day for general cargo was slightly above 800
tons.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Future Situation
4.        The situation in 1978/79 will be considerably helped by bringing
into service new sheds and berth Nos. 4 and 5, and in 1980 by the commission-
ing of the bulk grain-handling facilities, all these facilities falling out-
side the proposed project. (In the immediate future, the temporary floating
jetty under construction will also be of some help). These facilities, how-
ever, will not be sufficient to handle the anticipated general cargo traffic
of the early 80's; berth No. 6, scheduled to be completed by 1980, will be
required for traffic at this time. Without the project facilities, berth
utilization will be about 82% in 1981 and 98% by 1984, resulting in long
ship-queues as presently experienced (see Table 4). These estimates allow for
the bulk handling of grain at a rate of about 200 tons/hour, after the comple-
tion of the silo project in 1979.
5.        The project facilities will increase the number of berths to six,
equivalent to about 5-1/2 berths of 160 m each for handling the expected
traffic in general cargo, foodgrain and passengers. Total useable wharfage
will be 885 m, which excludes 30 m for inter-ship clearance at the corner
between berth Nos. 5 and 6. Of the above, the shallow end of berth No. 1
will continue to have less than 6 m draft for 60 m, while the other berths
will have drafts to accommodate vessels up to about 15,000 dwt.
6.        The introduction of mechanical handling under the project will
assist in achieving higher throughputs; for the efficient operation of this
equipment, the operating areas will be completely paved including 57,000 m2
allocated for open storage. In addition, it is expected that pre-palletiza-
tion of cargoes will grow and palletization of other cargoes will be provided
for. By 1982, it is expected that approximately 40% of the general cargo will
be handled on pallets. The project provides for such unitization. The corner
between berth Nos. 5 and 6 can be used for roll-on/roll-off vessels; the port
will be able to handle roll-on/roll-off traffic, as well as occasional con-
tainer ships. But the main type of traffic is expected to be conventional
general cargo, palletized to an increasing extent, the only exceptions being
bulk grain and bulk oil products. The proposed technical assistance in
cargo-handling and training and the resulting better cargo-management con-
trol will also help in achieving better output.
7.        It is expected that after the project facilities are commissioned,
cargo-handling output will increase by about 12% over the present level,
reaching about 900 tons per ship-day from 1981. The annual output per
standard berth would be about 180,000 tons for general cargo, for a norm
of 60% berth-occupancy.
8.        With the project facilities, berth utilization will be 60% in 1981,
rising to 77% by 1985 (see Table No. 4). Ship-waiting costs from such exces-
sive use of berths (about US$1.2 million in 1985) suggest that the berthing
facilities under the project would reach saturation by 1985, justifying
additional facilities for the subsequent period.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        The projected increase of imports of oil products from 250,000 tons
in 1976 to 720,000 tons in 1985, can be handled over the existing terminal,
with its proposed improvements capable of handling tankers up to 15,000 dwt.
10.       The project provides for increasing channel depth to 9.0 m, which
will enable, by 1980, entry of oil tankers and bulk grain vessels of about
13,000-14,000 dwt size. The PMAC is expected to continue capital dredging
(with their own dredger) after the project, to increase the depths to 9.5 m,
enabling, by 1982, entry of 15,000 dwt vessels. The oil terminal and shore
berths are designed to handle such ships.
B. Mocha
Present Situation
11.       In 1975 the volume of cargo throughput was approximately 50,000
tons and this was handled under difficult conditions presented by the silting
up of the port. With the dredging of the port completed, the throughput in
1977 should be much greater. The method of operation of the port is similar
to that at Hodeidah except that the shipping agents own and operate the tugs
as well as barges and use the tugs for transporting pilots. There are about
300 part-time dock workers, who are not organized and are hired as required
by the shipping agents.
12.       The majority of cargoes is directly loaded on lorries to be stored
in local shipping agents' warehouses. The existing stacking areas are unpaved
and there is only one small storage shed used for housing valuable cargoes
prior to customs clearance.
Future Situation
13.       In order to handle the anticipated increased traffic flows of 180,000
tons per annum, it is proposed that the port area should be properly paved for
mechanical handling equipment with an open storage area of 7,000 m2, and a
transit shed of 500 m2. The main equipment required is to provide mobile
conveyors for unloading the barges, and tractors and trailers to transport
cargoes to the storage areas. These requirements are covered under the
project.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Detailed Description of Project Components
1.        The project, consisting of the development of Hodeidah and Mocha
Ports, includes at Hodeidah:
(a) Dredging. This includes (i) the deepening of the approach
channel to 9.0 m below MLWST together with the provision
of a passing bay and the enlarging and deepening of the
port basin to 9.0 m; (ii) dredging to a depth of 9.5 m
alongside the berth Nos. 2 to 6; (iii) dredging an area
to the west of berth No. 1 to a depth of 4.0 m for the
harbor craft jetties and slipway; and (iv) the land
reclamation for berth No. 6 from the enlarging of the
basin (for which retention dikes will be constructed).
PMAC's dredger will be used, the dredger having an
output of approximately 800,000 m3 per year. The esti-
mated operational cost only of the dredger including
spares, at this production rate, is YRls 2 per m3.
the estimated volume of dredging to achieve 9.0 m depth
is 2,700,000 m3, and together with maintenance dredging
at Hodeidah and Mocha should be completed by March 1981.
Borings previously taken indicate that the material in
the seabed should be easily dredgeable with the port
authority's existing dredger. The excavation for the
widened channel will include the removal of a thin layer
of sandstone (not more than 100 m3) at the shoreline of
one of the islands through which the channel passes. This
should not present a problem, as it can be dealt with by
land excavation methods, although some blasting may be
required. The maximum depth possible, without dredging
the approaches to the present channels, appears to be
9.5 m, and it should be possible for PMAC to achieve
this by continuing the dredging until mid-1982.
(ii) Berth No. 6. The construction of a sheet piled bulkhead
195 m long for berth No. 6 and a 40 m wide apron. This
berth will physically be connected to berth No. 5 and
its length allows for the internal corner configuration;
the corner between berth Nos. 5 and 6 could be used to
handle RO/RO vessels.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(iii) Slipway. The provision of a 500 ton slipway adjacent to
the mechanical workshop. The slipway will be able to handle
vessels of the following maximum dimensions: length 32 m,
width 10 m, draft 3.2 m. In addition to PMAC's dredger
and other vessels, it will also be made available for ser-
vicing the private tugs and barges, and possibly in the
future, fishing vessels. By 1981 PMAC will have between 8
and 10 craft, and vessels from other sources could number
from 15 to 25, not including possible fishing boats; these
will ensure full employment for the slipway. YAR has no
other slipway at present; the port craft presently go
without regular maintenance and repairs, affecting the
efficiency of port operations and reducing the effective
life of the floating craft.           R
(iv) Harbor Craft Jetties. An area between the slipway and the
end of berth No. 1 will be developed for the mooring and
servicing of the Port Corporation harbor craft. This will
consist of a 90 m jetty for use in conjunction with the
siipway and another 50 m jetty. It will also enable the
return wall of berth No. 1 to be used by lighters for cargo
handling if this area is vacated by the YAR Navy.  There
will be room for two more 50 m jetties if required in the
future.
(v) Paved Storage Areas. The concrete paving of the presently
unpaved open storage areas behind the 40 m wide apron to
berth Nos. 1 to 6 inclusive, together with resurfacing of
existing roads within the security wall line, is essential
to provide for the operation of mechanical cargo-handling
equipment, and for reducing cargo-damage during storage.
The total area, including roads to be resurfaced, amounts
to 85,000 m2.
(vi) Buildings and Utility Services. New service buildings will
include PMAC office (600 m2), customs office (300 m2), labor
office (180 m2) and a number of labor and welfare facilities
such as first aid, toilets, washing and eating areas. In
addition, since there are no passenger facilities at present,
certain existing buildings will be converted for passenger
handling purposes to provide for health, immigration and
customs controls. The existing utility services, namely
water, power and lighting, need to be reorganized and
modernized as well as be extended to the new berths Nos. 4,
5 and 6 and the grain silos. In addition, the project will
provide a new salt water mains supply to all areas for fire-
fighting and sanitary purposes. Paved storage areas will
be designed to effect surface drainage for these areas.
Sanitary sewers will be provided as required.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(vii) Oil Terminal. The oil terminal, capable of taking tankers
up to about 5,000 dwt, will be rehabilitated with new fen-
dering; two new breasting dolphins and two mooring buoys
provided for handling larger tankers up to 15,000 dwt which
are likely to be introduced within the next 5 years together
with boom equipment to deal with oil spillage.
(viii)  Rehabilitation of Existing Berths and Transit Shed.  The
rehabilitation of the wharf capping beam and refendering to
berths Nos. 1 to 3 inclusive, and improvements to the existing
transit shed.
(ix) Floating Craft. A floating crane of 60 ton lifting capacity;
an additional pilot boat and a self propelled barge fitted
with shear legs suitable for maintaining navigation buoys
and to act as a bunkering vessel when necessary.
(x) Cargo Handling Equipment. The provision of the following
cargo handling equipment: four 12 ton mobile cranes; six
2 ton, fifteen 3 ton and three 5 ton forklifts; 20 tractors
and fifty 4 ton trailers; six mobile stacking conveyors;
10,000 pallets; and three grain buckets. The introduction
of pallets, forklift trucks and other equipment will be
used to help palletization of cargo, reduce cargo damage
and improve productivity.
(xi) Slipway Equipment. A 20 ton mobile crane together with
certain additional machine tools to supplement the capacity
of the workshops to deal with servicing of ships using the
slipway.
2.        At Mocha the project consists of:
(i) Civil Works. The rehabilitation and refendering along the
200 m berthing length of the pier, the paving of the 7,000
m2 open storage area; resurfacing (4,800 m2) of the roads
within the port area and of the pier itself; the construc-
tion of a transit shed (500 m2); new customs and adminis-
trative offices, generator house and modifications to
existing buildings to provide storage and workshop;
demolition of existing lighthouse and its replacement;
toilets and drainage.
(ii) Navigation and Utilities. Electrical generators will be
provided to power new navigation aids, lighting and the
running of mobile conveyors, together with water storage
and distribution.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(iii) Cargo-Handling Equipment. Cargo-handling equipment con-
sisting of four mobile conveyors for unloading barges and
stacking; three tractors and ten trailers; one 12 ton
mobile crane and two 3 ton forklifts.
3.        Technical assistance for:
(i) Foreign consultants for the detailed design, documentation
and supervision for the project;
(ii) Foreign technical experts to assist the PMAC management in:
(a) cost and management accounting;
(b) cargo handling;
(c) port administration and documentation;
(d) capital dredging; and
(e) slipway organization and operations.
Details of the experts to be provided are furnished below:
Total               Recommended
Man-months              Date of
Type                               Employed             Start of Work
1.  Dredging Advisor                        36                 Aug. 1977
2.  Cargo-handling Expert                   12                 Jan. 1980
3.  Cost and Management Accountant          12                 Jan. 1979
4.  Port Administration Advisor             18                 July 1978
5.  Slipway Project Manager                 30                 July 1979
Total                            108
(iii) Short training courses for PHfAC staff in various aspects
of port management (see para 3.10 in text).



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEKEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
-----YRls. million              -----US$ millionÖ-------          Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total         Exchange
A. Hodeida
1. Civil Works
Dreding                                    1.2       4.2       5.4           0.3       0.9       1.2           75
Retention dikes                            1.1       1.5       2.6           0.2       0.3       0.5           60
Berth No. 6                                4.9      10.5      15.4           1.0       2.4       3.4           71
Slipway (500 ton)                          1.2       2.6       3.8           0.3       0.6       0.9           67
Harbor craft jetty                         0.8       1.6       2.4           0.2       0.4       0.6           67
Paving of storage areas & roads            4.6      10.9      15.5           1.0       2.4       3.4           71
Buildings                                  0.6       1.2       1.8           0.1       0.3       0.4           75
Utility Services                           0.9       2.0       2.9           0.2       0.4       0.6           67
Improvements to oil terminal               0.7       1.5       2.2           0.2       0.3       0.5           60
Rehabilitation of existing berths &
transit shed                             0.3       0.8       1.1           0.1       0.2       0.3           67
Subtotal          16.3      36.8      53.1           3.6       8.2      11.8           69
2.  Equipment                                                        -
Floating Craft:
1 60T floating crane                       0.2       4.0       4.2           0.1       0.9       1.0           90
1 Pilot boat                               0.0       1.0       1.0            -        0.2       0.2          100
1 Service barge                            0.2       2.9       3.1            -        0.7       0.7          100
Cargo Handling:
4 Mobile cranes                            0.2       1.7       1.9            -        0.4       0.4          100
24 Forklifts, 20 tractors,
50 trailers, 6 mobile conveyors
& 3 grain buckets                        0.4       5.9       6.3           0.1       1.3       1.4           93
10,000 pallets                             0.1       0.9       1.0            -        0.2       0.2          100
Slipway & Workshop:
500 ton cradle, winch, mobile crane        0.4       2.6       3.0           0.2       0.5       0.7           71
Subtotal           1.5      19.0      20.5           0.4       4.2       4.6           91
B. Mocha
1. Civil Works
Rehabilitation of pier, paving of
storage area & roads, utilities,
transit shed, service buildings &
lighthouse                                 1.0       2.2       3.2           0.2       0.5       0.7           71
Subtotal           1.0       2.2       3.2           0.2       0.5       0.7           71
2. Equipment
Navigation aids & cargo
handling                                   0.1       1.3       1.4            -        0.3       0.3          100
Subtotal           0.1       1.3       1.4            -        0.3       0-.3         100
C.  Contingencies
1. Physical /1                                    1.8      4.9       6.7            0.4       1.1       1.5           73
2. Price /2                                      11.3     18.6      29.9            2.5       4.1       6.6           62
Subtotal          13.1      23.5      36.6           2.9       5.2       8.1           64
D. Technical Services
1.  Engineering Design & Supervision              1.8       4.9      6.7            0.4       1.1       1.5           73
2.  Technical Assistance                          0.8       3.4      4.2            0.1       0.8       0.9           89
Subtotal           2.6       8.3      10.9           0.5       1.9       2.4            79
Total Project Cost                                   34.6      91.V    125.7            7.6      20.3      27.9           73
means insignificant
/1  Physical contingencies - 10% for civil works, 5% for equipment.
/2  For calculating price contingencies on local components, an expected inflation rate of 20% per annum was used.
For imported equipment and civil works, the following inflation rates were used: Equipment 8% in 1977-79-
and 7% in 1980-81; civil works 12% in 1977-79 and 10% in 1980-81.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Economic Analysis of the Project
Details of Data, Assumptions and Methodology
A. Review of Recent Traffic Experience
1.        Most of YAR's foreign trade passes through its ports - primarily
through Hodeidah and partly through Mocha. Available data regarding the
growth of traffic through these ports are presented in Table 1.   The
traffic information recorded by the Port Authority consists mainly of
aggregate tonnages, with commodity details for only petroleum products
handled in bulk. However, some commodity data have been prepared on the
basis of information obtained from leading importers and from some Govern-
ment agencies; such estimates for 1976 are presented in Table 2.
2.        The figures in Table 1 indicate the relative low base of Yemen's
port traffic, the insignificance of its exports, and the sharp increase in
imports during 1976. The increase in imports in 1976 largely consisted of
consumer items of daily use and a variety of construction materials and
other intermediate goods, and is a reflection of: (a) the low per capita
availability of such goods in YAR at present, and (b) the sudden growth in
domestic purchasing power from expatriated earnings of Yemeni workers em-
ployed in the neighboring oil-rich countries. Official estimates show a
total remittance of YRls 2.4 billion during 1975-76 (July-June), as against
the total import bill of YRls 1.7 billion in the same year on both private
and public accounts. Unofficial estimates place the volume of remittances
much higher. It will be some years before YAR can build import-substitution
industries to reduce such imports. The operation of a free market system in
YAR both in imports and domestic trades has further facilitated the quick
translation of this growing purchasing power into larger imports. This
trend is likely to continue and gather momentum in the future.
3.        Two qualifications should be added to the traffic figures for 1976
presented in Table 1, while using these figures for projection. Firstly, they
include an estimated 80,000 tons of general cargo traffic imported through
YAR ports for re-export to Saudi Arabia by road; this has been prompted by
the 5 to 6 months' ship-waiting time experienced in Saudi Arabian ports and
will prove a temporary phenomenon; this quantity (a rough estimate developed
from field inquiries) has to be deducted to estimate the traffic meant for
use in YAR. Secondly, the dry cargo traffic figure of 785,000 tons excludes
about 250,000 tons of import cargo carried by the ships waiting to be berthed
at the end of 1976, which could not be discharged in spite of many weeks'



ANNEX 5
Page 2
waiting time due to lack of port facilities. Most of this waiting cargo
(most of it already paid for) would have been discharged if port capacity
was sufficient and therefore it should rightly form part of the national
effective demand for imports in 1976, for purposes of traffic demand projec-
tions. Ignoring this could lead to under estimation of future demand. The
traffic projections presented in the next section assumed that at least
150,000 tons of this waiting cargo should be added to YAR imports actually
handled in 1976, to arrive at a realistic base-year-demand.
4.        The export traffic mainly consists of raw cotton and coffee seeds,
and has remained low at about 25,000 tons. The passenger traffic consists
mainly of movement between YAR and Saudi Arabia of workers and pilgrims and
has steadily increased in the past few years.
5.        The port-wise distribution of traffic#given in Table 1 reflects
the relative importance of YAR ports in terms of their facilities and other
locational factors. Hodeidah is centrally located to serve the main economic
activity centers in YAR; Mocha is ideally located to serve the economically
active Taiz area, but it has almost completely silted up recently and its
shore facilities have become too old, seriously limiting its traffic capa-
city. Salif has a modern salt loading pier completed in 1976; but it has
limited general cargo facility, and its location about 65 km further away
from the main consumption centers compared with Hodeidah makes it relatively
uneconomical for general cargo; Salif was however pressed into service for
handling some general cargo during 1976, on account of the excessive ship-
waiting costs at Hodeidah.
6.        Some turn-around information relating to Hodeidah, compiled on a
sample basis, indicated an average output per ship-day of nearly 800 tons,
output in individual cases often exceeding 1,000 tons. Ship-waiting data
have been compiled only for the last two years.  Waiting time in Hodeidah
during 1975 was 785 ship-days, giving an average of about 2 days per ship;
berth occupancy was 85% in 1975, but 100% in the second half of 1976, leading
to long ship-queues in 1976.  Total ship-waiting time in Hodeidah during 1976
is estimated to be about 8,900 ship-days, most of this occurring during the
second half of 1976.
B. Traffic Projections
(i) General Strategy
7.        The traffic projections for individual YAR ports for the period
1977-85 have been prepared through the following steps:
(a) Develop aggregate tonnage projections for the country broadly
on the basis of the foreign trade growth indicators prepared
by the Central Planning Organization (CPO) for drafting the
Five-Year Plan 1976-77 to 1980-81;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(b) Break up the totals into commodities by using special com-
modity projections for main items and treating the rest as
other cargo;
(c) Add separate estimates for transit cargo; and
(d) Distribute the total traffic among different ports - Hodeidah,
Mocha and Salif on the basis of relative economic costs for
handling and transporting the cargo.
These steps are discussed in detail below. The results of this exercise are
presented in Table 3.
(ii) Estimate of Aggregate Traffic Growth
Imports
8.        Imports account for over 95% in YAR's total port traffic at present.
Aggregate import tonnage is assumed to grow during the period 1977-85 at an
annual average growth rate of 8% for dry cargo imports and 9% for all imports
including liquid petroleum products. This is a lower rate compared to the
recent traffic growth discussed in para 2 above, but follows broadly the annual
growth rate of 8.1% in import values (at constant prices) for the Five-Year
Plan period 1977-81, presented in the foreign trade projections prepared by the
Central Planning Organization. The CPO officials consider that these are only
indicative figures and that the actual growth could be higher.  Assuming no
significant change in the value (in constant prices) per ton of imports during
the period, the tonnage growth rates used in this study, though slightly higher,
broadly correspond to the range of growth in import values suggested by the
CPO. The resulting traffic projections presented in this study would form a
realistic basis for port planning, in view of the compelling factors behind
the growth in import demand discussed in para 2. There is also the additional
factor of increased public investments during the new Five Year Development
Program 1977-81, when annual investments in constant prices would be 2.3 times
the annual investment during the preceding Three-Year Program, much of which
would be more import-generating than import-substituting.
9.        The above growth rate is assumed to continue until 1985.  Growth
beyond this period may slow down because of the likely rise of new import
substitution industries in the country; however, no estimates are presented
for this period since the project facilities would reach full optimal utiliza-
tion by 1985 traffic levels.
10.       For purposes of projections, the figures of actual traffic handled
in 1976 have been corrected so as to make them reflect more truly YAR's
effective traffic demand for the year. This has been done by deducting the
estimated transit traffic for Saudi Arabia (80,000 tons) and by adding part



ANNEX 5
Page 4
of the traffic in waiting ships (150,000 tons) which could not be discharged
during the year due to inadequate port facilities. The rationale of these
adjustments is explained in para 3 above.
Exports
11.       The export traffic, presently a total of only 26,000 tons, largely
in raw cotton and coffee seeds, is expected to continue the slow growth
observed in the past. Two new items likely to be added are - marble tiles
produced from local deposits for which a project is under study, and cement
from the factory at Bajil. The annual cement production at this factory
is being expanded from 60,000 tons to 250,000 tons under an agreement with
the USSR; the agreement provides for purchase by the USSR of 50,000 tons of
the increased annual production. Export traffic in salt, as it develops, will
be handled by the salt loading pier in Salif operated independently by the
Yemen Salt Mining Corporation.
Other Traffic
12.       It is expected that passenger traffic would initially continue at
somewhat the present levels, and gradually decline after 1980, with the com-
pletion of new road connections between Saudi Arabia and YAR. As regards
transit traffic in general cargo meant to be re-exported to Saudi Arabia, it
is assumed that the present levels will continue up to about 1981 after which
it will cease due to the development of Saudi Arabian ports.
(iii) Commodity-Wise Projections
13.       The following summarizes the main assumptions regarding the commodity
projections presented in table 3.
(1) Foodgrains. Estimate of foodgrain imports, including flour
imports, follow projections presented in the Bank Appraisal
Report (No. 1057a-YAR, of May 1, 1976) on the Grain Storage
and Processing Project, which are considered valid. The
above project for which an IDA Credit was approved in June
1976, aims at improving the handling and storage facilities
for grain imports in YAR, its appraisal report presents
projections of growth in grain and flour imports, based on
expected trends in population growth, consumption patterns,
production growth, income growth and other factors. The
only change made in those figures is to treat a part -
about 10% - of the bulk grain as general cargo, handled
in bags, along with the flour imports, also handled in
bags. The remaining bulk grain is expected to be handled
through the silo and related mechanised handling facilities
on completion of these facilities at the end of 1979.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(2) Sugar. Imports are assumed to grow at about 4% per annum,
which, after allowing for a population growth of 2.0 to 2.5%,
allows for some marginal increase in per capita consumption.
(3) Cement. This is a major item in which substantial import
substitution is possible and is planned. The expected initial
fast growth in import demand on account of housing and con-
struction industry, is expected to be fully met by expanding
production at the existing factory at Bajil and by a new
factory in OMRAN for which feasibility studies have been
completed.
(4) Petroleum Products. Bulk imports estimated to grow at an
annual 15% during the first five years and at about 10% later.
This rate is conservative compared to the 20-25% growth rate
in the recent past; however, even a larger volume of traffic
can be handled at the proposed oil terminal. Import of
packed petroleum products (in drums) will sharply increase
in the next 3 to 4 years due the import of bitumen for major
road construction works, and due to general increase in the
use of lubricants and other products.
(5) Fertilizers. It is only since 1970 that chemical fertilizers
have been used in farming in YAR, on an experimental basis.
The import traffic reported for 1975 was impressive, at
34,000 tons. Large-scale use of fertilizer does not seem
possible in YAR on account of limited water supply and the
nature and layout of the terrace farms. The import of
fertilizers is therefore assumed to grow only at a slow
pace, under the impact of various agricultural development
schemes.
(iv) Port-wise Distribution of Traffic
14.       In estimating port-wise shares in future traffic (see Table 3) the
main criteria used have been the comparative costs of handling and transport.
On this basis, the share of Mocha is taken as most of the general cargo
traffic destined for the Taiz area, which is nearer Mocha, subject to the
capacity limitations at Mocha. A recent traffic survey by the consultants
wno prepared the master plan study for YAR ports indicated that in 1975,
about 17% of the total general cargo imports into YAR moved to the Taiz
area, much of it from Hodeidah.  The total cost of servicing Taiz through
Mocha would be about 31 Rials less than through Hodeidah, because of the
shorter distance which more than compensates the extra lighterage expenses
at Mocha port. It is therefore assumed that after Mocha's facilities are
improved, most of Taiz's general cargo traffic will move through Mocha,
until its full capacity of about 180,000 tons is reached. As for Salif,



ANNEX 5
Page 6
which has no proper general cargo facilities and has many limitations in-
cluding longer distance from main consumption centers, it is mainly conceived
of as a port of last resort for general cargo, which will be used when Hodeidah,
for any reason, becomes congested. A rough estimate shows that Salif would be
cheaper to use, up to a point, whenever ship-waiting in Hodeidah exceeds about
8 days. Salif's limited capacity could also be economically used for part of
the transit traffic meant for Saudi Arabia, as long as this traffic continues,
and for occasional discharge of project materials for construction projects
in its neighboring regions. On this basis, it is assumed, that while Salif
would handle general cargo traffic up to its full capacity (notwithstanding
its problems) initially when Hodeidah remains congested, its traffic in later
years is likely to be small.
C. Project Benefits
General Approach
15.       The economic benefits produced by the project have been computed from
a comparison of the shipping and handling costs with and without the project.
The results are presented in Tables 4 and 5. In view of the work in progress
outside the project, the "without project" situation is defined as having the
following facilities: the existing facilities, with the addition of some new
sheds and 2 berths (making an equivalent of 4-1/2 berths in all) by early
1979, and a grain silo with mechanized grain discharge facilities from end
1979. The main source of benefits and assumptions regarding their quantifica-
tion are described in para 16 below; the basis for estimating YAR's share in
the total project benefits is discussed in paras 17 and 18.
Assessment of Benefits
16.       The following project benefits have been quantified:
(i) The savings in ship-waiting time brought about by the
additional berth and increased productivity due to
better handling equipment and methods; all these fac-
tors increase port capacity and reduce queueing time.
The waiting time is estimated on the basis of queueing
tables applicable to similar port situations. Since
queueing time tends towards infinity as berth occupancy
nears and exceeds 100% which is not realistic, the present
estimate freezes the waiting time at about the level ac-
tually observed in 1976 (about 8,900 ship-days) whenever
berth occupancy exceeded 98% in the "without project"
situation.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(ii) Savings in ship service-time brought about by higher
productivity in general cargo handling. The productivity
is expected to increase from about 800 tons to about 900
tons per ship-day due to the project.
(iii) Savings from reduced cargo-losses and damage. At present,
due to congestion and shortage of handling equipment, of
sheds , and of paved open storage areas, general cargo
consignments are handled, stored and shifted around in a
highly unsatisfactory way, resulting in heavy damage and
loss of cargo, of as high as 5-6%. Insurance companies
therefore refuse to insure cargo against handling losses
in the YAR ports. The project facilities will improve this
situation. The resulting savings is conservatively estimated
as 0.5% of the value of import cargo (taken as US$450 per
ton), as applied to 70% of the general cargo traffic which
is considered prone to such damage. Since part of this
saving is due to the construction of storage sheds outside
the project, only half of the estimated savings is attri-
buted to the project.
(iv) Savings from deepening of the harbour and channel. The
main benefits from this would be in the petroleum products
and foodgrain imports, which could use bigger ships in the
range of 13,000-14,000 dwt, in place of the present range
of 5,000-8,000 dwt. Use of bigger ships would yield scale
economies which will be reflected in freight rate, partic-
ularly, because these commodities are moved in bulk on
charter terms. Freight savirngs for foodgrain traffic
was estimated on the basis of voyage estimates between
Hodeidah and Perth (Australia) for 7,500 dwt and 14,000
dwt ships; for petroleum products, voyage estimates for
Hodeidah-Aden were used to estimate such freight savings.
Partly, the savings for petroleum traffic also result
from the investment on the new oil terminal, since the
existing oil terminal cannot accommodate bigger ships.
(v) Savings from Mocha Development, These arise from reduced
damage and loss of cargo, and the net savings in trans-
port costs for traffic diverted from Hodeidah through
Mocha. The former applies to the total expected traffic
through Mocha, and the rate of savings would be the same
as in the case of Hodeidah. The second source of savings
applies to the traffic notionally diverted from Hodeidah;
the net savings in port handling and internal transport
costs for this traffic will be about 31 rials/ton.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Distribution of Project Benefits
17.       Out of the total project benefits, only the share accruing to YAR
has been taken into account for calculating the economic return from the
project. By and large, this part of the project benefits would first accrue
to the importers as reduced costs, and through them, under the competitive
market system in YAR, to the general consuming public reflected as reduced
prices.
18.       YAR's share in the total project benefits is estimated on the fol-
lowing assumptions:
(i) For savings in ship-waiting time, all benefits should
generilly accrue to YAR, either as reduced demurrage charges
in charter trade, or as avoided congestion surcharges in
liner trade. Congestion surcharges are imposed specifically
to cover extra ship-waiting costs in ports, and the reduc-
tion of waiting time should therefore result in an equivalent
reduction in shipping charges paid by the country, through
the removal of the surcharges. Credit for only 90% of these
savings is taken in this estimate. (Congestion surcharges on
Hodeidah Port had reached 100% of freight rates at the end of
1976.)
(ii) Savings in ship-service time: It is assumed that such
benefits accruing to liner traffic may not be easily passed
on to the country because of the nature of liner freight
mechanism, but full benefits for charter trade (about 30%
of the total traffic) will be realized by YAR, through
reduced freight or demurrage. However, credit for only
90% of this savings is taken in the estimates.
(iii) Freight savings due to deepening of the harbour, for food-
grain and petroleum traffic: Since this traffic is on
charter terms, where freight rates generally reflect actual
port conditions, the savings should mostly accrue to YAR.
Allowing for possible slippages and for profit incentives to
encourage the switch-over to bigger ships, YAR share is taken
as only 75J% of the total.
(:;V)  For savings in reduced cargo damage or internal transport
costs, the full benefits accrue to YAR.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Benefits Stream
19.       For purposes of this analysis, the traffic level through YAR ports
is notionally frozen at the expected 1985 level, since most of the project
facilities would reach full optimal utilization by this year; therefore, the
level of project benefits for future years is continued at the 1985 level.
In fact, this results in some under-estimate of benefits, particularly from
the oil terminal and harbour deepening investments. Project benefits are
continued upto year 2000 when a notional salvage value for the civil facili-'
ties is added to the benefits stream.
Note: For discussion of project costs, economic return and sensitivity
analysis see Chapter V in main report.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
1.         The value of the existing assets of the Corporation has been taken
as Rials 100.2 million on the basis of the estimated acquisition cost of land
in 1959/60, the original Russian assistance of Rials 80 million (which is to
be repaid in 10 annual installments from 1978) and the present condition of
the assets.
2.         In the balance sheet, the above, less the Russian loan of Pial-s 80
million, is treated as equity contribution by Government.
3.         Estimated Revenues and Expenses have been calculated as follows:
(i)  The revenues of the Port Corporation have been estimated on
the basis of the annual earnings for fiscal year 1975/76,
the traffic projections as given in Table 2, the existing
schedule of tariff and the additional storage space that
is being provided.
(ii)  Expenses of the Corporation have been estimated on the
basis of the yearly increase in activities, normal
addition to staff emoluments and 12 percent annual in-
crease because of inflation. In addition amounts have
been provided for (1) maintenance expenditure as a
percentage of the value of the fixed assets and (2)
special maintenance dredging of Rials 1.6 million
during 1980 and 1981 for Mocha.
(iii)  Depreciation charges have been calculated on the basis
of estimated lives of assets as given below:
(a) Land - nil depreciation.
(b)  Dredging - 50 years.
(c)  Buildings - 40 to 60 years.
(d) Water and electric supply equipment
and distribution system - 30 years.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(e) Workshop and cargo handling equipment - 10 to 25 years.
(f) Vehicles - 10 years.
4.        Debt Charges - The terms and conditions used for long-term debt are
as follows:
(a)  Original Russian loan of Rials 80 million to be repaid in
10 annual installments from 1978, without interest charges.
(b)  Second Russian loan of Rials 2.6 million for Berth No. 4
to be repaid in five years from 1978, with an interest rate
of 2-1/2 percent.
(c)  IDA Credit of Rials 27 million to be repaid in 20 years,
including grace period of five years, repayment to com-
mence in 1982, with an interest rate of 9 percent.
(d)  Other loan(s) of Rials 54 million on the same conditions as
IDA Credit.
5.        Cost of berth No. 5 amounting to Rials 23 million as well as contri-
bution of Rials 22.2 million for the project, treated as met from the cash
resources of the Port Corporation.
6.        Government contribution of Rials 22.5 million for the project is
treated as equity.
7.        No increase is considered to the present amount of Rials 750,000
that is paid annually by the port Corporation to the Ministry of Finance.
8.        Additional investment required during 1983-85 to increase capacity
to handle expected growth in traffic after 1985 (para 4.03) has not been
reflected in the financial statements.



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year & Quarter                                   at End of Quarter
US$ ('000)
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                              20
December 31, 1977                                              182
March 31, 1978                                                 351
June 30, 1978                                                  520
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                             709
December 31, 1978                                            1,366
March 31, 1979                                               2,144
June 30, 1979                                                2,922
1979/1980
September 30, 1979                                           3,701
December 31, 1979                                            4,675
March 31, 1980                                               5,150
June 30, 1980                                                5,625
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                           5,926
December 31, 1980                                            5,999
March 31, 1981                                               6,000
Source: Mission Estimates



APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Past Traffic Through YAR Ports: 1969-1976
(Traffic Tonnage in Thousand Tons)
Through Hodeidah Port                               Through Mocha Port          Thro Salif          Total YAR Ports
Port
Exports   --------- Imports -------------
Liquid Bulk                                                   Total                                                     No. of Ships          Passenger Traffic
General  (Petroleum        Total      Total       General   Liquid    (All            General    General   Liquid                   (Hodeidah;       (all at Hodeidah; in '000)
Year                   Cargo    Products)       Imports   Traffic        Cargo       Bulk      Imports)       Cargo       Cargo       Bulk    Total       arrivals)        Arrival          Departure
1969         -          212          63           275         275           -          -          -              0           -         -         -             -
1q70         -          232          64           296         296           -          -          -              0           -         -         -
1971         2          372          90           462         464           -          -           -             0           -         -         -            367              -                 -
1972         8          385         122           507         515           -          -          -              0           -         -         -            506              -                 -
1973        19          438          93            531        550         54          40         94              0         511        133       644           520             50                 -
1974        23          464         114            578        601          56         36         92              0          543       150       693           453             55                16
1975        24          479         154            633        657          58         38         96              a          561       192       753           559             74                45
1976        26          634         250            884        910          50         -          50             75          785       250      1035           640            104                60
'partly estimated)
Notes:  1.   -  means insignificant or not applicable.
2.  The Table excludes the salt export traffic through Salif before 1974 (5,000 to 10,000 tons per annum).
3.  The figures for 1976 include some traffic which is meant for re-exports by road to Saudi Arabia - estimated at about 80,000 tons in 1976.
4.  At least 150,000 tons of the traffic waiting in ships at the end of the 1976 would have been discharged in the YAR Ports during the year, if                                                                        a
port facilities were adequate; this notional additional traffic is, however, not included in the above figures.
Source:  YAR statistical yearbook, 1976; data from Yemen Oil Corporation and PMACG.
January 1977



AlPPRAISAL OF
A POST DSVELOPdRNT PROJECT
Y8tirD ARAB REPDBLIC
Pro-Jcted Traffic ITrough YAO Ports 1977-1985
(Cargo-Traffic in Thousand tons)
TOO Trf       s ourern                 Trannit T-afficL3    Total Traffic                                       Ditribution of Trsffic by Ma lor Co=adito Droops                                               Tffific by farco-Typri            Pausangor Traffic
Exports_i            Imports                                           Throogb                                                                                                                                                                             (in Thoossanda)
Liquid Bulk                                   YAR Ports         Food Grains                                                     Pa-ked P-iroln-                       Othbr        BSlk
(All GeneroI      Dry    (Petrolenm      Tonal   (All C-ncral                               in Bulk       F710r & G-rins        sugsr       Cannot             Prod-rns         F-trcli-rs  GC rl   Pt-roinca   llsnnr- l    Dry   Liquid
Tear        9y~j          Cargo)    Pargodon      Traffic        Cargo)      ( __________        )Through Ribo)   (in Boos)             (ic Saga)  (Rn_Sags)-i         (if  Drums)            Res         Cno        Prbd"rto      Conan     Outk    Bulk        Arrivals   Dorarnurra
1976T1        25            830         259       1,105            R0               1,185               0                 210              110         12D                45                 35            415         250          935         D      250           104          60
1977          25            870         290       1,185            80               1,265               0                 230              114         125                 50                 35           421         290          975         0      290           105          60
1978          26            974        330        1,330            80              1,410                0                 270              118         150                72                 40            430         330        1,D80         0      330           105         6h
1979          28          1,052        380        1,460            80               1,540              30                 275              122         160                78                  45           45D          380       1,130        30      380           105          6D
1980          78          1,120        440        1,638            80               1,718             210                 140              127         180                82                  50           489         440        1,068       210      440           105           60
1981          B0          1,180         300       1,760            50               1,810             240                 145              132         110                 82                 50           541          500       1,070       240       500           90           52
1982          82          1,290         550       1,922             0               1,922            268                  180              138          50                 85                 60           591          550       1,104       268      550            80           45
1983          85          1,400        600        2,085             0              2,085              305                 200              144          50                90                  70           626          600       1,180       305      600            80           45
1984          88          1,530         69        2,278             9               2,278             330                 235              150           50                90                 75           688          660       1,288        330      660            70          40
1985          90          1,660         720       2,470             0               2,470             380                 250              156           50                95                 80           739          720       1,370        380      720           70           40
LI  The figures foR 1976 indi-aer th. notional traffic ddatnd, i.e.  they ielude aboun 150,000 toss of general cargo in goiting  hbips  bhich could non bh  dinuh-rged during the yssr duo e Pshriage of po-s
faciliti-a, though thrae ships -ained for many weeks upto rho sod of the ye0r   flst of rtes-  imp-rts are already paid  for, and ahbuld fern part of the bass year fraffic d-siand for pr-jr-tieg future
dem.nd, Dart as sotual traffir handled arc gi-en is Table 1.
/2  Dnclodee 50,000 tons of -eeswt expor-t  fr-n 1980R  This is based an thes rr    aS  YAR-USSR aid agreement by uhih UOSR uill exp-nd produ-titn of the Bajil Conut rFactory end purchase 50,090 toes from  th.
additisnal canons peod-it-on
/3 Re-expor-ed by road to Sadi Arabia; rough setimats.
Rooms:  Appraisal Miatsi- Eatilmarr,
Jamnupy 1977



Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Expected Port-Wise Distribution of Future Traffic 1977-1985
(Cargo Traffic in '000 tons)
Thro Hodeidah Port                      Thro Mocha Port   Thro' Salif Port               Hodeidah -
Liquid Bulk                     (All                (All                Passenger Traffic
General      Dry Bulk    (Petroleum        Total          General            General                  in thousands)
Year          Cargo        (grains)      Products)       Cargo          Cargo)              Cargo)          Arrivals    Departures
1977           745            0             290         1,035              80                150                105         60
1978           850            0             330         1,180              80                150                105         60
1979           950           30             380         1,360              80                100                105         60
1980           918         210              440         1,568             100                 50                105         60
1981           900         240              500         1,640             150                 20                 90         52
1982           904         268              550         1,722             180                 20                 80         45
1983           980         305              600         1,885             180                 20                 80         45
1984         1,088         330              660         2,078             180                 20                 70         40
1985         1,170         380              720        2,270              180                 20                 70         40
Note: 1) Total YAR Port traffic projections are given in Table 2.
2) See Annex 5 for basis for port-wise distribution.
Source: Appraisal Mission Estimates
January 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEVELOPP1ENT PROJECT
]EMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Ettiosted Savings in Ship-Time at Rodeidah Porn due to the Project
-                 -----------------T-----SITATION I:  WITHOUT PRO.JECT------------------------------     -------------------------------SITUATION 71:  WNTTR PROJECT-------------------------   ---------SAVINGS T  YAR TROM TRE  MROJECT-----
Seruime -
H.ndling   Serei-e-ti-n Time for                                                                         Haudliug       se-icee Tiue Needed
Rate for   Needed fot   Grain           Tete           Total                                             Rate for                  FPr           Total
Goo-1    h.odliog          and          Service        irr-c                            E.iaieed         Sonora S.                   Girat       Beruo-         eruiee-                       .tittmed             LI       /2
Years      Grgen        General       feaeger   SvTime            Time      2/    Bereh             QuoetuR         Cargo         FPr          cud          Time          Tiner    3 -erth    WRaeim                 In  erie  aitinbg          Total       /VOue of
(To-u per  Carte          Trffic/l/  Needed           Available        Oceup-ncy        Tine  L2         (nons per    General    Paesenger  Needed             Available         Ocucpancy Time           Ti-e         Tine          Time         Time SNaed
(Ship-day)  (Thip-dayt)  (Ship-days) (Ship-RAys)  (Sbip-dayo)             S.    -       (Shoip-daysl  7 ,hp-dny)        Cargo       TrsgliR/1  (Ship-dayt)  (Ship-daps) %d                  (Ship-devs)  (Ship-day)(h-daa-sa) (Ship-daRys)  ip-dy  (Sh0) L4
(1)          (2)          (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)            (7)                 (8)             (9)         (55)          (11)         (12)           (13)             (14)       (15)          (16)          (17)           (18)          (19)
1979          800         1,188           88          1,276         1,530            83                 880             800         1,188           88         1,276          1,530             83         880             0              0             N              0
1980          800         1,147          135          1,280         1,530            84                 960             850         1,080          133         1,213          I,870             65         146            18           732            750          2,250
i981          800         1,125          129         1,254          1,530            82                 752             900         1,000          129         1,129          1,870             60          90            34           595            629          1,887
1982          800         1,130          129         1,259          1,530            82                 755             900         1,004          129         1,133          1,870             61         102            34           566            600          1,800
1983          800         1,225          139          1,364         1,530            89               1,773             900         1,088          139         1,227          1,870             66         160            37         1,451          1,488          4,464
1904          800         1,360          137          1,497         1,530            98               8,600             900         1,209          137         1,346          1,870            7J          269            41         7,498          7,539         22, 619
1985          800         1,462          149          1,611         1,530          above 100          8,850             900         1,300          149          1,449         1,870             77         405            43         7,573          7,616         22,849
1986
C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22,84f
2000
(t unea 1 )
NBtea (1)  Traffic teonngee eupected through hodeidah are given in Table  1.
(2)  See Anene  No. 5  for a detailed discuscioe of atssuptiens
1/  ThEn it  ceenbRo for both niroetion.: Fo- bhlk grati  through silo abhet 4,000 tone per ship-day, and fee passeeger traffin are ship-day fo- an average  hip lead oa  1.200 poree.
2/ See diaco-t-oN- in Annex No. 5 for explanation.
3/  A ne-  berth under the proje-t will be added by Janoncy 1980, making an eqoivalent of 5-1/2 ntandaed bertha (5-1/2 a 340 be-th daya)
4/  At the rate of US$ 3,000 fir ahip-day, for the average chip of about 6,500 due visiting the porr.
So yeR:  Apprai a  h 7 usulu  Etuimtees
January 1977



APPRAISAL of
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimate of overall Economic Savings to YAR, Prodared bh The Proposed Port Project
hODESII:  F-reight Sa-itgf  From One of Bigger Ships          EODEIDAH:  Savieg  from Red-ed Cargo Loaae.          RODEIDAH:  Vane of ship-  MOCA   S-avinge freo  Redated           Y :   Net S-viogs in Pert               Total Overall - Avings
after Dredging                                               and Ramge                                  tie Saved at              Cargo Los-es and                    R-ndling and Inland              to YAR from  the
Port                           DReos                          Tr-n-port Geats                        Prelent
From BRlk GSain Traffic        Nron BRlk Petroloe-             Savings      Traffic Receiving       Total          (Fig-res from                Traffio Receiving        Total       Savings   Trmffit    Total             (Cl. 3+5+8+9+11+14)
Traffic                   Per Ten         the b..efit         S-viogs          Teble 4)                       the R-nefit         S-vinga       Per Ton  Reneiviog  Savings
-----------------------    -----------------------                      (70% of Gee. CSrg)   (Doe to                                        (702 of Gen.  Crgo)                            the Benefit to YAR
Saviogs   YARs Shere iR    S-vings   YAR a Svitngs                                                 Project)
Per Toe  SRviogo from         per Ton   from Total
ToteS Traffio                 Trsffio
Year              (V8$)       (US$000)           (1$)        (US$ 000)            (US$)          ('000 taos)        (US$0000)          (UB'00)                      (R000 tens)       (US09000)       (US$)    ('000 tons)                   (USS0OOO)   (Y. Rial)
('RIB)
(1)                (2)           (3)              (4)          (5)                 (6)               (7)               (8)                (9)                           (10)             (11)         (12)          (13)       (14)                     (15)
1979                0             0       0        O            O                                    0                  0                  0                              p                            6.8           20         136             136           612
1980                0             0                0            0                   -                -                  -                2,250                             -              -            6 8           40         272           2,522        11,349
19SO             4.70           840            OBSO           299                 2.25              630                708               1,887                            105            236           6.8           90         612           4,582        20,619
1982             4.70           938           0B80            330                 2.25              633                712               1,800                            126            283           6.8          120         816           4,879        21,955
1933             4.70         1,067            0.80           359                 2.25              686                771              4,464                             126            283           6.8          120         816           7,760        34,920
1984             4.70         1,155            0.80           395                  2.25             761                856             22,619                             126            283           6.8          120         816          26,124       117.558
1985             4.70         1,330            0.80           430                 2.23              819                921             22,848                             126            283           6.8          120         816          26,628       119.4
1986
4.70         1,330           0S$0            430                 2.25              819                921             22,848                             126            283           6.8          in          816          26,628        119,824
(aenausi)
mote:  (1) Sne DOeseRio-s in Amnas No    5  far dertils of the eseomptia.s used Be them estimat.
(2) Saviagvslaes in 1977 prices.
So-co:  Appreissl Ei4iM  Eeti-t.ee
j. ...cry 1977



Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
A PORT IEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Rate of Return Calculations: Full Prolect
(Figures in Thousand YRIs)
Year       Capital Costs       Operating Expenses        Total Benefits        Net Benefits
1977            5,568                    0                        0               -5,568
1978            9,343                    0                        0               -9,343
1979          41,713                   400                      612              -41,501
1980          39,243                 2,500                   11,349              -30,394
1981              912                4,700                   20,619               15,007
1982                0                4,800                   21,955               17,155
1983                0                5,500                   34,920               29,420
1984                0                5,800                  117,558              111,758
1985                0                6,700                  119,826              113,126
1986                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1987                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1988                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1989                0                6,700                  119,826              113,126
1990           6,750                 6,100                  119,826              106,976
1991                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1992                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1993                0                6,700                  119,826              113,126
1994                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1995                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1996                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1997                0                6,700                  119,826              113,126
1998                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
1999                0                6,100                  119,826              113,726
2000                0                6,100                  121,401              115,301
Results:  Internal Rate of Return:  41.7%
First Year Return, using 12% interest rate: 18.4%
Notes:  (1)  The following adjustments have been made in the capital costs:
(a) deducted price contingency, (b) deducted local tax component,
(c) added YRls. 1.1 million in 1977 being dredging costs at Mocha,
outside project, (d) replacement investment of YRls. 6.75 million
added in 1980.
(2) Operating costs cover only incremental costs due to the project, and
are in constant prices; they include special maintenance dredging in
Mocha (YRls. 0.6 million) every four years from 1981.
(3) Benefits stream taken from Table 5; a notional salvage value added
in the last year. Costs and benefits expressed in 1977 prices.
(4)  See Annex 5 for further discussion of assumptions.
Source: Mission's calcula;ions
January 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A PORT DEViLOPNENT PROJECT                              TABLE 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Ports and Marine Affairs Corooration
Revenue Accounts
(Actual 1976 - Estimated 1977-85)
(YRIs. Millions)
1976      1977       1978       1979      1980        1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
&renue
Sbip Dues                5.9        6.4        7.7        8.4       9.7        9.9       10.8       11.8       13.0       14.2
Cargo Dues               11.4      12.4       14.8       16.2      18.5       12.6       21.9       24.9       28.4       32.4
Miscellaneous             3.3        3.6       4.4        4.7       5.3         5.6        6.1       6.7        7.3        7.9
Total                 20.6       22.4       26.9       29.3     33.5        35.1       38.B       43.4       48.7      54.5
Operating Exp.            5.6       6.0        7.1        8.0       9.8        11.6      12.8       16.2       19.1       22.5
Depreciation              1.9       1.9        3.0        3.0       3.0         6.2        6.2       6.2        6.2        6.2
Total                  7.5        7.9       10.1       11.0      12.8       17.8       19.0       22.4       25.3      28.7
Soplus                 13.1       14.5       16.8       18.3      20.7        17.3      19.8       21.0       23.4       25.8
Return on NFA           13.3Z      15.0%      11.7%      13.0%    15.1%         6.7%       7.9%      8.6%       9.8%      11.1%
Source:Mission Estimates
January 1977



APPRAISAL OF                                      TABLE 8
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
Estimated Cash Flow Data 1977 to 1985
(YRls. - in Millions)
Cash Required                            1977   1978       1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
A. Investment
Current Program                 24.2       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Berth No. 5                       7.7    15.3        -         -         -         -         -         -         -
IDA Project                        -      7.7      28.8      72.8      16.2       0.2        -         -         -
Subtotal                      31.9    23.0       28.8      72.8      16.2       0.2        -         -         -
B. Debt Service
Interest                          -       0.1       0.9       3.9       6.6       7.3       6.8       6.3       5.S
Repayment                          -      8.5       8.5       8.5       8.5      14.0      13.4      13.4      13.4
Subtotal                        -       8.6       9.4      12.4      15.1      21.3      20.2      19.7      19.2
C.  Payment to Government               0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8
D.  Changes in Working Capital    (-)3.5         1.0       0.6       0.6       0.7       0.8       0.5       0.6       0.8
(Other than Cash)
Total Cash Required             29.2    33.4       39.6      86.6      32.8      23.1      21.5      21.1      20.8
Cash Available
A.  Cash Beginning of Year             22.1    11.9        2.0       8.8       6.8      10.1      13.1      18.8      27.3
B.  Operating Surplus                  14.5    16.8       18.3      20.7      17.3      19.8      21.0      23.4      25.8
C.  Depreciation                        1.9      1.9       3.0       3.0       6.2       6.2       6.2       6.2       6.2
D.  Contribution from Government         -       2.5       9.3      10.7        -         -         -         -         -
E.  Long Term Loans                     2.6      2.3      15.8      50.2      12.6       0,1                            -
Total Cash Available            41.1    35.4       48.4      93.4      42.9      36.2      40.3      48.4      59.3
Cash at End of Year                     11.9      2.0       8.8       6.8      10.1      13.1      18.8      27.3      38.5
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1977



APPRAISAL OF                                    TABLE 9
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PFrts and Marine Affairs Corporation
Balance Sheet Data
(Actual 1976 - Estimated 1977 to 1985)
(YRls. - in Millions)
Assets                                 1976      1977      1978      1979       1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Fixed Assets
Gross Assets                          100.2    100.2    150.0    150.0    150.0    275.5    275.7    275.7    275.7    275.7
Less Depreciation                        1.9       3.8       6.8       9.8      12.8      19.0      25.2      31.4      37.6      43.8
Net Fixed Assets in Use                98.3      96.4    143.2    140.2    137.2    256.5    250.5    244.3    238.1    231.9
Work in Progress                         2.6      34.5       7.7      36.5    109.3        -         -         -         -         -
Total Fixed Assets                  100.9    130.9    150.9    176.7    246.5    256.5    250.5    244.3    238.1    231.9
Current Assets
Cash in Hand/Bank                      22.1      11.9       2.0       8.8        6.8     10.1       13.1      18.8      27.3      38.5
Stores                                   2.9      2.0       2.2       2.3        2.5       2.7       2.9       3.2       3.5       3.7
Accounts Receivable                      8.7       5.6       6.7       7.3       7.9       8.6       9.4       9.7      10.1      10.9
Total Current Assets                 33.7      19.5      10.9      18.4      17.2      21.4      25.4       31.7      40.9      53.1
Total Assets                        134.6    150.4    161.8    195.1    263.7    277.9    275.9    276.0    279.0    285.0
Liabilities
Equity Account
Government Capital                     20.2      20.2      22.7      32.0      42.7       42.7      42.7      42.7      42.7      42.7
Capital Investment by Port Corp.        .2.6     29.3      55.9      68.1      88.5    100.6    114.8    128.2    141.6    155.0
General Reserve                        29.9      16.9        5.1       9.5       5.1       2.9       0.4       0.4       3.3       9.1
Total Equity                         52.7      66.4      83.7    109.6    136.3    146.2    157.9    171.3    187.6    206.8
Long Term Debt                          80.0     82.6       76.4      83.7    125.4    129.5    115.6    102.2          88.8      75.4
Current Liabilities                      1.9      1.4        1.7       1.8       2.0       2.2       2.4       2.5       2.6       2.8
(Account Payable)
Total Liabilities                   134.6    150.4    161.8    195.1    263.7    277.9    275.9    276.0    27. C    285.0
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1977



YAR - PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE PORTS & MARINE AFFAIRS CORPORATION, 1976
Ministry of
Public Works
Board of Directors
CHAIRMAN
Director General
Manager                MaaeetMrin  Afart                                                                                                      Crgo-andln                                                             TechnicalSrie
MOHA PORT               Department                                                   DepartmenttDprmn
I~~~~~~ I
Potge            Naviga-
Finance         Adiitai                   trs&tionalDeg                                                                    qi-Soag                                uevso                uligsWrso                                 oe                   ae
Be r ing              Aids                 i                      T
Budget, Revenue Acct.
Expense Acct.
Cash
Source: PMAC                                   Note: Managers in blocks 2 to 5 mainly look after Hodeidah operations;
they also give technical advice in their respective fields to Mocha.
October 1976
World Bank-1 7031



I
i
Ii



YAR-PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Work Program and Critical Path
ITEM                                         1977                   1978                   1979                   1980                   1981
1. Selection of Consultants
2. Basic Planninq - Hodeida and Mocha
3. Designs, Documents, Tenders, Evaluation                                      . L.l
of Bids, and Award of Contracts for Civil Works
4. Constructionr:
Hodeida
Berth No. 5                                                               - -  -  -  -  -
Berth No. 6                                                                                                        l
Paving                                                                                                         _   L
Rehabilitation of Existing Berths & Shed
Slipway
Harbour Craft Jetties
Oil Terminal Jetty
Buildings and Utility Services                                                                              .      _        -|
Dredging of Basin and Channel                                            .                     __._ __i
(including Retention Dikes for Berth No.6)    .          - _        - _                                                                                         I 2
Mocha                                                                                                                                                             E
Rehahilitationof Pier, Paving, Buildings                                                     -                                                                 c -   '
Utility Services & Lighthouse Structure                                                                                                                         | -i
Dredging                                                                                                                                                      E'
01
5. Designs, Documents, Tenders,Evaluation
of Bids, and Awards of Contracts for Equipment                        .     ....._
6. Supply and Erection:
Hodeida
Floating Craft
Cargo Handling Equipment                                                                                                I
Slipway
Navigational Aids                                                                                                                                                l-t
Mocha
Cargo Handling Equipment
Navigation Aids and Generators                                                                                -
7. Supervision                                                                                                                                        -
Activities
...-..--------.  Tender Period
- -  -  - _      Activities separately undertaken by
PMAC (not included in project)
Source: Bank Appraisal Mission, Jan. 1977                 Critical Path                                                                                   World Bank-16719



I
I



!___._____._16_I BkD ]2564R
' ,'5A U D I    A RA B I A                                      YEMEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL LOCATION
A                                        |                                            JR A A  '            'A l    -    TI.)'< .EL I II 1. 1'
0A;Fa)jVCRo%\k, X   S  g                                                                                  > 20 40
DAl 0.,,
Kjol                                                     0       20 4o0dlet     AC      SR 0nH  b
AR~ ~   ~               A       AbrdAd ,n A                       AT                                                                             CAF  ERA 2t0-  
Hodei              .                      ,     ,      j\         ,   5
/Io o     \       A/)~' 2\ '0/                     3     i                                                 20_MART
LDhAAIC~1oh oQ                          2.,   .t     0 : .                      A
A~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~' 
4I         h                                                          '                             A                                                   4'
H.,        '           7                 A   '.
kb_                                         PEOPLE'S   DEMOCRAT C   REPUFBLIC   OF   Y E M E N
E TC H  0                                      P I A 
SF'                          /QAb                                                      RA
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~2S' T H  O PI                                                        >
F/ FT A. I
44           (,,a,,  ,,,,,  ;;    '8  ^''; '.u! .!   I






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
90Mg                                                                                  PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/ /r'                                                         \.\          \                                                      HODEIDAH PORT
/  9$,r1r  X      2                                        Proposed Port Facilities
1'roposed Area to be Dredged
Proposed Port Area to be Paved
- / ~O.di Teern,                                                              /   Ao rt=l Proposed Rehabl t R                                          atb,on of Existnq Port Facdht,es
/ /     .      .                                                        Be,rlh,    /                                              E\  ] Existing Port Fac,lt,es
'I1                                                              /                                                   w * re- i >  r rf Fac, nles Under Constructhon (Outsode DA P,oIecl)
T 4?(rr  >/   hed  /  /.  . \                                 Water Depth Be ow MLWST n Metcrs
Existi rg Roads
B-rth I
9.S'rn                       r,j 
/    OC/ r                                                                                       XS  1 srFrrsoha 
BSsor,i4r /              l                                                                        /N                               -_                      rorl
A-l /2                                                                                                                                 ,\ SHPHNe
JfTTIFS -:9F'~
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~>0 /              E         leari   .00  C\00                                    H a OOr  r
_ _ _______  .__  _   _        <   __ _ _ ______/   _                                 4-z- =zFf}51  44o      4ie      -____  4_____________  w sb r   i  s
StPCANEL
W    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUBSN TO
I EIIIE"   'I'  ~ ~   ~    ~     B ~EPNED
P.,
ElbCCIO                                                -  -D1h, lh
ar                    OaCll40 Colsos,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
____________                            - 'oCtq                          OISCIW5C        4255E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 12566R
APRIL 1977
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MOCHA PORT
IL -4 .0                            $                             Proposed Port Facilities
r ~  ;.  \                                      -,~, -.,, v. Area Being Dredged by PMAC (1976-77),
Not Parr of IDA Project
_   <  ////X Proposed Port Area to be Paved
J    Existing Port Facilities
-4.5m   Water Depth in Meters, Below MLWST
. AR.A    E                                                          Roads
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 4- 6.    Booz5_1  
5 , s                                                                          FEET
S"N0 P /                                                        90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9~   150  210  240
I' i  /   _  >    ~    v                                           METERS
-X?~~~~~~~~~~~
9u,</ ~ ,,,,4h//
-HARBOR MASTERS OFFICE                                                -8∞   4-            5x d               8
-CUSTOMS OFFICE                                                                                   S..diA,.6i
l6~~~~ ~YEMEN7
CUSTOMS                                                                                 oSano           es
SHED                                                                                          ,  De,laoci6
1'~~~~~~I'
4, - 4MOC44i       6
SordBaA nLl sld;.<   2f  f, 1 44        67



