Document of
The World Bank
IFO O@FI ECHAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2009a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR
A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 6, 1977
This docwumet has n restricted distrinbnffoon nnd rmny be used by recipienmts only in the perfoirmance of
their olkcial duinties. IlRs contents maDy not otherwise be disclosed without World IB ank niuthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                  =             YRls 4.501/
YRls 1                              US$0.22
YRls   OOO            '             US$222
YRls 1,00O0000                      US$222,222
FISCAL YEAR
JULY 1 to JUNE 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO              Central Planning Organization
FRG              Federal Republic of Germany
PMAC             Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
PRC              Peoples Republic of China
UNDP            UBnited Nations Development Programme
USAID            United States Agency for International
Development
YAR              Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemen Rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$6.0 million, equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to
the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a port development project.
The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the Ports and Marine Affairs
Corporation (PMAC) at an interest rate of 9 percent per annum repayable over
a period of 20 years, including five years grace. The YAR Government is ex-
ploring with other external sources the provision of US$12.0 millipn towards
the cost of the project, under parallel financing arrangements.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
the Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. An updating mission
visited YAR in early 1977 and its findings are reflected in this section.
Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        The YAR is among the least-developed countries in the world.    This
underdevelopment has its roots in three major factors: (a) the country's
long isolation from the rest of the world, which ended with the revolution
against the traditional regime of the Imams in 1962, but in fact was not fully
overcome until the end of the subsequent civil war (1962-70), (b) the paucity
of natural resources, and (c) the critical shortage of educational facilities
and of modern technical and administrative skills.
4.        The Government has successfully introduced basic elements of modern
administration in recent years and has sought to alleviate the problems asso-
ciated with a meagre resource base by adopting liberal emigration policies
towards Yemenis seeking employment abroad and welcoming the inflow of foreign
assistance. This policy has paid increasing dividends, and workers' remit-
tances and foreign aid and grants (mainly from Saudi Arabia) have increased
substantially, particularly over the last three years. Limitations on YAR's
absorptive capacity are consequently becoming the main constraint on develop-
ment. The Government is making substantial efforts to step up its development
outlays, while at the same time building up appropriate institutional struc-
tures and training people in necessary skills. Pressure on available skills
is consequently high, and middle level skills as well as specialized skills
have to be imported from abroad.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discklsed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Economic Structure, Development Objectives and Constraints
5.        YAR's economic structure, although changing, still reflects its
state of extreme underdevelopment. About 70 percent of its estimated popula-
tion of 6.5 million (end 1975) depends on agriculture, which consists largely
of subsistence production. Internal transport and communications, though
expanding, still leave many parts of the country isolated from each other.
While the main -road system has been rapidly developed and the education system
is expanding, the economic and social infrastructure remains largely under-
developed. The literacy rate of YAR's population barely exceeds 10 percent.
Modern administration systems are still in their infancy and face an acute
shortage of qualified and experienced manpower. Political integration has
been hindered by tribal differences. The end of the civil war left the tribal
sheikhs in a stronger and more independent position than before. This frag-
mentation of power, combined with the inadequacy of institutions and lack of
trained cadres at the Central Government level, hindered the Government's
ability to formulate national economic objectives and carry out a working
program of economic development. However, Central Government control has
gradually spread in recent years and continues to do so, and the building up
of an administrative and security framework is among the Government's highest
priorities.
6.        Despite these constraints, considerable progress has been made in
setting up national economic institutions and introducing development plan-
ning. With significant technical assistance provided by the IMF, the Kuwait
Fund and the Bank, YAR established a Central Bank in 1971, a Central Budget
Bureau and a Central Planning Organization in 1972. Formal budgets were
introduced in 1973/74, a Three-Year Development Program, covering the period
1973/74-1975/76 was implemented, and a Five-Year Development Plan covering the
period 1976/77 through 1980/81 is currently under preparation. In addition,
ministerial committees for participating in planning efforts have been estab-
lished.
7.        Under both these programs, the long-term goals for economic develop-
ment mainly emphasize: (a) the development of agriculture to achieve self-
sufficiency in food; (b) the expansion of the transport and communications
infrastructure to improve economic and social integration; (c) a moderate
industrialization program; (d) education and manpower development to secure
the skills needed for YAR's future development efforts; and (e) government
institution building at the national as well as at local levels. The Three-
Year Development Program, which was confined to public sector development,
envisaged total spending of YRls 936 million (approximately US$208 million).
Actual development expenditure by the Government amounted to YRls 664 million
(US$148 million) during the three-year period, and YRls 600 million (US$133
million) is budgeted for the first year (1976/77) of the Five-Year Plan.
8.        Gross fixed capital formation in the public and private sectors
reached YRls 773 million (US$170 million) in 1975/76, having grown at an
average rate of 16 percent in real terms since 1969/70. The bulk of in-
vestment during the Three-Year Program went-into housing (42 percent) and
transport (27 percent). Investment in agriculture (12 percent) and industry
(7 percent) was relatively small but increased faster than total capital



- 3 -
formation. The low level of investment in the productive sectors is to a
large extent attributable to institutional and manpower constraints. These
difficulties are, however, gradually being overcome and development expendi-
tures for agriculture and industry are expected to grow rapidly during the
Five-Year Plan.
9.        The Plan is now in its final stages of preparation.   It will be more
comprehensive than the Three-Year Program and will provide the authorities
with an opportunity to assess the resources (domestic and foreign) likely to
be available to YAR for development. Appropriate criteria for project selec-
tion are expected to be established in order to bring the number and type of
projects better in line with YAR's potential in institution-building and
manpower development. Investment priorities will be established in the light
of sectoral growth targets, and-a global economic framework is being designed
to provide the basis for a balanced development strategy. All government
ministries and agencies participate actively in the Plan preparation and the
Prime Minister chairs the principal decision meetings.
10.       A dilemma facing YAR's planners relates to emigration of Yemenis
abroad. Workers' remittances finance to a very large extent the foreign
trade deficit. On the other hand, such emigration of workers possessing even
rudimentary skills tends to reduce the country's absorptive capacity. A viable
solution at present may require accelerating the supply of the needed manpower
through rapid development of training institutions.
11.       A basic constraint on development (besides the presently limited
absorptive capacity) is the country's narrow resource base. In agriculture,
which accounts for about half of GDP and for virtually all of the meagre ex-
ports (notably cotton, coffee, and hides and skins), development is seriously
constrained by physical limitations, particularly the erratic nature of rain-
fall, the rugged mountainous terrain and the uncertainty of groundwater
supplies. Food grains (sorghum, millet, maize, barley and wheat) for local
consumption are the principal crops; only modest quantities of cash crops,
mainly cotton, qat 1/ and coffee are produced. The agriculture sector is
predominantly devoted to rainfed grain production, and mainly as a result
of the prolonged drought of 1966-72, has been meeting a decreasing share of
domestic needs. Thus, food imports, in part provided through emergency relief
operations, have grown rapidly from about $20 million in 1971/72 to $176 mil-
lion in 1975/76, constituting almost half of total recorded imports. Although
abundant rainfall during the 1974/75 and 1975/76 crop seasons resulted in
exceptionally large harvests, self-sufficiency in agriculture production
remains a distant goal.
12.       YAR has little mineral resources of known commercial value.    Only
rock salt has been exploited so far. Unlike most countries of the Arabian
Peninsula, YAR has no known oil resources, although exploration is currently
underway. Due largely to the scarcity of natural resources, and the small
domestic market, industry was virtually non-existent until the late 1960's.
1/   Qat is a mildly stimulating leaf, chewed by a considerable portion of
the adult population. It is produced in relatively large quantities.



-4 -
Since then a small number of medium-sized, import substitution plants have
been established, mostly with bilateral ass;istance. They include a textile
mill, a cement factory, a cigarette factory and other plants producing light
consumer manufactures and construction materiails.  Their overall production,
however, still represents only about 10 perc.,nt of GDP. Future industrial
growth will probably remain limited to some import substitution and the
processing of agricultural products unless oi l,r miiineral resources in com-
mercial quantities are discovered.
Recent Developments
13.       YAR's economy remains heavily based ti, :tiibsistence agriculture.
But gradual transformation of the economic struit lire is underway because
of rapid growth in commerce (particularly tradinig tnd banking), government
services, transport, construction and manufacturinig. GDP at constant
prices is estimated to have grown at about 4 percunt a year during 1970/71-
1973/74, and over 10 percent during 1974/75 and 1975/76. The recent accelera-
tion in growth is due to the upsurge in economic atLivity resulting from a
substantial inflow of capital and workers' remittances, as well as a large
increase in agricultural production.   Remittances from workers abroad (largely
in Saudi Arabia) and caslh grants from the Saudi Governiment, in fact, have
become by far the largest sources of foreign exchange. They have enabled
the YAR to sustain large deficits in its balance of trade, and their rapid
increase led to a substantial addition to reserves in 1974/75 and 1975/76
(see paragraphs 14 an(d I ). Direct budgetary support finances the government
current deficit and the -bulk of development outLays (see paragraphs 16-18).
14.       YAR's balance of trade has shown high and widening deficits in re-
cent years.  This has resuLted directly from YAR's increased needs for essen-
tial commodities (particularly foodstuffs) which had to be imported at a time
of shiarply rising prices, ;mnd the limited nature of its exports.  Exports have
stagnated in recelnt yearb ( largely as a result of declining cotton production)
and amounted to about $12 million in 1975/76. hIowever, imports increased to
about $382 million in 1975/76, resulting in a trade deficit of $370 million,
compared with $180 million in 1973/74.   The trade deficit in 1975/76 was
financed throuigih workers' remittances ($457 million) which had grown rapidly
in recent years.  Comimodity and cash grants received (almost entirely from
Saudi Arabia) amounted to $114 million in 1975/76, and together with net
medium and long-term capital inflows of $54 million in the same period led to
an increase in foreign reserves by $286 million.
15.       Total reserves heLd by the Central Bank amounted to $473 million on
June 30, 1976 or the equivaLent of 15 months' imports at the 1975/76 level.
The relatively large amount of reserves reflects Yemen's limited absorptive
capacity as well as the large inElows of workers' remittances and foreign aid.
Yemen's imports are still at a low level ($63 per capita in 1975/76) and are
likely to grow rapidly as present physical and administrative bottlenecks are
being overcome. Workers' remittances and aid inflows, on the other hand, are
of more volatile nature and their volume could change substantially within a
relatively short time.  Yemen's present comfortable reserve position may there-
fore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded quickly if recent trends in



- 5 -
foreign exchange inflows are not sustained. The reserve position has also to
be viewed in the context of the country's dependence on agriculture and its
vulnerability to the vagaries of weather. A repetition of the severe drought
which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would necessitate the import of foodstuffs in
even higher than the present volume adding substantially to the country's
foreign exchange requirements.
16.       YAR's budgetary situation is characterized by persistent deficits
on current account, because of the small tax base. YAR'S aggregate tax effort
remains weak, and the tax/GDP ratio (about 10 percent) is low. However, bud-
getary performance has been slowly improving as indicated by the higher growth
rate of government current revenues compared with current expenditures over
the last few years. Current revenues increased from about YRls 200 million
(US$44 million) in 1972/73 to YRls 565 million (US$126 million) in 1975/76,
i.e., at an annual rate of 42 percent (substantially higher than the growth of
GDP), while current expenditures increased by about 30 percent per annum over
the same period to YRls 604 million (US$134 million) in 1975/76. Most of the
absolute increase in revenues was accounted for by higher customs receipts
from increased imports (which now provide 70 percent of total Government
revenues). The increase in current spending resulted largely from higher
outlays on defense and security which in 1975/76 claimed 49 percent of total
current expenditure; and from salary increases for the very low-paid Govern-
ment civil servants in mid-1974. Expenditures for security (including cash
grants to tribes) were considered necessary, given the socio-political situa-
tion and the need to strengthen the central authority. Salary increases were
necessitated by the need to build up and retain qualified Government admin-
istrative staff since wage increases in the private sector have generally
exceeded those in the public sector. During 1975/76, the Government con-
tinued to restrain current expenditures. However, another salary increase was
granted in July 1976 largely for low paid government: employees to compensate
for deterioration in real income caused by inflation. Nevertheless, in view
of the sharp rise in revenue resulting from better Lax collection and the
higher import volume, the current deficit in 1976/77 is expected to remain
relatively small.
17.       The deficits, together with a large part of government development
expenditures, are expected to be financed, as in past years, through direct
budgetary support from Saudi Arabia. In addition, the Government continues
to receive substantial amounts of foreign loans. As a result, government
deposits with the banking system have been increasing since 1972/73. With
the improved budgetary situation the Government has recently increased Gov-
ernment support (both for technical services and project financing) for
projects programmed through the Central-Planning Organization (CPO). The
Ministry of Finance is also making direct allocations to economic ministries
for some development expenditures including small projects which the minis-
tries can implement on their own.
Capital Flows and External Debt
18.       Prior to 1970, the major aid donors were:     the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republic (USSR), the People's Republic of China (PRC), Egypt and
the German Democratic Republic. These have now beein replaced in importance



- 6 -
by Arab states and their development funds, by the UN, IDA, the Federal
Republic of Germany (FRG), USA, the UK and the Netherlands. Foreign assis-
tance received by the YAR is currently on highly concessional terms (largely
due to the cash grants from Saudi Arabia). However, continued dependence on
foreign aid has had a strong impact on YAR's existing external debt position.
Total external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1976 was estimated at
$519 million, of which $276 million was disbursed. The major creditors were:
USSR, IDA, PRC, FRG, the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. Debt contracted with
IDA as of December 31, 1976, accounted for $94 million or about 18 percent of
the total reported debt. One more credit totalling $10 million was signed in
January 1977.
19.       Over 40 percent of YAR's total debt outstanding constitutes interest
free loans mainly provided by PRC and the USSR. About 35 percent have been
received at service charges and interest rates ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 per-
cent. These are mainly from IDA, FRG, Kuwait and the Kuwait Fund. The
remaining 15 percent have been provided at interest rates reaching up to 6
percent. The debt service for 1975/76 was estimated at $3.7 million, equiva-
lent to about 33 percent of merchandise exports but less than 1 percent of
total exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances. Since
YAR is one of the least developed countries in the world, with grossly inade-
quate commodity exports, and with potentially unstable workers' remittances,
it will have to continue to seek external loans on concessionary terms for
some time to come.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       The proposed credit would be the thirteenth to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to US$109.8 million. Apart from the US$5.0 million Credit
for the livestock project approved in October 1976, and the US$10.0 million
Credit for the Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage project approved in
December, 1976, about 35 percent of all credits have been disbursed and about
55 percent are committed under contracts. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes on the execution of on-going
projects, as of March 31, 1977.
21.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure, prerequisite for development,
and to begin lending in the dominant productive sector--agriculture. In 1971,
the Bank made a grant of US$200,000 to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors;
in September 1973 a second Bank grant of US$200,000 to make possible the con-
tinuation and expansion of the planning team services, was approved. In
January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant of US$120,000 to provide for
the continuation of the services of a planning team including those of a
management/public administration expert. The Kuwait Fund joined with a grant
of about US$425,000. The Bank is also providing technical assistance for
institution building to the Ministry of Agriculture through the services of
seven advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.



- 7 -
22.       To assist in building up the essential phiysical infrastructure and
related institutions, IDA has extended two credits for highways, one in 1972
for US$7.7 million and one in 1975 for US$9.0 million, which also helped to
create and support a National Highway Authority. IDA extended a credit for
Water Supply in Sana'a in 1974 for US$6.3 million, a credit for Water and
Sewerage in Hodeidah in 1975 for US$8.1 million, and in December 1976 a credit
for the Second Sana'a Water Supply and Sewerage Project for US$10.0 million,
all three of which support the National Water and Sewerage Authority. The
Arab Fund contributed US$21 million to finance the sewerage component in the
liodeidah project and US$17.1 million to finance the water supply component in
the Second Sania'a project. To assist in the development of Education, IDA has
extended two credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million, which together with
aid from UNDP, FRG and the United Arab Emirates, financed expansion of teacher
training and secondary and vocational education; and the second for $8 million
in 1976 whichi is a follow-up to the first project. To develop infrastructure
and productioni in YAR's major sector, agriculture and agroindustries, IDA has
made four credits. The first credit of $10.9 million in 1973 was for the
Tihanma Agricultural Development Project, to which the Kuwait Fund contributed
$6.4 million; to meet major cost increases, the Kuwait Fund approved in 1975
a loan of $9.6 million to the project, and IDA also approved a Supplementary
credit of $10.3 million in March 1976. The second Agricultural credit of
$10.0 million was made for the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project in
1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund participated with $10.0 million. The third
credit of $5.2 million for a Grain Storage and Processing Project was approved
in June 1976. The Saudi Fund for Development joined with a loan of $11.0
million tinder parallel financing arrangements. A fourth credit of $5.0 mil-
lion for a livestock credit and processing project was approved in October,
1976. The Kuwait Fund (US$11.6 million), the Netherlands (US$7.5 million)
and time UK (US$2.4 million) are participating in thle financing of the project
under parallel financing arrangements.    A $2.3 million credit for an Industrial
Estate Project was approved in 1974. The project is designed to stimulate
investment in small-scale industry and provide a model for future industrial
development.
23.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the in-
stitutional progress mnade in the essential sectors of transportation, agricul-
ture and public utilities, help provide the necessary manpower training, and
continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment
program. Particular attention in preparing future projects will continue to
be given to the country's ability to implement these projects and to ensuring
the availability of key staff and other means needed for successful implemen-
tation. In keeping with this strategy a textiles project, an agricultural
project, a third highway project and a power project are in the preparation
stage. The Bank Group's lending 'strategy recognizes that YAR is among the
poorest of the 29 least-developed' countries 1/ and thus requires special assis-
tance, which justifies IDA fiLnancing of a large part of project costs, includ-
ing local expenditures. Since project costs are in excess of the limited IDA
funds available, efforts have been made to obtain co-financing from other
1/   As defined by the UN.



- 8 -
donors. In addition to its own commitments of US$103.8 million, IDA has also,
since 1973, successfully played a catalytic role through its projects in
securing about US$119.0 million of co-financing from other aid donors (Arab
Fund US$38.1 million; Kuwait Fund US$33.5 million; Abu Dhabi Fund US$11.0 mil-
lion; United Arab Emirates US$8.0 million; Saudi Fund for Development US$11.0
million; UNDP US$6.6 million; FRG US$0.58 million; the UK US$2.4 million and
the Netherlands US$7.5 million). A further US$14.5 million will be provided
by the Saudi Fund for financing certain components of the Sana'a Second Water
Supply and Sewerage Project. YAR's level of poverty and the weak structure of
its balance of payments have in the past justified a large portion of local
currency financing by the Association; however, YAR has contributed an increas-
ing portion of local currency financing and is expected to continue to finance
a rising portion of its development expenditures in the future.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transportation System
24.       The development of a modern transport infrastructure in YAR began
in the late 1950's. Before that, the transportation facilities were confined
to primitive tracks and the very inadequate ancient port at Mocha. In 1958
the Government began construction with assistance from the USSR of a new port
at Hodeidah. Thereafter, a small international airport was built in Sana'a
with the aid of FRG which provides adequate terminal facilities but is not
equipped for night landing. Recently, a third port, Salif, was built mainly
to handle salt from a nearby mine (see Map). A bitumen surfaced road from
Hodeidah to Sana'a, and a gravel road from Sana'a to Mocha, through Taiz, were
constructed between 1957 and 1970, with the assistance of PRC, the USSR, and
USAID. Since 1970, FRG has financed the paving of the Sana'a-Taiz road, and
IDA credits have helped finance the construction of the Taiz-Turba and Taiz-Km
64 roads, the latter being the final link in the paved road system connecting
the three main cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah, and which also constitutes
a major section of the road link from Taiz to the port of Mocha. The World
Food Program and various agricultural projects have initiated improvement of
feeder roads.
Transport Policy and Planning
25.       The Central Planning Organization (CPO) is responsible for for-
mulating and coordinating public investments in the transport sector, while
the Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities is responsible for project
implementation, administration and policy. The Highway Authority, an auton-
omous agency, established in 1972 with I1)A assistance under the First Highway
project (Cr. 315-YAR, 1972), is the executing agency for road projects, and
executes projects either independently or with the help of contractors. It
also is charged with the responsibility for highway maintenance. The Ports
and Marine Affairs Corporation (PMAC) (see paragraph 34) is responsible for
port management and execution of port projects.



- 9 -
26.       Overall transport planning has not yet been launched in YAR, because
the Government has been preoccupied with the task of meeting the obvious and
immediate needs of developing a basic road network, which had hitherto been
largely nonexistent or limited to primitive tracks. However, from 1971, a
team of experts financed by the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, and more recently
a UNDP team have been attached to the CPO to help with overall economic plan-
ning, identification and preparation of investment projects and coordination
of external assistance. They have been instrumental in identifying a number
of development projects. In addition, the feasibility studies in the highway
sector financed by UNDP and later by the Association (as part of its two
highway projects), as also the port development study financed by UNDP and!
the Kuwait Fund, have been of particular assistance in project preparation
in these sectors.
27.       The transport sector has received high priority in the previous
and current national development plans. In the current Five Year Development
Program (1976/77 to 1980/81), the transport and communication sector is pro-
visionally allocated about US$460 million, which is about 30 percent of the
Program's proposed total public investments, and is the largest provision for
any single sector.
Highways
28.       The highway network consists of about 4,090 kilometers of roads of
which 1,140 kms are considered to be main roads. About 930 kms of these main
roads have been paved and a further 60 kms are under construction to meet
paved standards. Traffic between YAR's ports and their hinterland depends
solely on road transport. The Hodeidah and Mocha ports are now linked with
the main consumption areas by good roads -- almost entirely paved, while the
port of Salif (see paragraphs 24 and 33), is expected to have a fair gravel
road linking it to Hodeidah before long.
Ports
29.       YAR has three ports.   Hodeidah, the principal port which is centrally
located, handles over 90 percent of general cargo traffic and all oil imports.
Mocha, a small lighterage port, is well located to serve the prosperous Taiz
district and handles about 8-10 percent of the total general cargo. Salif
is a natural deep-water harbor with a modern, salt-loading pier but has no
general cargo facilities.
30.       The port of Hodeidah, built between 1958 and 1961 with financial
and technical assistance from the USSR, was designed to meet the traffic
requirements of the 1960's. There has been, however, a steady increase in
import traffic at Hodeidah over the past four years, during the first three
of which it grew at an annual rate of 8 percent reaching a total of 633,000
tons in 1975. In 1976, there was a sudden jump in this traffic, which, in
one year alone, increased by about 39 percent to 884,000 tons (general cargo
and liquid petroleum products). This phenomenal growth is the result of an
upsurge in demand for imported goods required for the investment activities
which are being vigorously pursued both in the public and private sectors,



- 10 -
the previous low per capita availability of modern consumer and intermediate
goods, and the growing domestic purchasing power due to the increase in
remittances by Yemeni workers employed in the oil-rich neighboring countries.
A small portion of the growth in traffic, less than 8 percent of total cargo
handled in 1976 is attributable to goods re-exported by road to Saudi Arabia.
Since YAR is unlikely, in the near future, to have the manufacturing capacity
to meet the rising demand for consumer and internmediate goods backed by this
growing purchasing power and the tempo of developmental activities which is
expected to be sustained, the trend of increasing imports is likely to continue
and gather momentum in the future. Although construction activities are being
undertaken to expand the facilities at Hodeidah, this unexpected spurt in
traffic has created serious port congestion leading to excessive ship-waiting
periods, the average of which, at the end of 1976, exceeded three months,
causing liner shipping companies to impose congestion surcharges of up to 100
percent of the freight rates. Losses to the country due to excessive ship-
waiting time are estimated to have exceedecd US$25 million in 1976.
31.       Besides the operational difficulties imposed on the port management
by the prevailing physical deficiencies at Hodeidah, such as an inadequate
number of berths, lack of sheds and paved storage roads, and a shortage of
cargo handling and navigation equipment, and of repair facilities, it is also
handicapped by a severe shortage of personnel trained in port operations and
management. In spite of these problems, and pressed on by both the Government
and the public to rapidly unload the urgently required imports, Hodeidah was
able to achieve high output rates during 1976. The equivalent of 2-1/2 berths
handled a total general cargo of 660,000 tons. This was achieved by the hard
work put in by the dock workers laboring under hot and humid climatic condi-
tions, accompanied at times by sand storms. A consequence has been rough
handling and chaotic storage and shifting of consignments resulting in con-
siderable damage to the cargo.
32.       The Port of Mocha, about 180 km south of Hodeidah, has lighterage
facilities, including a 200 m long pier structure built in the 1950's, for
transshipping cargo from ships anchored off the coast. The existing physical
facilities are in poor shape and are sorely in need of repair or replacement.
The pier has deteriorated badly having been neglected and without maintenance
for more than twenty years. The sixty year-old light house is in a dangerous
structural condition and has not functioned for many years. The sole cargo
handling equipment is a dilapidated mobile crane, and the only covered storage
available is an old shed. Utility services are lacking and water has to be
transported to the port from the town. Added to these is the major problem
of the silting up of its basin and approaches. The berth area adjacent to
the pier was virtually silted up in 1975. Dredging alongside the pier to a
depth of 4.0 was started late in 1976 by PMAC, which will also undertake the
dredging of a sandtrap in 1977. Faced by these problems, the Port of Mocha
has been relatively idle with the volume of traffic from 1973 to 1975 stag-
nating at about 90,000 tons, and dropping to 50,000 tons in 1976. However,



- 11 -
as a result of long waits in Hodeidah, traffic in Mocha, after completion of
the dredging, is expected to increase gradually reaching 180,000 tons per year
by 1982. The physical development of Mocha beyond the level of a lighterage
port, however, would be extremely expensive in terms of the enormous dredging
and breakwater requirements, compared to the further development of Hodeidah.
33.       Salif, about 75 km north of Hodeidah, has 15 m depth of water
available close inshore. The salt loading facility, completed in 1976 with
financial aid from the Kuwait Fund, consists of a pier capable of accommodat-
ing 50,000 dwt vessels, connected by conveyor belts to the local salt mines
close to the port. Salt traffic through the facility has not yet commenced,
pending contractual arrangements with potential buyers. Salif is presently
connected by a sand track to Hodeidah, which is also its main link to other
towns. Though Salif lacks proper facilities to handle general cargo, some
ships are presently directed there to relieve the current congestion at
Hodeidah. It is envisaged that Salif will concentrate on salt traffic; for
general cargo it will operate only as a standby port with marginal facilities
which could be used when ship-waiting in Hodeidah becomes excessive. In spite
of Salif's deep-water access, it is not yet a suitable location for the next
phase development of general cargo facilities on account of its longer distance
from main consumption centers, the lack of supporting township and dependence
on desalination plants for fresh water.
Port Organization and Management
34.       Acutely aware of the bottleneck to development caused by the opera-
tional difficulties of its ports, the YAR Government, established in 1976 an
autonomous entity, PMAC, with full administrative and financial powers to
operate the ports in YAR, under the general control of the Ministry of Public
Works and Municipalities. PMAC has its headquarters in Hodeidah, and presently
operates both the Hodeidah and Mocha ports. The salt pier in Salif is owned
and managed by the Yemen Salt Mining Corporation, but any general cargo
facilities developed in Salif will be the responsibility of PMAC.
35.       PMAC has a seven member Board of Directors, including the Chairman
and Director-General; all are appointed by the Government. It has a total
staff of about 400. About ten technical personnel from the USSR assist the
ports in various operational functions like pilotage, workshop operations and
training, construction works, and power plant operations and their contracts
are renewed on a yearly basis. Being a newly-created entity, PMAC is still
in the process of organizing itself, and given the sudden increase in the
operations under its management, it would benefit significantly from tech-
nical assistance and advice in building up its organizational structure.
Port Investment Program
36.       Prior to the completion of the master plan study (December 1976)
development of the ports in YAR did not follow any long-term plan. Plans for
the construction in Hodeidah of berth No. 4 with USSR assistance, together
with a new 5-ton crane, were agreed in 1974 and the work, undertaken through
a local contractor, should be completed by the end of 1977. The Government



- 12 -
has undertaken to ensure that this berth would be ready by not later than
April 30, 1978 (Section 3.02(a), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Government has recently decided to build, also with USSR assistance, berth
No. 5 which will be a continuation of berth No. 4 under an extension of the
contract for berth No. 4. In so doing it hopes to save on mobilization costs
which would otherwise have been incurred on a separate contract, and possibly
gain about a year in completing its construction. The operation of berth No.
5 is anticipated to begin in late 1978. Berth No. 6 proposed for IDA financ-
ing under the project is to be built at right angles to berth No. 5. Undue
delays in the completion of berth No. 5 would also cause delays in bringing
berth No. 6 into operation as both these berths are to be serviced by common
utilities.1 The technical services department of PMAC charged with the respon-
sibility df implementing the project (see paragraph 49) will coordinate the
construction work of both berths No. 5 and No. 6. To ensure that delays are
not encountered in the construction of berth No. 5, completion of arrangements
satisfacto~ry to the Association by the Government for its timely construction
has been made a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(d), draft
Development Credit Agreement). Also, the Government has agreed that construc-
tion of berth No. 5 would be completed by June 30, 1979 (Section 3.02(b),
draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, four warehouses, three
transit sheds and one weigh-bridge are now under construction, financed by
PMAC's own resources, and to be completed in 1977. The total cost of these
on-going works including berth No. 5, will be about YRls 49.2 million (US$11.0
million). As a short-term emergency measure, PMAC is also planning to con-
struct a temporary floating jetty at Ras Kathib (see map of Hodeidah port) at
the northern end of the Khor Kathib bay. In addition to these items, PMAC's
investment plan covering the next five years consists of the project outlined
in this report, and conforms to the country's draft Five-Year Development Plan
(1976/77 to 1980/81). To allow for a rational development of the ports sub-
sector, provide for an adequate expansion of facilities beyond 1985, and
prevent actions that might adversely affect the project investment, PMAC will
undertake and complete by end 1981 an appropriate study in consultation with
the Association to determine the future investment requirements in the ports
sub-sector (Section 4.04, draft Project Agreement). The Government and PMAC
will be responsible for financing this study. Also, the Government expects to
exchange views with the Association before undertaking additional investments
exceeding US$300,000 equivalent per year in the ports sub-sector.
Previous Bank Group Operations in the Transport Sector
37.       The Bank Group has assisted two projects in the transport sector,
both with IDA credits for highway development. The first project (Cr. 315,
FY73) consisted of construction and supervision of the Taiz-Turba road and
technical assistance to the Highway Authority; the project cost was US$8.6
million, the IDA credit being US$7.7 million, and the remainder being a loan
from the Kuwait Fund. A second project (Cr. 558, FY75) was for construction
of the important Taiz-Km 64 road forming part of the Taiz-Mocha/Hodeidah



- 13 -
circuit (see paragraph 24), and for continuation of technical assistance to
the Highway Authority. The estimated cost is US$15.7 million, the IDA credit
providing US$9.0 million, the Kuwait Fund loan US$5.0 million and the YAR
Government US$1.7 million. Both projects are making satisfactory progress.
In addition, the Bank has been the executing agency for two transport sector
planning studies in YAR - a feasibility study for road investments conducted
in 1971, financed by the [JNI)P; and a port development study during 1975-76,
financed by IJNDP and tlh  Kuwait Fund, on which the present project is partly
based.
PART IV - THEt PROJECT
Background
38.       In 1975 UNDP and the Kuwait Funld responded to a Government request
by financing a study of port development. The Bank Group was the executing
agency for the study, undertaken by Louis Berger International (U.S.A.) and
KAMPSAX (Denmark). This project developed from that study which was com-
pleted in late 1976. The project was appraised by an IDA mission in October
1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 4 to 8 1977. The
Yemeni delegation was headed by H.E. Abdullah Al Kurshumi, Minister of
Public Works and Municipalities.
39.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Port Development Project - Yemen
Arab Republic" (No. 1463a-YAR, dated May 5, 1977) is being distributed sep-
arately. A Development Credit aiid Project Summary is attached as Annex Ill.
Maps showing the project location and the proposed expansion of the ports of
Hodeidah and Mocha are attached.
Project Description
4().      The project would expand YAR's inadequate port facilities, by devel-
opi ig thie porL of llodeidah and by rehabilitating the lighterage port of Mocha
to its original capacity, to meet requirements unltil about 1985. It would
also strengthen the management capability of PMAC through technical assistance
and training, and strengthen the process of rational planning of future port
development in the country.
41.       The project would comprise the following:
(a)  At thie port of llodeidah - the dredging of the approach
channel ancl the port basin to accommodate larger ships of
np to 14,000 dWL (current limit - 8000 dwt); the construc-
tionl of a new berth (No. 6); the construction of a 500-ton
slipway, the first in the country, ancd to be equipped with
a 20 ton mobile crane for repairs and servicing of harbor
crafts; the provision of harbor craft jetties, paving of
open storage areas and resurfacing of roads; the construc-
tion of new service buildings to house PMAC offices, customs



- 14 -
and immigration facilities and a labor office; rehabilitation
of the existing berths, transit sheds and oil terminal; and
the procurement of floating crafts and cargo handling equipment.
(b) At the port of Mocha - civil works necessary for rehabilitating
the pier face and refendering it; resurfacing of roads; the
construction of a transit shed, a new lighthouse and a water
supply system; and the procurement of navigation lights, a
generator to supply power to them and cargo handling equipment,
and
(c) Technical assistance to PMAC comprising engineering consultants
for design and supervision of the project; technical experts to
assist in cargo handling, cost and management accounting, admin-
istration and documentation, dredging and slipway management,
and professional training for selected staff.
Project Costs and Financing
42.       The total project cost is estimated at US$27.9 million of which the
foreign exchange component is US$20.3 million (73 percent). The major items
of expenditure include US$12.5 million for civil works, US$4.9 million for
equipment, US$2.4 million for technical assistance and US$8.1 million for
contingencies. Details of the cost estimates and expected sources of financing
are given in Annex IlI.
43.       The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million, which represents about 22
percent of the total project cost, would finance the entire foreign exchange
costs of berth No. 6, oil terminal, harbor craft jetties and technical serv-
ices (excluding the cost of the slipway project manager). The YAR Government
is exploring with other external sources the provision under parallel financ-
ing arrangements, of US$12 million or 43 percent of the total project cost to
cover the foreign exchange costs of rehabilitating other berths and the tran-
sit sheds, paving, the procurement of equipment, and the services of the slip-
way manager. The signing of a loan agreement(s) between the Government and
other external financier(s) will he a condition of credit effectiveness (Sec-
tion 5.01 (c), draft Development CredLt Agreement). The remaining US$9.9
million or 35 percent of tlhe total project cost would be provided by the
Government (US$5.0 inillion to cover local costs) and by PMAC (US$4.9 million
of which IJS$2.3 miLLion would be for foreign expenditures and the balance to
cover local costs).
44.       Retroactive financing of up to US$50,000 is recommended to cover
expenses on technical assistance (especially for the services of the dredging
advisor and the consulting engineers to prepare detailed design and supervise
construction) incurred after Marchi 31, 1977, so that these activities can be
expedited (Schedule 1, paragraph 4, draft Development Credit Agreement). The
invitation to consultants were issued in mid-April.



- 15 -
45.       Tthe proceeds of the credit will be onlent by the Government to PMAC
throughL a Stubsidiary Loan Agreement, at 9 percent interest for a period of 20
years, iiiclLIdLng five years grace (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement).  The loan(s) from otlher external source(s) of which the Government
would be the borrower is expected t) be on terms similar to that of the Asso-
ciation and wOUld al[so Ie onlent by tlhe c;overnment to PMAC. The Government
contribLit ion will be in tLle form ot e(lUity.
Procureiie,itL and Disbursenient
46.       Civil works contracts to be financed under the credit will be awarded
following internationlal competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
However, conLtracts for civil works of US$50,000 equivalent or less, but in
aggregate not to exceed US$100,000 may be awarded following domestic advertis-
ing in accordanice with the Government's competitive bidding procedures which
are acceptable to the Association. Bidding documents for civil works will
permit bidding either for the entire work or for separate groups of items so
that both domestic and international contractors can participate. A 7-1/2
percent margin of preference would be allowed to domestic civil works con-
tractors. Procurement of items financed from other co-financing sources would
be in accordance with their own guidelines. Selection and appointment of
consultants to be financed under the credit will be in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
47.       Disbursements for Lhe items to be financed under the proposed credit
would cover 70 percent of expenditures for civil works (representing 100 per-
cent of foreign exchange components) and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for technical assistance.
Project Implementation
48.       PMAC would be the executing agency for the project.   Its management
is generally competent, but would need strengthening to execute the project
and to ensure efficient operation of the expanded facilities. Being new, PMAC
is still evolving its management structure. Of the present Board members,
five are full-time, all witlh experience in port management or shipping, while
two part-time members are a legal adviser to the Government and a businessman.
The present Chairmllan andl l)irector-Cenera] were the General Manager and the
Assistant Ceneral-M1anager, respectively, of the formiier Hodeidah Port Authority,
and share overall responsibiLity for port operations. Of the three remaining
full-time members, two are in charge of operational departments - viz. Cargo
Handling and Marine Affairs. PMAC meets regularly with port users and expects
to continue these meetings on a regular basis with a view to improving port
services.
49.       A serious weakness of ttie present port management structure is that
it does not yet have a suitably staffed technical services department to deal



- 16 -
with engineering problems, planning and project execution. At the Associa-
tion's suggestion, the Government and PMAC have agreed to recruit by not later
than December 31, 1977 a civil, a mechanical and an electrical engineer and a
marine surveyor to man the technical services department which will be respon-
sible for project implementation and will be a nucleus for a full-fledged
engineering department responsible for overall maintenance and execution of
works - civil, mechanical and elect:rical - in the future (Section 2.08(a),
draft Project Agreement). A chief engineer to head the technical services
department is to be appointed in consultation with the Association, prior to
credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(f), drlLt D)evelopment Credit Agreement).
PMAC has no statistical unit at present, but has agreed to set up one in its
Cargo llandling i)epartment by March 31, 1978 (Section 2.08(c), draft Project
Agreement). The Statistical unit will develop suitable performance indicators
to monitor improvements in port operations.
Technical Assistance and Training
50.       In pursuing IDA's key objective of institution-building ip YAR, the
project has been designed to include adequate provisions for technical assis-
tance to PMAC. Experts qualified in port operaLions and administration, cost
and management accounting, slipway operation and cargo-handling would be fi-
nanced under the project to initially Eill the shortages in these positions.
They would also assist PMAC in streamlining port procedures and regulations,
help design a suitable management structure with clearly defined lines of re-
sponsibilities, train maintenance technicians and provide on-the-job training
for PMAC staff in cargo-handling, slipway management and general port opera-
tions (Section 2.02(a)(ii), draft Project Agreement). It was agreed during
negotiations that a qualified slipway expert and three supporting staff would
be appointed no later than December 31, 1979 (Section 2.02(b), draft Project
Agreement). The terms of reference for the appointment of the remaining
experts were also discussed. The project provides for training in port
operations and management abroad for PMAC staff. PMAC has agreed that staff
selected for training will be given suitable responsibilities on completion
of the training program (Section 2.09, draft Project Agreement).
51.       The proposed credit will also finance engineering consultants'
services for design and preparation of bid documents for the civil works
and equipment, and for management and supervision of contracts placed. The
project contains an estimated 430 man-months of consulting services including
the services of technical experts (see paragraph 50). The estimated costs of
these services is about US$5,100 per man-month. Appointment of the consultants
will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(e), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Finances and Accounts
52.       The financial position ot o 'PAC is generally satisfactory.   The
accounts of Mocha are being merged with those of Hodeidah and from fiscal 1977
onwards financial statements will reflect the transactions of both ports. At
the beginning of fiscal 1977, Hodeidah Port Authority had a cash surplus of
YRls 22.1 million (US$5 million) covering both foreign and local currency.



- 17 -
Adequate maintenance and depreciation charges have not been reflected in the
accounts; however, even after providing for these charges, PMAC is expected,
without changes in the existing tariff (increased in July 1975), to generate
sufficient surplus each year to produce by 1985 a cash balance of YRls 38.5
million (US$9 million) after meeting all obligations including the annual
contribution of Rls 750,000 (about US$167,000) to the Government which it
makes in lieu of income tax, and programmed capital expenditures inclusive of
its contribution to the project cost. To ensure that PMAC earns an adequate
return on investment, it would be required to set and periodically adjust
tariffs and control costs. PMAC has agreed that it would take steps to ensure
that the annual net revenues are sufficient to provide a return on net fixed
assets of not less than 9 percent, except during 1981 to 1983 when it should
not be less than 6 percent per annum (Section 4.03(a), draft Project Agree-
ment). The projections show that PMAC is expected to achieve these rates of
return.
53.       The Finance Division of PMAC' (under the General Management Depart-
ment), consisting of about 17 men, prepares the annual budget and compiles
the accounts.  The procedures for recording revenues and expenses qre gener-
ally satisfactory. Accounts are compiled on both monthly and yearly basis
with the latter showing a comparison of the actuals with the budgete estimates.
Some deficiencies that exist such as absence of stores accounting and depre-
ciation adjustments are being remedied commencing with the accounts for fiscal
1977. In view of the increasing investments and the anticipated growth in
traffic, the responsibilities of this division will grow substantially. In
keeping with this increased responsibility and to underscore the need for
management to give due attention to the financial function in port operations,
the division's status will be raised to that of a Department by June 30, 1978
(Section 2.08(b), draft Project Agreement).
54.       The original investment in the Hiodeidah port was financed partly by
a Government contribution and partly by an interest-free loan of YRls 80 mil-
lion (US$18 million) from the USSR, which is to be repaid in 10 installments
from 1978. The annual financial statements do not reflect these transactions;
nor do they show the total value of the assets. As no proper record was avail-
able of the capital investments, the Government appointed three committees
to review the assets and to assess their values. The committees' valuation,
totalling only YRIs 24.8 million (US$6 million), is felt to be too low, and
a reasonable estimate would be about YRIs 100.2 million (US$22 million), the
figure adopted in the appraisal report.    The Government has agreed to review
the work of the committees and to adopt a realistic valuation based on the
original acquisition cost of land and the present value of the other assets.
In order to permit a reaListic assessment of PMAC's operating targets in terms
of rates of return and to compensate for the eroding effects of inflation,
provision has been made Lto have PMAC revalue its assets for fiscal 1976 by no
later than September 30, 1977 and periodically thereafter at not more than
five-yearly intervals (Section 4.03(c), draft Project Agreement). In this
regard PMAC will obtain advice on the basis and frequency of such revaluation
from the cost and management accountant to be appointed under the technical
assistance component of the project (see paragraph 50). The accounts for
fiscal 1976 will be revised on this basis; this was confirmed during nego-
tiations.



- 18 -
55.       The accounts of PMAC are audited and certified by a domestic firm of
qualified accountants whose work is satisfactory. They have completed an audit
of the accounts for fiscal 1976 on the basis of the asset valuations referred
to above and will review the accounts after the Government has decided on the
revised valuations.
Insurance
56.       The Government does not presently insure its property with any
agency, but assumes responsibility for all risks. A Government Insurance
Company has been started recently and the Ministry of Public Works and Muni-
cipalities has indicated that it will consider, in consultation with the
other Ministries, the advisability of insuring PMAC assets with this Company.
Suitable provision will be made for insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate port practices (Section 3.04,
draft Project Agreement).
Environment
57.       Development of the ports of Hodeidah and Mocha does not impinge
on any known plans for their respective areas and there will be no additional
element which might be detrimental to the existing environment. As a protec-
tion measure, floating boom equipment will be provided to contain spillage
that may occur at the oil terminal. By providing welfare and sanitary facili-
ties for port workers, the project will improve the environment in the port
area.
Economic henc fits and Risks
58.        Most of YAR's foreign trade passes tthrough its ports-primarily
through liodeidah and partly through Mocha. YAR's total port traffic in 1976
consisted of 0.8 million tons of general cargo and 0.25 million tons of liquid
petroleum prodults.   Port traffic, mostly imports, in Hodeidah saw a sudden
and explosive increase of about 39 percent leading to waiting times of over
three months catusing shipping companies to impose congestion surcharges (see
paragraph 30). Traffic is projected to increase rapidly over the next few
years and more than double in volume by 1985 to about 2.5 million tons.      The
facilities to be provided under the on-going works by the Government and by
the proposed projecL would reachi optinium utilization by then. The project
oni completion wouild produce benefits through savings in foreign exchange by
avoiding demurrage due to reduction in ship-waiting and service time as a
result of the increased port capacity and throughput; economies of scale in
using larger ships for bulk grain and petroleum products due to the deeper
drafts provided by the project; savings from reduced cargo damage, brought
about by relief of congestion, paved storage areas, the use of cargo-handling
equipment and supervision of trained personnel; savings in internal transport
cost in using Mocha for serving the Taiz area, made possible by the additional
capacity needed at Mocha; and increase in employment of dock labor, equipment
operators, maintenance techn,licians and office staff.



- 19 -
59.       The economic return on the project is estimated to be over 41 per-
cent, with a first year return of 18 percent. Separate analyses for the
Hodeidah and Mocha investments indicate a return of about 40 percent for
Hodeidah, and a still higher yield for Mocha. These results highlight the
strong economic justification and urgency of the project investments. No
separate analysis of economic return has been made for the various components
of the project, since, with the exception of Mocha investments, they are
closely interrelated.  The high rate of economic return from the project,
compared to its rather normal first year return, is a reflection of the large
benefits to be derived from avoiding the heavy port congestion costs that
would occur from about 1985 onwards if the project were not undertaken.
60.       There are no major risks associated with the project.   However,
sensitivity analyses have been undertaken to determine the impact on the
project of less than anticipated growth in traffic and of possible increases
in cost. Even with an increase of 25 percent in costs the rate of return
for the entire project remains attractive at 36 percent while a decrease of
25 percent in benefits from a lower than forecast traffic volume or other
causes would leave the rate of return at 34 percent, and with both these
conditions occurring at the same time the return would still be a high of
29 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the Project Agreement between the Ports and
Marine Affairs Corporation and the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of the Resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Exectuive Directors separately.
62.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement and the Project
Agreement of special interest are referred to in Section III of Annex IV.
63.       Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement provides
the following additional conditions of effectiveness: (a) the ratification
of the project agreement by all necessary governmental and corporate action,
(b) the execution and ratification of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Borrower and PMAC, (c) the signing of Loan Agreement(s) between the Bor-
rower and other co-financier(s) for an amount of US$12.0 million, (d) comple-
tion of arrangements by the Borrower for the timely construction of berth No.
5, (e) the appointment of consultants to assist in implementing the project,
and (f) the appointment of a chief engineer to head the technical services
department.



- 20 -
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1977



Ii                                                                      5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Z5                                                                                       5
ci iis1                                                                   .4l ~ 1  0  O bbw
6 0  aT.-  t
me  04.5 ~ ~ ~   -        0       OO 
F'          aae                                    -.
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
480  -  0 1 4 4   C                     -           0   0 a* 00 0  0  0   M  *~ -   040 
S    S..    54.5  ~~~~~~~ 0.t  -M             S  S S  - 5*
4004      a                     s-Os  em~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C tC%- -  '  .  a
0 . ~ ~ f                                     1 4 a0 3 ao   o4               010 1
a                                   4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4
aSh. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --     t          .   . - Saa            .s
make  1-S                                         s&n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W.1  z a c  P-Ia IL  -cjCada C]  5
ISO  CS                                         %J%j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  W laSoo fo  '  j -, - '
*  K'S  .  .~~~~~~~~~  5....  ~ ~ ...  !!..  .5.  .. . *  55             .   -   . .
ow  rem  -.  saS  .aa..s~~~ "b'                      :: M.. Z0   Ur  a               aaaaqoe.Z
.05  *5  -~~QVI  a                           ft -      -mc 
~~~e   as ON                                           Ce aW  aZ  .  0                    5W a  MW 
*   .5,                                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41  :Z  
Os   6                                                                            6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lV  2 2 --C
as                                                            S~~90  4,- wz a :,Z GL In w a  2 L  M "
Ce                                                                             S~~~~~~~~MVo bza f2 ~ Z W O W  .  z  b
1-.                                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a M -IOb  
CflStCe.  50  Ca  ac o  av~a e  aP4   ocr               ccc a   a        -o   - a  4a  *Gaw  a
4855W  S-S  caafl  0w                    -ac  CC      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  --



Pegs 2 of 4. pases
Unless otherwisie noted, data for 1960 refeor to say y.ar betoe 1959 andl 1961, for 19T0 botwe.o~ 1968 and 1970 easd for Most Decent Zstimt* between,
1973 mnd 1P75.
*  Ppaletion includes rmsidents living abroad which to estiamt.d at 1 .2 minlIn in 1975.
Dueb to migmhtin popnlat.ion growth rate is lassr then the rat. of omtoral inoreass.
-*l   Jordan is selected asmo Objective coastry for !eAn Arab Regp. singce both oitntries smr Azab with similar eonmiO      sysems   have no Import
mineral reecarceel have Urzge ocabere of efigrents -boo.. remittances usbetantlmlly ficmea  tin. Import, bill, and both aep  nde  foreign
aid to spoMrt large porticose of their currant and goavrsasn moditare.
YEHER  RAB R .  m         Ptleatad birth and death rates for 1970 eam 0..3 end 28.7 raspectivelyj       A   1964.-6.
lOT    3?     T3   I?    /a   Ketitentd birth end death ratos for 1975 mare 15.8 end 26.9 respactivelyj     &  Rasto of population
undew 15 endl 65 mod svear to total labor forcej    &  labor force, relate to raeldmut popuslatioo of 4..?
minion only;     L.4 1969-71 average.
hZMAK=            12Z     Ls   Including assistant unreet, aidwives end amaetant eideieeej      A     winsldlg eatarniv and rural lo,pitelsl
La Public education Only.
vimA               1M     /a   Personnel in govearnmemnt Nesricoo only;  A    Including eldieise.
AM                     -~~~~~at bask onlY;  /b  Ratio Of PnPlaIt.io  under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force)    &  1961.-n63    Li161
LI Including MOM schools.
R2, PArch 114. 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Aree (thou inn2)                                                          Puoulatio  par -ur,inc parso   - Populatiao divided by nnbar Of practticig
Tot.l   Total surface area conprising land ae.aend inland watera.-. coeand feacet                graduate cuss"treined" or       certified" auss,ad
Agric.  M-Mot recent eaticate of agricuitural arac used tempoa-rily or           -usillesy personnel with training or eoperienac.
petnacetly for croupe, peaturee, narket & kitches gardena Or to lie          Popuistion per hospital bed - Popluiato   divided by camber of hospital beda
folios,                                                    av~~~~~~~~~~~~ailable in public acd private generl and  pe.i.lizod hoapital end
rehabilitation cctara; exclude. nursing hdes end astabli.lanots for
GNP Par c.Pit. (US$)   GNP per capita eaticatoa at -rorret market pi... cutodia1 sad pre-entiva care.
.reim-thcdas Wold Bak Atl. (193- pr      Per ..Pit. supply af cliCa     % of requfraosscte) - Computed from, energy
calculated by an    ovrIo m7      hda     ordbn       lts(9     75             equivalect of net food suppliesa available in, country per capita per day;
b..i.), 1960, 1970 and   9 5 d.t..                          -4~~avilable supplian comsprise doaseotic production, imports less o.part.,
P ultia and vital stiatitics                                                  aad chargea im clok; act supplies seclude animal feed, seeda, luati-
Populatio    id-yr. aillico) -o Of July fir.t: if aa       vial,tics uoad in food proceasiag and losses In distribution; requi.ements
average of t.o end-year .sticat.a, 1960. 1970 and 1975 data,                   ware e-ciaetd by PAO hose.d en physiological amdo for ma-Ina aoeivit
sand health cona idering enircneta1 temperetuce, body wsights, aSe emd
PIZ'                                                       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sec distributiona of population, end allossag 101L for wste at hosseehald
Pop tlaton density - per qsure ke - Mid-year population per equare kil-         level.
cea  100 hetrse) of tata1 area.                                            Pe.caia net                                   - Protein content of pet
Population density - cer .4aar. le of garic. loand - Computed as aboo for         --pite mar supply of food Par day, net supply of faod Is defined as
agricultural land only.                                                         above; requir-xeta far .ll ovutrica establiahed bY USDA fenomasic
geseAroh Servicso provide for a   fniaaos, eisaoof hin aren     af itel
Vital statietics                                                                   p-rotin per day, sod 20 er-c  of aelcoI and pulse protein, of which
CAJiiniXillkte j.etA2UAacd  averoe  - Annual live birtha per thocoand         10 Srac  should be acical protein; these etandarda are lo%,er than those
of old-year population; ten-yeoc acith-stic -vrIg-an sding in 1960 and          Of 75 g~ren, of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein ea an
19701 cod fi-o-y.r averge ..di.. in 1975 for out     Waet C.tWIVQta             avroga tar the world, propacad by PAO in the Third World PF-d lrS-y.
Crde lsth rare osr Ibousad. aver         A    I nna d.th. pa  thousn.ad Of old-  Per ..pit. protein aupply from animal amd pulse - Pr.taei supply of food
Year population; ten-yeer asrritlcti  -vrgecding In 1960 and 1970 and           derived from aciola end pulasa in grnsa per day.
,five-yacravarag    ending in 1975 for oust recen.t Dsiaa                       eath rate i/thou) aces 1-4 - Annual deaths per thoussand in age group
nfaci notolity rats f/thou) - Annual deaths of infat.t under one yaar of          1-4 years, to chi1dren in thin age group, suggested as 00 indicator of
age, Per thoseand live births.                                                   colnurritiao.
Life e-aectancy at birth ('oral - A-eraca -abar Of yeara of life reinaing
at birth; usoualy five-year average   ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for           c-ti"~o
developing countries.                                                          Adu tderollment ratio - prinary school - Enr-Iltnet of all agea as
Gr..a reproduc tion rate - Avrerge combat of live deughtera a woman will           percantafe of primary school-age populatiem, includaa children gagd
bear in her -aaaa  reproductive period if she experienc.es presen.t age-         6-li years but adjuated for different lengths of prim~ary education;
specific fertility ratee; "usully fiv-yea    averages ending in 196O,            far coutrime with universal cduc..siio, ..rol.out way e...eed 1007.
1970 and 1971 for developing csttriss.                                           eince sam  pupils Are bel1w or above the official   chtoal age.
Population growth Oslo (7. - total - ComPound annual growth ratea of old.        Adjusted enrollment retio -  -e-odary echool - Computed e above;
year populerion far 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                aecendary education, reqireu at least four years of approved primary
Population growth rate (7.) - urban - Compu.ted like growth rate of total          inatructbon; provides general, vocational or teo.her training
population; different definitions of urban eres cy affect Osaparo-               instructions for pupils Of 12 to 17 years of age, caroespudndenc
bility of data enog cottlstrc.                                                     -oree are generally -acluded.
Urban population, (7. Of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;            Years of schooling provided (firet and second levela) - Total years of
different definitions of urban areas coY affect comparability Of data            echeoling; at secondary level, vOostionel instruction   esy be par-
aenog countriea.                                                                 tially or completely excludad.
AAe structr.sr  (Percent) - Children (0-14 y.era), wokig-ag   (15-64 years),     Vocational enrollment (7. of aecondart) - Vocational institutiona
and retired (61 years and over) as percetages ofsid-y..r population.             iaclude tecIhneil, induatrial Or Other progrmsa which operate
Ace dependency ratio - Patio Of Population ceder IS and 65 and over to             indpeurdeaxly or as d.parntoat of secondary lostitutica..
thooc of ages 15 through 64.                                                   Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate adults (able to read and writ.) a
Etoonomc dependency cells - Ratio of population undar IS acd 65 sod over            percentage of total adult population aed 15 years amd over.
Pto the laborforc,e in. age group Of 15-64 yasra. 
cm'sil PIaa _n -     2apet"rs fuMulti'e. thou) - C,aiulative comber of           lous ingt
caccptors of birth-control devina wader auspices Of national family            Persona, par room, (urbne) - A-araga number of peanpronei
pleasing pragram  since inception,                                               occupied convectional &wellings In urbanes        delns      xld
Fitly pleasing - useru (I. of corried women) - P.erentages of nsrried              ano-parmowest atructusres end' unoaupidd pa.tI.
women of child-hearing age (15-44. years) who use birth-control devices        Occupied dwellings without piped water (7.) - Occupied covetional
to all corne.d wose,s In ea age group,                                           dwellings In urban end rural .a.ea  without inside Or outside piped
wa1,ter  clIittica apercentage ofall occupIed dwellinga.
Ttllabor forc (thousawnd) - Efronoi-aly ucti-e peraons, including               with electricity in living quarters em percen.t of statl dwellings In
sedforces and unemployed hst acluding houowivea, studa-t, etc.;               urban end rural aes
de finitions In various countries are not comparable.                          Rural duellings conneted to electricity (7.) - Computed as above for
Labor force in er~iculture (CZ) - Agricultural labor force (in faming,               rural dwellings only.
forestry, hunting end fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployd.(7. of l1abor force) - Paemplnyed are usually defined as peruon        Isosmptien
who  re  ble  nd  illing to take a Job, Out Of a job on a given day,       Radia receivers (par thou pop) - All types of reeivrer far radio broad-
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified jniiom period             casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes
a tfexceeding one week, coy cat he comparable between countries due tv            unlicensed receivers in countries end in years when registration of
different definitions, of uneployed and source Of data, e.g. , coploy-            radio seats usa in effect; data for recent years coy not ba cmparable
cent office statistics, sample survys, c_mpulaory unemployment insurance.         ainos n.at coutriss abolished licensing.
Px ...nper oars (per thou PIP) - Passenger cars tnapriae cotur cars
incco distribution  - Percentage at private income (bath in cash and kind)          ..sting less than eight persona; eclude.a mbulances * hearses end
received by richest 57., richest 207., poor-st 207., and poorest 407. of          cilitary vehicles.
households.                                                                     PEc,triciLZ (bob/yr Per cap) - Annual conesation hA industrial, co--
mercial, pbienprvte electricity in kilowatt hours per capita.
binlibuionof andow rahp -Percentages of 1ond owed by wealthiest            genrally based on produxtlse   data, withesst allowanc  fort loses in
117. end pooreet 117. of land owners,                                             grids but allowig (no inporta end ..parts of electricity.
NWasprint (ka/yr per cap) - Per capit.aennual consumaption, in kilograms
Heaalth and Nutrition                                                               saticated from domestic production plus net Imparts of nemptjnt.
Pnoulalt,o per physician - Population divided bly nunber of practicing
Physficisn qualified from, a medical school 01 univ-raity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS IN 1975/76                          Annual Rate of r.rowth (% constant prices)
US $ Mln.    %         1970/71 - 1973/74      1973/74 - 1975/76
GDP at Market Prices            1,151      100              4.0                    10.0
of which:
Agriculture                     512      45               0.0                     9.3
Industry                        118      10              14.0                     2.4
Services                        521      45               6.9                    12.8
GNP at Market Prices            1,608     100              n.a.                     n.a.
Gross Domestic Investment         260      16              n.a.                     n.a.
Gross National Savings            390      24              n.a.                     n.a.
Current Account Surplus           130       8              n.a.                     n.a.
Exports of Coods, NFS              88       6              n.a.                     n.a.
Imports of Goods, NFS             415      26              n.a.                     n.a.
Net FS Receipts                   457      28              n.a.                     n.a.
LABOR FORCE, 1975                 Thousand      Percent
Agriculture                         785           69
Industry                             86           7
Services                            201          18
Unemployed                           64            6
Total                           1,136          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR. MILLION)                     Actuals                    Budget
1972/73   1973/74    1974/75   1975/76      1976/77
Current Revenue                      199        277       381       565          781
Current Expenditure                  272        323       472       604          820
Current Deficit                      -73        -46       -91       -39          -39
Development Expenditure               58        139       185       340          600
Overall Deficit                     -131      -185       -276      -379         -639
External Financing                   117        238       536       609          788
(Grants)                          (59)     (109)      (389)     (380)        (468)
(Loans, net)                      (58)     (129)      (147)     (229)        (320)
Residual Items 1/                     14        -53      -260      -230         -149
MONEY,'CREDIT AND PRICES (YR. MILLION)
June 30
1972    1973     1974    1975    1976
Money Supply                       349     489      640     964   2,028
Credit to private sector           108      111     170     286     464
Net claims on Government           103      111      91    -134    -337
Net foreign assets                 546     609      700   1,180   2,605
Consumer price index (Sana'a)     Fiscal Years:   1973/74   1974/75    1975/76
(1972 = 100)                                      154       203       237
Annual percentage change                                      +32        +17
1/ Domestic financing, increase in Government deposits (-), errors and omissions



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1972/73   1973/74    1974/75   1975176
Exports,f.o.b.                           7        14         13        12
Imports, c.i.f.                        120       194        258       382
Trade Deficit                         -113      -180       -245      -370
NFS, net                               -11        19         30        43
FS, net 1/                             105       112        191       457
Current Account Balance                -19       -49        -24       130
Official M & LT capital, net            22         60       126       165
Cross disbursement                      26        63        130       168
(Grants)                           (14)      (31)       (93)     (114)
(Loans)                            (12)      (32)       (37)      (54)
Repayments                              -4        -3         -4
Others 2/                               16         23        -1        -9
Changes in reserves (-increase) 31     -19        -33      -101      -286
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1973/74-1975/76)4/
Average US$ Million!   Percent
Cotton                         6.5            56
Coffee                         1.4            12
Hides and skins                1.4            12
Cotton seeds                   0.4             3
Others                         2.0             17
TOTALS             11.7            100
EXTERNAL DEBI (Dec. 31 1976)                                         US$ Million
External public debt outstanding   (Dec. 31, 1976)                         519
of which:  disbursed                                                     276
Debt service payments - 1975/76                                              3.7
Ratio of debt service to total merchandise
exports in 1975/76                                                        33 percent
Ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and services (including
Workers' Remittances) -   1975/76                                          0.6 percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through February 1973: US$1 = YR5; YRI = US$0.20
Since February 1973:     US$1 = YR4.5; YRI t US$0.22 5/
1/  Mostly workers' remittances
2/ Including errors and omissions
3/ Net reserves of Central Bank; excluding balances with Central Bank of Egypt
4/ Recorded exports only
5/  No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IMF.    All exchange
transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has been pegged to the
US dollar since February 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1977 - US$ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                       (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower        Purpose               IDA      Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways                7.7         1.7
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture    21.2 /1      12.3
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Education              11.0         7.6
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply           6.3          3.1
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Industrial Estate       2.3         1.9
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development      10.0         9.8
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways                9.0         1.7
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply
and Sewerage         8.1          7.0
611      1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education               8.0         7.9
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Grain Storage and
Processing           5.2          5.1
662     1976    Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing       5.0          5.0
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
Sewerage            10.0         10.0
Total                                             103.8         73.1
Of which has been repaid                            -            -
Total now held by IDA                             103.8
Total undisbursed                                               73.1
/1   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1977)
IFC has made no investments in YAR.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000, equivalent, was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The Executive Directors approved on September 11,
1973 a second Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make possible the con-
tinuation of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund joined with
a grant of about US$300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund also joined with a grant of about US$425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; US$7.7 Million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effective-
ness Date: January 15, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Borrower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road
construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfac-
torily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the project
have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included in
the project has been delivered.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 Million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and US$10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end
of 1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed
specification drawings of all the required contracts. Nine contracts for
preliminary works including camps, access and field roads and extension
offices were awarded to local contractors. Six of them have already been
completed and one nearing completion. Three major contracts, one each for
the construction of diversion weir, canals and the regulating gates, were put
to international tendering and have since been awarded. Construction work
on the diversion weirs have started and is progressing satisfactorily. The
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was legally established towards the end of
1974. The Credit Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF have been
appointed. Measures to increase ACF's flexibility and its effectiveness
have been recently taken. The total cost of the Project is now estimated
at $40.8 million compared with $17.5 million at the time of initial
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
appraisal. At the Government's request the Association and the Kuwait Fund
agreed to provide supplemental financing. The Kuwait Fund approved in December
1975 a supplementary loan of KD 2.8 million and the Association approved on
March 30, 1976 a US$10.3 million supplementary credit for the project. The
reappraisal estimate of December 1978 for project completion is expected to be
met.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project encountered some initial delays due to difficulties
in recruiting qualified staff for the Project Unit and the UNDP/UNESCO Task
Force. All the principal posts in the Project Unit have, however, now been
filled. The delay of about eighteen months in project implementation is ex-
pected to be reduced significantly as a result of measures being taken to
expedite completion of designs and educational programs and the arrival of the
remaining experts of the UNESCO Task Force. Construction of practically all
project institutions started in August 1976 and the preparation of furniture
and equipment lists are well advanced. A proposed new structure for the
Ministry of Education has been prepared by the Task Force for consideration by
the Government. The new structure would include a directorate for primary
education and a directorate for technical and vocational training as required
under the current Credit Agreement. These arrangements are expected to be
implemented shortly by the Government. The Task Force is further working on
the preparation of programs and curricula to be adopted for the project
institutions. In the further development of the project, the Government and
the Association are placing increased emphasis on ensuring the availability
of a sufficient number of qualified instructors for all project institutions.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Water Supply Project; US$6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: June 10, 1978.
The execution of this project was originally delayed by the consul-
tants' slow progress in preparing the final design and tender documents. All
of the civil works contracts have now been placed and delivery of materials
has been completed. Initial poor performance of the local civil works con-
tractor has been significantly improved by his entering into a management
contract with an experienced British contracting firm (Lilley International).
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; US$2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date:- November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October
as scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal estimate
which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to the unex-
pected increase in building costs that has taken place since project appraisal.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
In the light of this cost increase and at the Government's request, the Asso-
ciation agreed to retain the highest priority items in the project. The
Development Credit Agreement was amended accordingly. Construction works
started in February 1976. The first of the three buildings is expected to
be ready around June 1977. Three entrepreneurs have already signed lease
agreements with the Industrial Estate Development Authority and some twenty
parties have showed interest in either renting factory space or developed plots.
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; US$10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encountered
management, staffing and organizational problems. Since the fall of 1976
progress has been encouraging. Project Management has improved and a number
of staff positions have been filled. Candidates for the 4 remaining vacant
positions out of a total of 19 are being interviewed and are expected to
assume their duties shortly. Agricultural extension, veterinary and credit
activities are progressing well despite lack of adequate housing and transpor-
tation for extensionists. Problems of cost escalation, labor shortage, port
congestion (Hodeidah), delay in supplying vehicles, and difficulties in
obtaining response from contractors for the village water supply and rural
roads components are hampering the project's implementation according to
schedule. A simplification in the local procurement procedures will help to
overcome some of these problems. The Ministry of Public Works has agreed to
implement the village water supply and rural roads components and thus would
speed up implementation.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; US$9.0 million of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the hlighway
Authority has until May 1978 to run.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida W4ater Supply and Sewerage Project; US$8.1 million
of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The contract has been awarded for the drilling of test and produc-
tion wells. Tenders have been awarded for the bulk supply of materials for
the water supply and sewerage components. Tender documents were completed
for the civil works and pipe installation contracts about three months later
than the date foreseen in the appraisal schedule. Consultants' cost esti-
mates based on these documents show that there would be an important financing
gap due in part to Government's instructions to the consultant to include
works outside the scope of the project but mainly to very high increases in
local construction costs. Government is reviewing the scope of work and the
project financing plan.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; US$8.0 million of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Physical implementation is proceeding saisfactorily; design develop-
ment is expected to be completed on schedule and construction of the Taiz
Vocational Center has been advanced by about one year. However, recruitment
of project experts is progressing relatively slowly. Efforts are being made
by the Government assisted by IDA to adequately staff the Project Unit in the
shortest time possible.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; US$5.2 million of
June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The expatriate project manager and his local counterpart, had been
appointed prior to negotiations. Contract negotiations with the engineering
firm Oscar Faber have been completed and the firm has commenced work on the
project. The sites for the silo, the Government bakeries and the warehouses
have been acquired and properly demarcated. A silo superintendent and an
accountant (both local) have been appointed and eight bakery extension agents
have also been selected for training starting January 1977. Applications of
other expatriate experts are being reviewed and steps to initiate the storage
study and nutrition survey are being currently undertaken. Project imple-
mentation is proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; US$5.0 million of
November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date:     May 20, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The Management consultants have arrived and set up office in Sana'a.
Consultants for site selection have also been selected.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$10.0
million of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The Credit was approved on December 21, 1976 and signed on January
14, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic
Beneficiary:         Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation (PMAC)
Amount:              US$6.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Onlending Terms:     The Borrower would onlend the entire proceeds to PMAC
through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement at an interest rate
of 9 percent per annum to be repaid over a period of 20
years including 5 years of grace.
Project
Description:        The project is designed to assist PMAC in expanding and
rehabilitating port facilities at Hodeidah and Mocha and
in strengthening its management and staff. The project
components are:
1. (a) The development and expansion of the port of
Hodeidah to include civil works for the
(i)  repair of existing berths;
(ii) construction of a new berth, a slipway
and jetties for harbor craft;
(iii) dredging of the harbor channel and
basin;
(iv) rehabilitation and improvement of the
oil terminal;
(v)  addition of new buildings and utilities.
(b)  The purchase of cargo-handling equipment and
floating craft.
2. (a)  Rehabilitation of Mocha as a lighterage port.
Civil works include:
(i) rehabilitation of, and refendering of the
pier face;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(ii) construction of new buildings and
utilities.
(b) The purchase of cargo-handling equipment and
navigational aids.
3. Technical assistance to PMAC comprising:
(a) engineering consultants for design and super-
vision of the project;
(b) technical experts to support PMAC management
in cargo handling, cost and management
accounting, administration and documentation,
dredging and slipway management; and
(c) professional training for selected PMAC staff.
Project Cost
and Financing:
Local  Foreign   Total              Financing
Component                                       Source          Amount   Percent
------------(cost in US$ million)-----------
1. Hodeidah
IDA               3.0      10.8
(a) Civil works       3.6      8.2    11.8  Other loan(s)    3.1       11.1
Govt. & PMAC      5.7      20.4
Other loan(s)     4.2       15.0
(b) Equipment         0.4      4.2     4.6  Govt. & PMAC     0.4        1.4
2. Mocha
(a) Civil works       0.2      0.5    0.7 tOther loan(s)     0.3        1.1
(a) Civl works 0.2  0.5     0.7 ~Gvt. & PMAC       0.4       1.4
(b) Equipment          -       0.3    0.3  Other loan(s)     0.3        1.1
3. Technical assistance 0.5       1.9     2.4  IDA               1.7       6.1
Other loan(s)     0.2       0.7
Govt. & PMAC      0.5        1.8
4. Contingencies         2.9      5.2     8.1  IDA               1.3       4.7
Other loan(s)     3.9       14.0
Govt. & PMAC      2.9       10.4
Total                 7.6     20.3    27.9                   27.9     100.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:                        ----------US$ Million ---------
Fiscal Year        1978     1979     1980     1981
Annual            0.52      2.40     2.71     0.37
Cumulative        0.52      2.92     5.63     6.00
Procurement         Civil work contracts to be financed under the credit will
Arrangements:      be awarded following international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. However, contracts for
civil works of US$50,000 equivalent or less, but in ag-
gregate not to exceed US$100,000 may be awarded following
domestic advertising in accordance with the Government's
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to
the Association. Bidding documents for civil works will
permit bidding either for the entire work or for separate
groups of items so that both domestic and international
contractors can participate. A 7-1/2 percent margin of
preference would be allowed to domestic civil works con-
tractors. Procurement of items financed from other co-
financing sources would be in accordance with their own
guidelines. Selection and appointment of consultants to
be financed under the credit will be in accordance with
IDA guidelines.
Technical           Consultants will be employed in accordance with Bank
Assistance:         procedures to assist in detailed design, bid preparation
and supervision of the project. Technical experts will
also be recruited to assist PMAC management in training
and daily operational activities (about 430 man-months).
Economic Rate
of Return:         41.7 percent.
Estimated
Completion Date:   March 31, 1981.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1463a-YAR dated May 5, 1977
Regional Projects Department, EMENA.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timebable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           2 years.
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           UNDP/Kuwait Fund/Association
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:          Early 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:   May 1976
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          September 30, 1976
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:              April 8, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           On about October 31, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
No special actions necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of effectiveness of the Developoment Credit are as follows:
(a) the ratification of the Project Agreement by all necessary governmental
and corporate action (paragraph 63);
(b) the execution and ratification of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Borrower and PMAC (paragraph 45);
(c) the signing of Loan Agreement(s) between the Borrower and other co-
financier(s) for an amount of US$12.0 million (paragraph 45);
(d) the completion of arrangements by the Borrower for the timely construc-
tion of berth No. 5 (paragraph 36);
(e) the appointment of consultants to assist in detailed designing and con-
struction supervision (paragraph 51); and
(f) the appointment of Chief Engineer to head the technical services depart-
ment of PMAC (paragraph 49).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
2.   Measures to be taken by PMAC include:
(a) to upgrade by June 30, 1978 the status of its finance division to that
of a department and ensure the recruitment of adequate and qualified
accountants (paragraph 53);
(b)  to establish and maintain by March 31, 1978 a suitably staffed statistical
unit within its cargo-handling department (paragraph 49);
(c) to introduce, maintain and periodically adjust tariffs in respect of its
ports operations to realize an annual rate of return (i) of not less than
9 percent in its fiscal years 1977 through 1980, (ii) of not less than 6
percent in its fiscal years 1981 through 1983, and (iii) of not less than
9 percent in its fiscal year 1984 and thereafter on the average net value
of its fixed assets in operation (paragraph 52);
(d) to revalue its fixed assets in operation not later than September 30, 1977
for its fiscal year 1976 and to thereafter revalue the said assets at not
more than 5 yearly internals in accordance with appropriate methods of
valuation (paragraph 54);
(e) to complete not later than December 31, 1981 in consultation with the
Association an appropriate study to determine the expected medium-term
investments, and the scope and form of long-term development, in the
ports sub-sector beyond the year 1985 (paragraph 36);
(f) to employ not later than December 31, 1977 a civil, a mechanical and an
electrical engineer and a marine surveyor with qualification satisfactory
to the association for the technical services department (paragraph 49);
(g) to employ not later than December 31, 1979 a qualified slipway expert and
three supporting staff to operate the slipway to be constructed under the
project and to train counterpart staff in slipway operation (paragraph 50).
3.   The measures to be taken by the Government include:
(a) not later than April 30, 1978, complete construction of berth No. 4 of the
Hodeidah port (paragraph 36);
(b) not later than June 30, 1979 complete construction of berth No. 5 of the
Hodeidah port (paragraph 36).



BRD 12564R
771.7 \ t mIFAA  '/,,ste         S A U D I  A R A BI A                  YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
, 17771 7owHRIR  IR\,hoh,aR                                  PORT    DEVELOPMENT         PROJECT
GENERAL LOCATION
7  11.I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.CE1M1
-       -                                                P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..ROJ ECT  HHS   011I -
o'501.1.717 ffi         9                                                  u~ OThER PORES
_   , jp   .f  O   0  g  8   (                        -_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY hDADS 7SDhH COITSIH7CEI7n
7)tF|)/\                                    __________   7OCTHR  ROADS
d                                     TTSoo-dA 0 ,70L CAPITAl.
0   CIE IE  701/O S A:5D  'ILIAGLS
0 0  \   )  <  >Z)   1  \   t   oEeTol  CONTOLRS IL 1,IETElS
C<) \ 0/ w} ~\ t (7                                             -   '- INIEhAT IONAL LOUNDAhlES
0    20  40   60   80   100
|   VR   ;h F^l- Y\X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o2~~~~S~~~~0)          48 ~~~~~~o    40-
E.I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROI  IC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ IE
2700 ~   ~
1 h~~~~~~~~~~~~~/9
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
era-
/ I        r P






EMEN A~2PA FEF'BUii
P.          Q\~~ (\~~'~U> .         PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LI                  ~~~~~~HODEIDAH PORT
Ar.  f,:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i I
t5m  '11117..~~~~~~~J.~4
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            ':: '3o:tLGa~
tic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C>  I  -  - -                 ii~~~~~Y.   p". j c '-
-\ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~A
~~  'gJ  '~~~~IIL~~~~~  -  -,






IBRD 12566R
APRIL 1977
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MOCHA PORT
-4. n                                                \ Proposed Port Facilities
t   Area Being Dredged by PMAC (1976-77),
Not Part of IDA Project
iW  /////: Proposed Port Areo to be Paved
< Existing Port Facilities
,-$ 4OmX     >                                  -4 5m  Water Depth in Meters, Below MLWST
i-",AREA ToBE',                                    t       Roads
-40m,      -/2,0p                                                         , 49E0  , 6E0     80
!-,- ', -wFE
S 'N C,T
/ P-'-'TRAF',-','-! _ / ',s'', ......... 1 0 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    150  2  10     240l
<   ; W      S                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
HARBOR MASTERS OFFICE                                                  4 184m l        18-
CUSTOMS OFFICE                                                                 SOUd AOb; O
RANI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
T16R             YEMEN
REPLACED   CUSTOMS                                                   , Z          .-
SHED                                                                        e   P- IO
'           44 u         46
TAx



