CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 510 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1974


﻿므


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1974, between ISLAMIC RUPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter called the Borrower), acting by its President, and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS by Development Credit Agreements respectively dated Marcli 6,
1969 and May 22, 1970, as amended to the date hereof, between the Borrower
and the Association, the Association granted to the Borrower development credits
for the telecornmunication projects therein respectively referred to;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested that the Association Should assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter cilki ofthe foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions liereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreenici ts o    t1l
Association, dated Marcli 15, 1974, witli the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being liereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the Context Otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   First Development Credit Agreement means the Development Credit
Aureernent dated March 6, 1969 between the Borrower and the Association;


﻿4
(b)   Second Development Credit Agreement means the Development Credit
Agreement dated May 22, 1970 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(c) "T & T" means the Telegraph and Telephone Department of the
Ministry of Communications of the Borrower, and includes any other department,
agency or entity which shall perform in whole or in part the telecommunications
services theretofore performed by such Department.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty six million dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Boirower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the prinzipal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 1
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August 1 commencing
February 1, 1985, and ending August 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1994, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2


﻿5
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to T & T to assist in the financing of the cost of the Project in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and on such other terms
and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by T & T to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurcment schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additijns thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause T & T to. (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project, (ii) enable the Association's acciedited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine


﻿6
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and for the
construction and operation of the facilities included therein.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause T & T at all times to manage its
affairs and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate engineering,
financial and public utility practices, under suitably qualified and experienced
management, with the assistance of competent staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower by not later than September 30, 1974 shall
submit to the Association for its review the detailed program for the reorganization
of T & T provided for under Part IV of Schedule 2 to the First Development
Credit Agreement and, subject to such review, shall initiate the action required
to implement such program by not later than December 31, 1974.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause T & T, until completion of the Project, to limit its employment of
new staff to the extent required to reduce the ratio of staff employed by T &
T to the number of telephones in service at a rate of not less than four per cent
(4%) per annum.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times cause T & T to operate and
maintain its plant, equipment and property, and to make promptly all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to maintain records which
will enable commercial-type, accrual-basis financial statements to be prepared
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of T & T.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause T & T to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related


﻿7
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of T & T and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to establish, and thereafter
maintain, telecommunication tariffs which shall provide to T & T operating income
sufficient to produce, in respect of its financial year ending June 30, 1975, and
of each subsequent financial year, an annual return on the value of net fixed assets
in operation of T & T of not less than 10%, or such other percentage as may
be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section and of Section 4.07 hereof:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by using as the
denominator the value of net fixed assets in operation of T &
T at the beginning, and at the end of the financial year in
question, and dividing the total by two, and, as the numerator,
an amount equal to the operating income of T & T for that
year.
(ii)        The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation of T & T"
means the gross value of fixed assets in operation of T & T
as revalued from time to time, based on appropriate valuation
methods approved by the Association, less accumulated
straight-line depreciation.
(iii)       The term   "operating income" means the difference between
operating revenues and operating expenses.
(iv)        The term   "operating revenues" means all revenues from T &
T's telecommunication operations and other revenues incidental
thereto.
it
(v)         The term "operating expenses means all costs of operation by
T & T of its telecommunication facilities, including overhead
costs, maintenance expenses, taxes, if any, and adequate


﻿8
provision for straight-line depreciation, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any long-term   debt for the purpose of financing the
operations or investments of T & T nor permit T & T to incur any long term
debt, unless T & T's net revenues for the preceding financial year or for any later
twelve-month period, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding financial year on all debt
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section and of Section 4.08 hereof:
(i)         The term "long term debt" means all indebtedness which will
mature by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(ii)        The term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and delivery
of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt or for the refinancing of such debt.
(iii)       The term "net revenues" means operating revenues, adjusted to
take account of T & T's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during
the financial year or twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, less all costs of operation by T & T of its
telecommunication    facilities,  including  overhead   costs,
maintenance expenses and taxes, if any, but excluding provisions
covering depreciation and debt service requirements.
(v)         The term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt.
(vi)        Whenever for the purpose of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is


﻿9
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
Section 4.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that all long-term debt hereafter incurred by the Borrower for the
purpose of financing the operations or investments of T & T shall be re-lent by
the Borrower to T & T, and serviced by T & T, on the terms and conditions
relating to such re-lending specified in Memorandum No. 1(1) EA(CRO)/63 and
Annexure "A" thereto of the Government of Pakistan, as amended to the date
hereof.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall promptly pay to the account of T & T's
revenues, on a current basis, all charges incurred by the Borrower or by any of
its departments, agencies or instrumentalities in respect of telecommunication
services furnished thereto by T & T.
Section 4.10. Prior to the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that no major expansion of telecommunication facilities (other than the
carrying out of the investment program of T & T as from time to time agreed
between the Borrower and the Association) shall be undertaken without prior
consultation and agreement with the Association. The term "major expansion"
shall mean any expansion which would result in estimated capital expenditure
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 in any fiscal year.
Section 4.11. The Borrower and the Association agree that as from the date
hereof, the provisions of Sections 4.06, 4.08, 4.12 and 4.13 of the First
Development Agreement and of Sections 4.06, 4.07, 4.11 and 4.12 of the Second
Development Agreement shall be deleted.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Section 5.02
of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any, specified
for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account or (ii) declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the
charges thereon.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the Borrower


﻿10
or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action (whether
under the program referred to in Section 4.02 hereof or otherwise) for the
dissolution or disestablishment of T & T or otherwise materially affecting the
powers or responsibilities of T & T, without the prior agreement of the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date December 11, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.0 1. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad


﻿*                                 11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By    / s /  A.M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
for and on behalf of the Presideni
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By / s / Mervyn L. Weiner


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sc ts forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   (a)   Local net-                13,200,000    )
work cables                             )
and accessories                         )
(b)   Long distance             6,800,000    )
cable and radio                         )    100% of foreign
systems and open-                       )    expenditures
wire line mate-                         )
rials                                   )
(c)   Power and air-            2,000,000    )
conditioning                           )
equipment                               )
II.   (a)  Local switching           6,700,000     )
equipment                               )
(50,000 line                            )
units), long                            )
distance switching                      )    50% (representing
equipment and tele-                     )    the estimated
phones                                  )    foreign exchange
)     component)
(b)   Carrier multiplex         1,200,000    )
equipment, includ-                      )
ing subscriber                          )
carrier equipment                       )
III.  Unallocated                    6,100,000
TOTAL         36,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if, in the case of Category 1I, such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises part of the telecommunications phase of the
Borrower's Five-Year Development Plans and provides for the modernization and
expansion of T & T's local and long distance telecommunications facilities. The
Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    Expansion of Local and Long Distance Telephone Exchanges
1.   The installation of switching equipment, cables and telephones
for 75,000 direct exchange lines.
2.   The installation of dialing equipment extensions for 1,200 long
distance circuits and of manual switchboard positions.
Part B:    Expansion of Long Distance Routes
1.   The provision of approximately 250 trunk circuits to connect
telephone exchanges by open-wire lines, and by HF, VHF and
UHF radio systems.
2.   The installation of a microwave radio system from Sukkur to
Quetta.
3.   The installation of a microwave radio system from Hyderabad
to Badin.
4.   The installation of a microwave radio system from Karachi to
Manora.
5.   The installation of a co-axial cable and/or microwave radio
system from Sahiwal to Bahawalnagar.
6.   The installation of a carrier cable system from Khanewal to
Multan.
7.   The installation of additional repeater equipment for the
microwave radio system from Karachi to Rawalpindi to provide
additional flood protection.


﻿15
Part C:    The Existing 1969-1974 Program
The installation of cables and open-wire lines and of air conditioning
units to complete the carrying out by T & T of its 1969-1974 program
provided for under the First and Second Development Credit Agreements.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    The provisions of Part A.1 hereof shall not apply to:
(i)        negotiated  purchase   of standardized  equipment for the
Karachi-Rawalpindi microwave system to be financed under
Category l(b) of the table set forth in Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement; or
(ii)        negotiated purchase on the basis of governmental procurement
procedures of all equipment to be financed under Category II
of such table.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause T & T to furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall cause T & T to
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, cause T & T to inform the Association
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the
reasons for the intended award and to furnish to the Association, in sufficient


﻿17
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall cause T
& T to furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
On-lending of the Credit
1.   (a)   The Borrower will make available to T & T the proceeds of the Credit
comprising an amount in various currencies equivalent to $36,000,000
(hereinafter called the Loan).
(b)   The Director General of T & T, or such person or persons as he shall
appoint in writing, will be authorized to make application to the
Association for withdrawal of the amounts which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw under the Credit Agreement in respect of the
reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the Project.
(c)   Upon each withdrawal under the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount equal to and in the currency or currencies of the amount
so withdrawn will be credited to and withdrawn from a Loan Account
to be opened in the books of the Borrower in the name of T & T.
2.   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose of this Agreement to determine
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value will be reasonably
determined by the Borrower.
3.   T & T will pay to the Borrower interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate of 8-1/4%
per annum in the currency of the Borrower.
4.   (a)   T & T will be entitled on behalf of the Borrower to request the
Association to enter into special commitments in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions.
(b)   T & T will reimburse the Borrower in full in respect of all amounts
which the Borrower may be obligated to pay to the Association on
account of charges for such special commitments pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions.
5.   Interest and other charges will be paid on June 30 in each year.
6.   Save as the Borrower, T & T and the Association may otherwise agree:


﻿19
(a)  T & T will repay the principal amount of the Loan by 20 equal
consecutive annual payments, the first such payment to be made on
June 30, 1978; and
(b)   the principal amount of each installment of the Loan repayable by
T & T will be the pro-rata equivalent in the currency of the Borrower
(determined as of the date of repayment of such installment of the
Loan) of the aggregate value of the currency or currencies of the Credit
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account and on-lent to
T & T in accordance with the provisions hereof.
7.   T & T will have the right at any time to make prepayment of the principal
amount of the Loan without payment of premium.
8.   The on-lending arrangements herein provided for will contain provisions
entitling the Borrower to suspend, cancel or accelerate the Loan in the event
that the Credit should be respectively suspended, cancelled or accelerated
in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the or,rI in the archives of the International
Deve!n mnt Asccrtin.
In <t      w   of I have slilrd this Certificate
and affixed the Seal of the Aesciattrn thereunto this
*    -      day of       . A     , 197k
FOR SECRETARY


