                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 31986

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (PPFB-P3530 TF-29400 SCL-44490)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION

                            TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF

                                        JORDAN

                                         FOR A

                            HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                     March 31, 2005




Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 6, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
                           JD 1 = US$ 1.41
                      US$ 1.00 = JD 0.71

                        FISCAL YEAR
                           July 1- June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



     CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
     DQCL      Drug Quality and Control Laboratory
     EIA       Early Implementation Assessment
     HSRP      Health Sector Reform Project
     ICR       Implementation Completion Report
     JFDA      Jordan Food and Drug Administration
     JPD       Joint Procurement Directorate
     JUH       Jordan University Hospital
     KHMC      King Hussein Medical Center
     MIS       Management and Information System
     MOH       Ministry of Health
     MTR       Mid-term Review
     NDITIC    National Drug Toxicology Information Center
     NDP       National Drug Policy
     PDO       Project Development Objective
     PIU       Project Implementation Unit
     PMU       Project Management Unit
     QAG       Quality Assurance Grouip
     RDU       Rational Drug Use
     RMS       Royal Medical Services
     SC        Steering Committee




                 Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
              Country Director      Joseph P. Saba
               Sector Manager       Akiko Maeda
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jean-Jacques Frere

                                           JORDAN
                               HEALTH SECTOR REFORM


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P039749                                                  Project Name: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Team Leader: Jean Jacques Frere                                      TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 19, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                                     L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P3530; TF-29400;
                                                                                                     SCL-44490
   Country/Department: JORDAN                                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (97%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/12/1997                                     Effective: 04/21/1999                07/14/1999
     Appraisal: 09/10/1997                                         MTR: 08/31/2002                  06/04/2002
      Approval: 03/25/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV/MINISTRY OF HEALTH/ROYAL MEDICAL SERVICES (RMS);
                                           JORDAN UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (JUH)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Inder Sud
Sector Manager:                 Akiko Maeda                                    George Schieber
Team Leader at ICR:             Jean-Jacques Frere                             E. Gail Richardson
ICR Primary Author:             Francisca Ayodeji Akala


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original project development objective (PDO) was to increase the efficiency, quality and long-term
financial sustainability of health services in Jordan. This project was prepared based on the findings of a
health sector study conducted jointly by the World Bank and the Government of Jordan in 1996. The
findings evaluated the country's health sector as performing well in terms of access and health outcomes
but less so in terms of costs and efficiency. The study noted that health spending at the time was estimated
at 7.9% of GDP which was well in excess of most countries of the region, middle income countries in
general and some western industrialized countries.            Based on the findings, the study provided
recommendations for reforms designed to improve the performance of the financing, human and physical
infrastructure bases of public programs, while assuring effective coordination with the substantial delivery
and technological capacity of the private sector.

The project broadly supported the two key objectives of the 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
which were to: (i) establish the enabling environment for sustainable growth through targeted interventions
for improved efficiency and effectiveness; and (ii) address human resource constraints by improving health
services to reduce loss of productivity due to morbidity. Based on the study findings and CAS objectives,
the PDO was clear, relevant to the health sector needs and responsive to the country's circumstances and
development priorities. However, the health sector study also noted that implementing an effective reform
had some requirements that were not necessarily fully in place in Jordan at the time of project preparation.
These included as the establishment of a permanent national body composed of representatives of all public
programs, the private sector and other stakeholders with a dedicated staff, budget and responsibility to
develop, evaluate and implement sector wide health reform initiatives. The study also indicated the need for
a longer-term strategy that could be implemented incrementally.                 Based on these findings, the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) finds the PDO complex, ambitious and substantially risky for a
number of reasons, including: (i) the broad range and depth of policy issues to be addressed (efficiency,
quality and financial sustainability) with each issue being complex to address; and (ii) the fragmentation of
the public health sector with three major public sector providers that are independent of each other in terms
of their management and organization would be a difficult context within which to implement a reform
process, most especially one requiring the involvement and coordination of multiple institutions.

A "modest risk" rating of the project was assessed during preparation, although a number of substantial
risks were also determined, including changes in government leadership and priorities, private sector
resistance to pharmaceutical reform, weak capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to implement, and
resistance of MOH, Royal Medical Services (RMS) and Jordan University Hospital (JUH) to coordinate
programs. Minimizing measures were proposed including establishing a project management unit (PMU),
but the ICR finds that the measures would have required very intensive and continuous supervision
throughout the project life cycle in order to effectively mitigate the identified risks.

3.2 Revised Objective:
During the project mid-term review (MTR) mission in June 2002, Government agreed to the task team's
recommendation to revise the PDO to based on the assessment of the task team and PMU/project
implementation units (PIUs) that the project's design was ambitious in light of the existing capacity and
commitment. At the time, while the hard components were making progress, the main reform activities were
either being implemented with major delays or had not commenced at all. Despite receiving endorsement
to downgrade the project and its monitoring indicators at the end of MTR mission, Government later
officially informed the Bank of its renewed commitment to the reform process and agreed to a number of
key issues and actions to ensure achievement of the PDO. While refusing to revise the PDO as



                                                      - 2 -

recommended by the Bank, Government did agree to revise the monitoring indicators of the project.

The PDO was formally amended on September 22, 2003 as a condition for the Bank's approval of a
one-year extension of the project closing date. The amended PDO is "to increase efficiency and quality of
the health services in Jordan" and the Loan Agreement was amended accordingly.                   The financial
sustainability aspect of the original PDO was dropped mainly because the major component to support the
achievement of this goal had not made any progress at all during the four years of project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
This project was designed to be the first phase of a longer-term reform process and was to support three
key areas of containing growth in health expenditures; assuring efficient utilization of physical facilities;
and improving the delivery and quality of health care services. The second phase of the reform was
expected to further target equity, quality and cost effectiveness of health care services.           The five
components of this project to support the first phase of the reform process were:

(1) Rationalizing Jordan health delivery system (US$25.77 million (component costs are the original total
IBRD figures including contingencies)): At the time of project design, decisions on facility construction and
rehabilitation were neither systematically based on demographic and epidemiological characteristics of the
country nor on available resources. There were also no standards and norms applied in the construction of
facilities to ensure efficiency in the allocation of space and relative proximity of services. To support
project preparation, an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) Grant financed the development of a
comprehensive health facility masterplan that would incorporate norms and standards, overall needs,
existing public and private sector capacity and identify and prioritize all facility health investment needs
Based on the results of the masterplan, this project component would finance the top-most priority public
sector and equipment investment needs which would account for about one-third of all public sector needs.
This component was also planned to support training to upgrade clinical and other skills of health personnel
in the public sector.

(2) Developing and implementing health information systems (US$2.90 million): This component was
designed to support the development of: (i) a national information system to provide Government with
relevant and timely epidemiological data; and (ii) management information systems for patient records,
services, inventory and personnel in the three public institutions for improved service quality and efficiency
at facility level. This component would finance equipment, technical assistance, software development or
purchase, and staff training needed for the information systems.

(3) Improving hospital financing and management (US$0.64 million): This component was expected to
support the development of a financing system for hospital and physician payments to support the efficient
use of resources in public hospitals. Included under this were: (i) establishing clear accounting standards
that would apply to all public health facilities; (ii) setting up hospital-based financial management systems;
and (iii) adopting modern approaches to pay hospitals (such as case-mix adjusted global budget and
various physician incentive arrangements) at the RMS hospitals and the JUH. This component was
expected also to finance the development of management tools, equipment and staff training that would be
required to implement the systems.

(4) Reforming the pharmaceutical sector (US$5.44 million): In order to improve the quality and efficiency
of the pharmaceutical sector (which accounted for over a quarter of all health spending in the country), this
component was designed to support a series of reforms, including: (i) promoting generic substitutions; (ii)
implementing treatment protocols and training in the rational use of drugs; (iii) adopting essential drug
lists; (iv) improving overall sector management and pricing policies; and (v) reforming the processes for



                                                        - 3 -

drug procurement, storage, distribution and quality control. The component was also expected to finance
rehabilitation of the quality control laboratory, equipment (laboratory and computer), technical assistance,
studies, workshops, and materials development.

(5) Continuing the reform process (US$0.26 million): In addition to supporting effective implementation of
the project by establishing a PMU and three PIUs, this component would strengthen the Higher Health
Council (HHC) and establish a secretariat that would support the continued preparation, evaluation and
monitoring of the sector reform program. The PMU in collaboration with the project's steering committee
and the HHC, was expected to commission studies and recruit technical expertise to explore alternative
reform                                                                                              proposals.

3.4 Revised Components:
As the original closing date of the project approached and it became clear that a number of key activities
were still outstanding and that the PDO would not be achieved on time, Government agreed to a formal
amendment of the project Loan Agreement in order to receive approval for a closing date extension. The
revision included dropping Component 3 (Improving Hospital Financing and Management); reallocating the
funds for this component to Components 1 and 2; and revising the monitoring and evaluation indicators.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
In 1998, the Bank's Qualtity Assurance Group (QAG) rated the project's quality at entry as "fully
satisfactory" based on the following: (i) the solid sector work that facilitated both in-depth policy dialogue
with Government and project preparation; and (ii) excellent staff continuity which ensured that the same
team on the sector study was involved throughout the project preparation. The QAG Panel felt that the use
of sector work in building broader dialogue on key issues is "best practice" that should be disseminated.
Within this overall positive picture however, the QAG Panel felt that the project was complex and
sophisticated and was concerned about the readiness of the project for implementation.                     The
implementation arrangements were felt to be problematic and requiring particularly vigorous and advanced
detailed planning on the Government and Bank side to try and minimize the inevitable problems. The Panel
went as far as to recommend that the Bank either post a full time staff to Jordan or allocate an above
average supervision budget for the first two years of the project. The Panel also noted the relative lack of
private sector focus in the project components despite the acknowledgement of the growing relevance of the
sector and ongoing dialogue with the sector. The Panel therefore recommended including in the fifth
component a useful characterization of the private sector as a groundwork for future sector reform that
fully integrates the private sector. Finally the Panel was of the opinion that although labelled a "sector
reform", it was actually a "sector investment" project with investments chosen to facilitate reform, and
therefore recommended changing the project name to reflect the content and coverage in order to prevent
unrealistic expectations.

While agreeing with QAG's assessment of the importance of sound sector work to the project design, the
ICR is of the opinion that much more could have been done to prepare this project for implementation.
Although tremendous effort went into prescribing the ideal goals for the sector which led to the complex
project design, much less effort was made to assess what could realistically be achieved in the country
based on available capacity and commitment. An ongoing health project (Health Management Project, LN
3574A) that was experiencing implementation delays largely due to capacity and bureaucratic issues should
also have signaled a red flag and influenced the risk rating on the potential for implementation delays in this
more complex operation that was being planned. The ICR also finds that although the intention was for this
project to be the first phase of a longer-term program, the design attempted to address too many complex
issues at once without the setting of benchmarks to stage the implementation. With the benefit of hindsight
and if the ICR rating scale allowed for it, the ICR would rate the quality-at-entry as "partially satisfactory"



                                                     - 4 -

instead of " fully satisfactory"

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR assesses the overall achievement of the original objective and outcome as satisfactory.
Considering the complexity of the project, the initial slow implementation progress, the frequent key staff
changes on both Government and Bank teams, and the inadequate monitoring and evaluation framework,
the satisfactory achievement of key project outputs (in four out of the five initial components) has
contributed to partially achieving the expected outcome of improving key aspects of efficiency and quality
of health services in Jordan.         The less than satisfactory achievement of the long-term financial
sustainability objective due to the non-implementation of the planned activities to improve hospital
financing and management (Component 3) is the one major shortcoming. However, as discussed later,
achievements in the other components will contribute to improving the financial sustainability of the health
services and which therefore justifies the overall satisfactory rating of the PDO achievement. The ICR
acknowledges that the satisfactory rating can be argued to be too subjective because of the lack of
sufficient indicators to more objectively measure outcomes of the project. To address this shortcoming,
results of additional surveys (mainly of managers, staff and patients) were conducted and the results were
used to make a subjective assessment of the improvements in the efficiency and quality of services. Some
additional quantitative data collected beyond the project indicators can be found in Annex 1.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Rationalizing Jordan's Health Delivery System

Satisfactory
All the civil works, planned under this component, were largely completed satisfactorily. A few (like the
rehabilitation of Al-Bashir Hospital, the Drugs Quality and Control Laboratory (DQCL) and the JUH
emergency department and stores) were completed shortly before the closing date of the project, making it
difficult to realistically assess any improvements in efficiency and quality of health services currently. For
others (like the Maan Hospital expansion; the new medical laboratory and the three rehabilitated RMS
hospitals; and JUH rehabilitation) which are currently operational, there is evidence from staff and patient
surveys that the civil works and the new equipment have improved efficiency and quality of services being
provided. For instance, at the new RMS laboratory, most tests now require much less time to carry out
resulting in more efficient diagnostic skills, reduction of patient waiting times, increased number of patients
attended to each day, and reduced hospital length of stay which are all efficiency measures. In addition, the
laboratory, which carries out about four million tests annually, including more advanced tests that was
previously done, is now a national referral center. The project also financed an assessment and the
rehabilitation of the medical waste management system of the Al-Bashir Hospital (the largest hospital in
Amman). The two new regional MOH stores constructed under the project are not functioning optimally
due to lack of staff. The project financed the training of staff in various areas, including technical
specialization (medical, nursing, procurement), management and other reform related courses. Nine MOH
Engineers were also trained in biomedical engineering. The response from the staff surveys on training
were mixed. While the majority felt that the training received has enhanced their skills for their current
jobs, other questioned the relevance of the training for their jobs.

Component 2: Developing Health Information Systems

Satisfactory
The achievement of this component has been satisfactory with the project financing hardware, software,



                                                      - 5 -

and training, as well as the technical assistance by experts to oversee the implementation in the three
institutions. All RMS departments within the King Hussein Medical Center (KHMC) in Amman (including
two hospitals, the laboratory and the administrative and finance departments) are now connected via a wide
area network system and can access patient and hospital data directly on-line. In the second phase, the plan
is to link other RMS hospitals in the country to the same system. The new system in KHMC (currently the
largest hospital information system in Jordan) is expected to substantially improve services at the RMS,
both in terms of health service delivery, as well as improved financial and resource management. The
implementation of the system within the RMS has been highly satisfactory and can be used as a best
practice example to be adopted by other hospital systems in the country and the region.

At the JUH, all departments have been computerized and accessing data has been simplified, as part of the
Phase I system installation. Surveys carried out at the JUH indicated cost savings for pharmaceuticals,
consumables and medical supplies as prescriptions and usage are being better monitored with the
information system. The JUH Administration is now also able to generate reports (daily, weekly, monthly
or annually) easily which are being used for analysis, planning and projections. Eventually, the medical
director feels that the system will be able to generate unit costs for managing specific cases which will be
beneficial for planning purposes. Phase II (currently in the final stages of installation) builds on Phase I by
deploying more modern technologies, and with more integrated links among the departments, as well as the
outpatient units and clinics. This will further lead to improved efficiency and effectiveness of operations.
An archiving system at the JUH financed by the project has the potential to improve efficiency and reduce
the use of paper files once all the old records have been scanned.

The previous World Bank-financed health project had a major MIS component for the MOH that was
cancelled due to lack of progress and lack of a strategic plan for information system development, and the
plan was to finance it under this project once a comprehensive action plan was prepared. However, this did
not take place and resulted in the ad hoc and modest achievements of MIS activities in the MOH when
compared to those of the RMS and the JUH which had better coordination and more institutional support
from their management. Despite the modest achievements, the project has upgraded within the MOH the
Computer Literacy Center, supported the automation of the Health Insurance, Personnel and Financial
Management Departments as well as the Jordan Food and Drug Administration (JFDA) (formerly the
Directorate of Drugs). Within the JFDA, the automation has contributed to reducing the drug registration
processing time from up to 180 days in the past to no more than 90 days currently. In addition, the
archiving system will allow for more efficient data management once all documents related to drug
registration have been scanned. The Health Insurance Department is now producing electronic cards for
participants of the scheme, therefore improving the efficiency of the system. The Personnel and Finance
Departments are now connected by a network which links the payroll and human resource functions and
makes processing more efficient.

The ICR notes that while the project was not able to achieve the ambitious goal of developing a national
information system, it has put in place the foundation for achieving this in the future by automating the
three major public institutions in the country. In addition to financing the information systems, the project
financed the substantial professional development for staff of the three institutions on the use of
information systems (over 250 staff trained at MOH, 250 at RMS, and 350 at JUH). In the long run, with
appropriate institutional setup and support, the achievement of this component will contribute to the project
objective.

Component 3: Improving Hospital Financing and Management

Unsatisfactory


                                                     - 6 -

The ICR notes that the achievement of this component output is unsatisfactory when compared to the
planned objectives and output, particularly as the component was dropped when the Loan Agreement was
amended due to lack of implementation progress. The ICR notes, however, that the finance departments of
the three institutions have been automated, thereby improving the information management capacity
(equipment, software) in the area of hospital finance. Staff of the three institutions were also trained on
finance and accounting which will facilitate unification of standards and systems in the future.

Component 4: Reforming the Pharmaceutical Sector

Satisfactory
The ICR acknowledges that while this component involved a challenging set of activities to achieve reform,
the implementation team made impressive progress. The Drug Quality and Control Laboratory (DQCL)
was satisfactorily constructed and equipment purchased, albeit just before the project closing date, making
it difficult to objectively measure the medium-to long-term effects on improving efficiency and quality.
Staff of the DQCL and the Drug Directorate were also trained on various technical courses.

A series of workshops were conducted and financed by the project. A Joint Procurement Directorate (JPD)
was established (with a regulating bylaw), furnished, equipped and automated under the project. The JPD
has a board headed by the Prime Minister and a committee created (with membership from the major public
institutions) that is currently putting together regulations to operationalize the directorate. Another
committee is also working to unify drug specifications and codes across the various agencies and already a
list of 30 drugs (to cost about 10 million JDs) to be procured jointly for all the institutions in 2005 has been
decided. The JPD is also collaborating with the JFDA to adopt an essential drug list and drug formulary
and guidelines. The joint procurement of drugs will facilitate coordination across the main public
institutions and will contribute to the cost containment objective of the project. The project also financed
the creation of a Joint National Drug Toxicology Information Center (NDITIC) to be used by the three
institutions. A temporary office is housed in the JUH and was equipped and automated by the project.

A National Drug Policy (NDP) was developed and launched just before the project became effective.
During the project life, the NDP, which was designed to improve availability of drugs, assure quality and
improve efficiency of the pharmaceutical sector, was adopted and supporting legislation passed. An
advisory committee with specialists from the public, private and academic sector was formed to advise
Government and the private sector on issues related to the implementation of the NDP. The project
financed the printing and distribution of the NDP and the implementation of a series of dissemination
workshops. The project also financed a series of studies to provide the evidence base for the reform of the
pharmaceutical sector and some of the study results are already in use by the MOH. For example, the
reorganization of the Drug Directorate has already taken place and an independent Food and Drug
Administration has been established with a mandate for policy formulation, implementation, quality control
and monitoring of activities in the food and drug sector. The list of studies conducted can be found in
Annex 1. For each of the studies, technical committees were established and reviewed the results with a
view towards implementation. A series of workshops were conducted as a follow-up to the findings of the
studies. In addition, a Rational Drug Use (RDU) Unit has been established by the JFDA in collaboration
with WHO and this unit will be responsible for implementing the essential drug list, national formulary and
development of treatment guidelines. Legislation was enacted and some laws and regulations amended to
support the pharmaceutical reform efforts. In all, five laws, one bylaw and four criteria and regulations
related to this component were enacted during the project life. See full list in Annex 1.

Component 5: Continuing the Reform Process




                                                     - 7 -

Satisfactory
The output achieved under this component was partially satisfactory. The main reform activities under this
component did not commence until towards the end of the project life largely due to the lack of commitment
and the late reactivation of the HHC and establishment of the secretariat. Once the HHC Secretariat was
established, consultants were recruited and work commenced on developing a national health strategy, a
national nutrition policy and a non-communicable disease control policy.            The secretariat organized
workshops on several topics and established working relations with other donors like WHO and USAID. A
Health Economics Directorate was created within the MOH and its staff were trained by the World Bank
and other donors. The directorate includes the National Health Accounts unit which, with the support of
various donors, has been a valuable source of data for the health sector.By the end of the project, the HHC
was without a secretary-general (although support staff are present) which puts into question the future of
the secretariat. However, the MOH, in addition to the pharmaceutical reform, has taken the lead and
initiated a number of other reform efforts, including expanding health insurance coverage for the populace,
hospital accreditation process, quality of care and manpower development. The MOH has been successful
in expanding insurance coverage to an additional 530,000 people including children under six, retirees,
uninsured dependants of civil service staff, daily wage workers and the poor.

Two hospital management specialists were recruited to evaluate the managerial and financial procedures of
the new JD 50 million King Abdullah University Hospital which was financed by the Arab Fund and
Islamic Development Bank. The operational running cost is currently too high to be maintained by
Government and is generating very little income. A consultant's report, including recommendations, was
submitted to Government.

A restructuring of MOH was proposed and included the creation of two offices of Secretary General (one
each for financial and administrative affairs and technical affairs) rather than the post of a director general.
The structure has been approved but full implementation has been delayed as only one secretary general
has been appointed. The other major sub-component which was to support project implementation was
satisfactory and included staffing, training and equipping of the implementation units.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest

The ICR rates the institutional development impact of the project as Modest. While the impact was
substantial for the RMS and JUH, it was less so for the MOH which is the key stakeholder within the
sector. Within the three institutions, facilities were upgraded and staff were provided training in both
technical and management areas enabling them to better carry out their duties. The new equipment has
improved hospital and management performance while biomedical staff recived training on equipment
maintenance. The institutional capacity to improve hospital waste management has been improved in Al
Bashir, with a plan to replicate the system in other MOH hospitals. Management information systems were
developed at the three institutions and are already in use and improving the management of resources and
efficiency of various services. Within the MOH, the upgrading of the information technology training
center has improved the quality and efficiency of training, with the center now training about 250 staff each
year on information technology and computing basics. In addition, the training for staff of the Directorate



                                                     - 8 -

of Information, Research and Studies of the MOH, have provided the skills needed to design software
applications being used in the department, to install the networking for the Insurance Directorate and the
JFDA, and to update and maintain the MOH website. The establishment of a special tendering unit at the
MOH has helped to reduce the complex and bureaucratic tendering process. The simplified procedures
being used by the unit have led to a 25 to 50% time savings of the tendering process. With this success, the
scope of work of the unit has already been expanded to include tenders for other projects.

Legislation to support pharmaceutical reform efforts have already been adopted, making reform more
feasible and sustainable. Joint procurement by the three institutions will improve coordination and resource
management. The results of the pharmaceutical studies financed by the project will also contribute to
improving resource management. The JFDA is autonomous and has a Board of Directors which includes
the Minister of Health. Similarly the JPA has a Board of Directors headed by the Prime Minister. The
JFDA has signed various agreements with internationally recognized institutions like the US FDA,
Australian Health Insurance Commission, Australian Food Safety Authority and the New Zealand Food
Safety Authority. The creation of the Rational Drug Use Unit by the JFDA will ensure better use of
pharmaceutical resources within the country. The establishment of various technical committees to provide
implementation oversight and monitor various aspects of the pharmaceutical reform (like the joint
procurement and the national drug policy) will ensure coordination and strengthening of the three
institutions. The Laboratory of the RMS is now a national referral center with internationally recognized
certification. The reactivation of the HHC and the establishment of a secretariat (along with a bylaw to
sustain it) by the project has had a significant institutional development impact, as a mechanism is now in
place to continue to explore reform options within the sector. The secretariat can better play a donor
coordination role in the area of reform issues and has a work program              in place with the WHO
(Macroeconomics of Health) and USAID (Partnership for Health Reform Program). One caveat for the
secretariat to play its role effectively is that Government must ensure that an experienced secretary-general
is always on board.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Bank performance in terms of designing a complex project and implementation arrangements without
carrying out an institutional capacity assessment negatively affected the project and led to implementation
delays. The complexity of the project required closer supervision and more regular technical assistance
that was not always provided by the Bank. A faulty procurement clearance by the Bank also delayed the
start-up of the HMIS installation at the RMS and was one of the major reasons for the project extension.

The slower than expected performance of some project contractors also led to implementation delays,
especially for the construction of facilities. In the case of the RMS HMIS Contract, the consultants hired to
carry out a feasibility study defaulted mid-way through contract implementation, causing further delays.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in meeting effectiveness and board approval conditions (staffing of PIU, PMU, completing
masterplan, establishing Technical Secretariat of HHC and the Steering Committee (SC) led to
implementation delays right from the project preparation period. Added to this were the frequent changes in
the ministers of health (10 Ministers from project identification to closing date), limiting the level and
continuity of dialogue and commitment and slowing down implementation. This also affected the
composition of the HHC and the SC which for a long period did not hold regular meetings and therefore
jeopardized the project oversight role the two bodies were expected to play, particularly for the
software/reform components that the PMU/PIUs are less familiar with. By MTR, no secretary-general to



                                                       - 9 -

HHC had been appointed to serve as coordinator and ensure continuity, particularly with the rapid changes
in membership of the HHC and SC.                Bureaucratic delays in government clearance processes for
procurement that involved other ministries beyond the MOH (like the Government Tenders Department of
the Ministry of Public Works and Housing and the General Supplies Department of the Ministry of
Finance) delayed implementation. As an example, finalizing the bidding documents for the rehabilitation of
Al-Bashir Hospital required 10 months of negotiation between Government and the Bank to use the Bank's
standard bidding documents (despite agreement by Government during loan negotiations).


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PMU and PIUs worked hard to implement the project despite the less than optimal oversight by the SC
and HHC. This is evidenced by the progress in the hardware components of the project moving at a much
faster phase than the software/reform components that needed more technical skills and senior management
decisions. Opportunities existed to recruit a health specialist within the PMU to provide the needed
technical assistance but difficulties in identifying suitable candidates were encountered. Although each PIU
performed extremely well in its individual tasks, coordination amongst the PIUs was not optimal and this
could probably be explained by the lack of coordination and collaboration at the level of the heads of three
institutions. Each PIU could have benefitted from more professional interaction and sharing of experiences
amongst themselves, which was one of the goals that the project design concept was trying to achieve
during appraisal.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost at the time of ICR is US$47.43 million (IBRD:US$35 million, Government:
US$12.43 million) compared with the PAD estimate of US$48.88 million (IBRD:US$35 million,
Government: US$13.87 million). Cost details by components can be found in Annex 2.             Exchange rate
issues were not encountered, as allowance for this was already made in the implementation plans.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely

The ICR rates the sustainability of the project's achievements as likely for a number of reasons. All
equipment (including computer hardware and software) financed by the project are covered by extended
warranty (two to three years in most cases) and in addition, the project financed the training of MOH
biomedical engineers who are in charge of equipment maintenance. There is institutional commitment
within the three institutions to sustain information systems benefits as evidenced by the assignment of
committees or departments that are already ensuring the ongoing implementation and integration of the
systems with day-to-day activities. While staff were trained under the project, only the RMS and to some
extent the JUH have plans and budget in place for ongoing staff training. The MOH training plan is
usually implemented according to available budget on an annual basis. While the MOH has access to
donor funds for maintaining staff training, more importantly there needs to be a formal process for trainee
selection and ensuring that trained staff are assigned to appropriate posts where their newly acquired skills
can be best utilized.

Within the pharmaceutical sector, various committees have been set up to oversee the progress of various
activities being implemented by the JPD and JFDA, both of which have boards headed by high-ranking
officials (Prime Minister and Minister of Health). Legislation and bylaws to support the pharmaceutical
reform are in place, with committees putting together operating guidelines. The JPD has been established



                                                      - 10 -

by a bylaw and a Director General and other staff have been appointed. A budget for the first year of
activities has been approved for managing the directorate and jointly procuring JD 10 million worth of
drugs in the first year. A list of 30 drugs to be procured this year is already in place. The HHC has a
functioning (equipped and staffed) secretariat with a work program although the has been without a
secretary-general for the last six months which could jeopardize effective implementation of the work
program.

The MOH has technical assistance from other donors (e.g. USAID, WHO) to continue the reform efforts,
particularly in the areas of health insurance, hospital accreditation and pharmaceutical reform that were
identified under the project as well as in the areas of Public-Private Partnership, HIV/AIDS and smoking
which were not. More specifically, the MOH/JFDA in collaboration with PHRPlus has already conducted
seminars on hospital accreditation, rational drug use and Essential Drug List and Treatment Protocol which
are part of an ongoing technical assistance program. The RMS and JUH have already elaborated plans for
the subsequent phases of the hospital information management systems put in place by the project and are
soliciting the Bank's continued support on this. The Government's commitment to sustain the reform
process is also evidenced by the request of the MOP for ongoing bank support in the sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The majority of the activities financed under the project have already been integrated into the regular
operations of the various institutions, in particular, equipment maintenance, health information systems and
drug quality control. All newly constructed or rehabilitated facilities have been handed over from the
contractors through the Ministry of Public Works for MOH facilities and special committees for the RMS
and JUH. For the Al-Bashir Hospital, the project financed only the first phase (Paediatrics and Obstetric
and Gynaecology departments) of a three-phase rehabilitation plan, and already work on the subsequent
phases has commenced with financing from the Government and the Saudi Arabia Development Fund. In
addition, staff of the PMU and PIU received training on project management, including procurement and
financial management which they found very useful. The majority of the PMU/PIU staff were staff of the
three institutions and their retention indicates that the public health sector of the country now has staff that
can manage projects in the areas of procurement, financial management, auditing and information system
management. The PMU Director, who was a consultant, has been retained by the MOH to manage phases
2 and 3 of the rehabilitation of the Al-Bashir Hospital. The secretariat of the HHC already has a work plan
that includes studying referral practices in Jordan and designing an efficient referral system; identifying
mechanisms for better coordination among the health sector providers; cost-containment strategies (such as
medical technology and drug rationalization); promoting health system and services research; and reviewing
medical malpractice regulations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory

While the Bank did an excellent job basing the project concept on the sound economic and sector work
carried out collaboratively with Government, it did a poor job on the project design which was too complex
for the existing capacity of the MOH to implement. Although weak implementation capacity of the MOH
was identified as a substantial risk by the task team during project preparation, no detailed institutional
capacity assessment was carried out. Therefore, the project design was based more on the ideal than on
what could realistically be achieved. In addition, the Bank team had the advantage of learning from the
experience of an ongoing Bank project in the same sector (Health Management Project) which was
experiencing delays as a result of capacity issues and Government bureaucracy. These same issues led to


                                                      - 11 -

the delays in meeting the conditions for Board approval and effectiveness of this project. The complex
design and capacity issues eventually contributed to implementation delays that ultimately resulted in
project extension. Most of QAG's quality-at-entry assessment recommendations that were so critical to
ensuring project implementation success, were not incorporated in the project design. In addition, not
enough attention was paid to designing a realistic monitoring and evaluation system.

The ICR, however, notes that Bank task Team made great efforts to work around delays in meeting the
conditions and to this effect, project preparation progressed well in advance of effectiveness (e.g., project
launch took place before effectiveness; construction of RMS Laboratory progressed and an agreement was
reached to retroactively finance once project was effective; tenders for MIS and facility rehabilitation at
JUH reviewed and ready for implementation; and the National Drug Policy drafted and launched). Another
positive effort by the task team during project preparation is the partnership sought with other key donors
like USAID, WHO and the Swiss and Danish Governments, already supporting or interested in government
reform efforts.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory

Task team continuity was maintained during the preparation and early phase of implementation but
subsequently there were changes in task team leadership and other team members in the last four years of
the project supervision. Supervision budgets did not increase as advised by QAG during the quality at entry
assessments and the number of missions per year reduced to only one a year from 2000 to mid-2003 due to
budget constraints. Aside from the staff changes, composition of team in terms of skills and experience did
not always match the specific needs of this complex project due to budget constraints. In comparison, task
team composition during implementation was not always as strong as during preparation phase in terms of
available technical skills.

Despite these shortcomings and limitations, the task team proactively and consistently made commendable
efforts to ensure successful implementation by proposing various measures to support Government efforts.
Some of these measure include (i) establishment of MIS & Hospital Finance & Management Task forces to
jumpstart implementation; (ii) recruitment of technical assistance specialists (MIS, Health, Financial
Management) within the PMU;         (iii) preparation of guidelines to serve as implementation tools and
facilitate understanding; (iv) preparation of procurement flow charts by PIUs (the one done by JUH
indicated that between 248 and 494 days were required for the tendering of equipment and civil works,
respectively) to serve as a discussion tool to identify options for streamlining bureaucratic hurdles to
Government procedures; (v) undertaking an Early Implementation Assessment (EIA) with Sector Manager
prior to the MTR mission to raise concerns on project implementation; (vi) advancing the MTR as an
opportunity to address concerns earlier on in the implementation cycle; (vii) advocating for project
restructuring after the MTR; (viii) proposing a health forum during the MTR in the country where all
stakeholders could review the reform process and make necessary changes to make the project more
responsive to country need and context; (ix) mounting pressure to reactivate the HHC and establish a
secretariat; making efforts to bring the MOF on board to implement Component 3 when it had stalled; (x)
encouraging coordination among the three PIUs and their respective agencies; and (xi) requesting and
undergoing a Quality Enhancement Review process within the Bank. While many of the efforts translated
to improvements in project implementation, most of the measures required closer monitoring and support
that was not possible without a country office presence or with the limited supervision budgets. The task
team also made efforts to ensure complementarity of project activities with those financed by other donors
to the country, particularly USAID and WHO.




                                                    - 12 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Unsatisfactory

The ICR acknowledges that Government collaborated effectively with the Bank in carrying out the Health
Sector Review that formed the basis of the project and published the review findings as a red cover
document which has a much wider dissemination.            Subsequently, however, and partly due to frequent
MOH changes, there were delays in meeting board presentation and effectiveness conditions which affected
the initial momentum that had been reached during project appraisal. Board presentation took place almost
a year after negotiations due to various delays. A project management director was not appointed until
after effectiveness and the establishment of the secretariat of the HHC never materialized during the
preparation period as planned. These delays, as expected, had spill-over effects on the early implementation
period.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory

Implementation of project activities at the RMS and JUH progressed relatively well with minor delays
largely out of their control. The two institutions were committed to the project as evidenced by the
appointment of managers and the timely provision of counterpart funds. For the MOH, the lack of strong
central leadership (due to frequent changes in ministers, at least 10 during project life) for global reform
affected the early implementation phase of the project. While the MOP tried to maintain the commitment
and momentum, it was too far removed from the technical details of implementation for the efforts to be
more successful. (For example, despite the advice by the Bank to revise objectives and formally restructure
the project during the MTR due to slow implementation and lack of commitment, MOP estimated that 90%
of all project components would be completed by the original closing date (Dec. 31, 2003), yet 18 months
later, a request for a one year project extension was made by Government because a number of key
activities had not been completely implemented). While progress was made more rapidly under the RMS
and JUH components where there was more stable leadership, for those activities that required coordination
or joint implementation by the three institutions, the changes in leadership also affected their
implementation. Another area that was lacking was in the collection of M&E indicators, despite pressure
from the Bank supervision teams. It is not clear if the concept and importance of project monitoring was
fully comprehended by the Government team.

However, during the latter half of the project, it is evident that much more effort was made by Government
to demonstrate commitment to reform which also translated to achievements during this phase which have
already been noted earlier in this ICR. However, it is important to note that had this commitment been
maintained throughout the project life, much more could have been achieved under the project particularly
by the MOH. The consistent availability of experienced counterparts within the Drug Directorate
throughout the project cycle contributed to the achievements despite the changes in top management of the
MOH.       The creation of the JFDA was also instrumental to achievements under this component.
Commitment on the part of the JFDA leadership is also evident in the follow-up activities planned by
Government.


7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                      - 13 -

Satisfactory

Staffing of the implementation units (PMU and PIUs) of the project was delayed early on during project
preparation, but the team composition was largely maintained during implementation with a few
exceptions. This was vital for implementation progress in light of the number of MOH changes and less
frequent changes to the heads of the RMS and JUH. The expected support of the implementing units by the
Steering Committee was not always optimal and this delayed implementation progress. Despite this, the
performance of the PMU/PIU staff has been very satisfactory and instrumental to the achievements made
by the project. Progress reports, accounts and audits were carried out in an objective and timely manner
and the staff were very responsive to and collaborated effectively with the Bank supervision teams
throughout the project life. Having a PIU for each of the three public institution was essential for the
achievement of project objectives, since implementation, tendering and procurement rules and procedures
varied amongst the institutions. The less than optimal coordination and sharing of lessons and experiences
amongst the PIUs (largely due to project management design weaknesses and institutional issues) and the
weakness in project M&E preclude a highly satisfactory rating.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned


1. An institutional capacity assessment of this project would have identified key constraints which could
    have been used to strengthen project design (and make it less complex) and identified more realistic
    outcome indicators to more objectively measure achievements. While the project development objective
    is relevant to the sector needs identified in the Health Sector Study, the expectation that the project
    could achieve such broadly defined goals (efficiency, quality and long-term financial sustainability)
    without being clear as to what aspects of each were being targeted for achievement under the project
    was unrealistic. The achievement of the objectives as defined can in reality only be achieved in a
    longer time scale and with higher level inputs than was available within the project framework.
2. The Bank should be more realistic in what can actually be achieved within a single investment
    operation. In the absence of country-based Bank staff and with limited supervision budget, complex
    activities that require more intensive supervision should not have been included in the project design.
    For future operations, since the resource envelope will be much clearer with the proposed multi-year
    budget planning, more effort should be placed on designing projects that can be realistically
    implemented within resource and local capacity constraints. In addition more attention should to be
    paid to continuity of staff team as well as ensuring a more balanced skills mix based on project needs
    and requirements.
3. As with previous projects, once monitoring indicators have been agreed to during project preparation,
    resources should be dedicated to collecting all baseline data. If the data are not available before
    negotiations, then it should be clear that they are either not easy to collect or the capacity to collect is
    not available in the country. In this case, it would be highly unlikely that they will ever be collected on
    time during project implementation to make a realistic assessment of project achievement by comparing
    with end of project data. As the Bank becomes more results-oriented, resources for instituting M&E
    systems for projects need to be budgeted for right from the design stage and throughout
    implementation.
4. It is important to assess Government commitment to reform initiatives based on clear commitment from
    both the MOP as well as the sectoral ministry responsible for implementation (in this case the MOH)
    and not solely from the MOP. For this project, it appears that the rating of Government commitment



                                                     - 14 -

    towards sector reform was primarily based on commitment by the MOP. In addition, for activities such
    as those under the canceled component 3, which require unifying financial and accounting systems of
    three institutions governed by different rules and regulation, up-front commitment as well as the
    required amended regulations should be requested during project preparation.
5. For activities that require ongoing financial and other resources after the project closes, dialogue on
    sustainability arrangements need to be held and agreements incorporated in the project appraisal
    document during preparation. While the ICR assesses that the sustainability of project achievements is
    likely, in reality this can only be actually ascertained two to three years after the project closes to
    determine if and how achievements are being sustained. Likewise, the ICR recommends that resources
    be planned towards conducting an evaluation mission in two to three years time to get a more realistic
    assessment of the project's achievement. A number of project activities crucial to improving efficiency
    and quality of health services in Jordan were completed just before project closure and have not been
    operational long enough to accurately measure their effectiveness.
6. Closer attention should have been paid to implementing the QAG quality-at-entry (QAE) assessment
    recommendations of this project which were crucial to implementation success. In the future and
    especially as the Bank moves towards a results-based approach to project implementation, some
    thoughts should be given to investing in a formal system for ensuring the implementation of all
    recommendations that have been mutually accepted and officially documented by QAG after the QAE
    assessment.    In addition to this, a system of clear accountability for implementation should be
    developed and instituted.
7. In relation to the previous recommendation and for all projects in general, QAE assessments should be
    more dynamic rather than being mainly treated as a standard Bank requirement. It is therefore
    recommended that a formal process be instituted to follow up projects one year after QAE assessments
    to review if and how well recommendations crucial to the successful implementation of the project have
    been incorporated during early implementation. While this recommendation obviously has resource
    implications, waiting till the ICR stage to find out if QAE assessments have been beneficial or if
    recommendations have been adhered to defeats the purpose of having the assessments in the first place.
8. In terms of future support of the health sector in Jordan, the Bank needs to be more selective in the
    areas it chooses to support, focusing on activities where the Bank has a comparative advantage, rather
    than attempt to achieve a system-wide reform in one project.      A more programmatic approach that
    combines the appropriate mix of technical assistance, capacity building with investments (in areas
    where there is an obvious need) should be the goal for future Bank operations. The Bank can provide
    support that complements Government's investments from other sources in order to obtain better
    outcomes, for example, by providing technical and policy advice on rationalization of investments and
    other means for improving efficiency.        The challenge for the Bank will be on how to optimize
    resources to raise Government awareness to the importance of improving the efficiency of the current
    health system which performs well in relative terms but is not financially sustainable in the long-term.
    Selection of appropriate Bank instruments to achieve these should be another key consideration.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Executive Summary Of Government's Evaluation Report
Health sector reform project (HSRP) started in July 1999 and was completed by end of December 2004
after one amendment and one year of extension. Originally, the project aimed at increasing the efficiency,
quality, and long-term financial sustainability of health sector in Jordan. The amended project aimed at
enhancing the quality of public health services in Jordan and improving the overall efficiency of the health
sector" through (i) upgrading the physical infrastructure of public health care facilities, (ii) training human
resources, (iii) enhancing the management information systems, (iv) initiating reforms of the



                                                    - 15 -

pharmaceutical sector, and (v) strengthening institutional capacity to undertake health sector reform
initiatives. HSRP was organized in 5 components: (i) Rationalizing health delivery system by improving of
physical infrastructure, provision of equipment and training, (ii) developing and implementing Health
Information Systems in MoH, JUH, RMS and JFDA, (iii) improving hospital financing and management,
(iv) reforming the pharmaceutical sector, and (v) continue the reform process. The amendment resulted in
cancellation of the third component.           This implementation completion report incorporated: (i)
documentation of the degree of achievement of project objectives by component, (ii) defining major factors
that affected the design, implementation and outcome of project activities, and (iii) evaluating the
Government and WB performances with special emphasis on lessons learned.

Methodology
Evaluation team applied rapid appraisal approach and elements of the participatory approach with key
informants utilizing document review, discussion, direct observation and mini surveys. Evaluation utilized
six rating categories for meeting major objectives namely; highly satisfactory, satisfactory, partially
satisfactory, partially unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory and highly unsatisfactory. Sustainability was rated as
highly likely, likely, unlikely, highly unlikely, or not possible to evaluate. Only improving quality of
services and overall efficiency were evaluated with regard to developmental objectives. The performance
monitoring and evaluation indicators (see 1.4) are mainly output with some process, few outcome and no
impact indicators. Absence of impact indicators and lack of operational definition and data collection
methods for the only two outcome indicators made evaluation of the degree of meeting developmental
objectives mainly subjective. The interviewed individuals were from a variety of backgrounds with different
educational and professional experience and with varied involvement in project activities. This diversity in
background allowed for a broad range of opinions and views to be considered.

Results
Component 1- Rationalizing Health Delivery System (US$ 35.9 million)
This component aims to upgrade the health delivery system capacity of the Jordanian health sector. It
provided financing for physical expansion and rehabilitation of selected public health sector facilities, as
well as acquisition of new medical equipment. The component also supports training to upgrade the
technical capacity of MoH staff.

Component 1-Improving physical infrastructure
Overall performance for rehabilitation was considered satisfactory. Implementation objectives were largely
met where all the eleven planned construction and rehabilitation works under this component were
accomplished successfully. Despite that the expansion and upgrading of the emergency department at JUH
is still under construction, the 1,200,000 JDs WB loan share was completed. The rest of the construction at
about 600,000 JDs is currently taking place with JUH funds. All facilities are currently fully operational
but Al-Bashir hospital, emergency department of JUH due to factors beyond the scope of this project and
Ma'an drug stores due to delays related to the MoH. Developmental objectives were partially met where
improvement of quality of services was evident in the rehabilitated facilities. Improved efficiency was also
attributed to construction works in different locations especially construction of RMS medical lab and
renovation of Ma'an and RMS hospitals. The turnaround time for RMS medical lab was reduced from an
average of 8 hours to 21 minutes (96%) for standalone tests, from 24 hours to 6 hours (75%) for routine
tests and from 6 weeks to 72 hours (93%) for specialized tests.

Component 1-Provison of Equipment
Equipment was provided only to MoH and JUH. The main recipient of equipment was MoH with 21 out of
22 contracts signed, awarded and all pieces of equipment delivered to the central warehouse. One contract
for dental units was not awarded by the Central Tendering Committee and was cancelled. Alternate funding


                                                     - 16 -

for dental units was secured. Equipment purchase has been completed over a 2 year period from December
2002 to December 2004. Equipment related to five contracts was received during the last 2 months of the
lifetime of the project indicating considerable delays. A rough estimate of about 80% of the equipment
delivered, accepted, reached the intended beneficiaries at MoH hospitals and is functional. The rest is
waiting for the final stages of approval. As for JUH, 6 contracts out 6 planned were signed and all pieces of
equipment delivered and functioning but the Microscope for ENT operating theater which waits
installation.

Overall performance in provision of equipment was rated as partially satisfactory. The presence of 20%
of the intended to MoH equipment in the stores is difficult to justify. Implementation objectives were met
with some delays. Improved quality of services provided to Jordanian citizens related to provision of
equipment was obvious in most of the visited locations. The equipment has also contributed to the overall
efficiency of the health system through savings in time and resources.

Component 1-Training
Overall 232 staff members from MoH, RMS and JUH attended local short term courses related to
management, accounting and finance at the Center for Consultation Technical Services and Studies at
Jordan University. Three staff members from MoH attended a 9 month program in financial management
and got diplomas. Thirteen staff members from MoH, RMS and JUH attended short term training courses
on project management, accounting and procurement in Italy. Health economics course was attended by 12
staff members from the three institutions in Egypt. Eight senior staff members attended 8 week workshop at
American University of Beirut heath care financing and program sustainability. Twenty biomedical
engineers were trained in England and Malaysia for 8-11 weeks. Sixty nurses from MoH attended local
courses on ICU, dialysis, and neonatal care. Each course was attended by 20 nurses and lasted for six
months. Twenty MoH staff trained on community medicine including management and health economics
for 10 months. IT including ICDL training and pharmacy training will be tackled in the relevant sections of
respective components. Evaluation team found it extremely difficult to navigate through fragmented
training lists provided by different sources. Both the project management and the directorate of human
resources lack a comprehensive database that can retrieve decent reports.

Overall performance for this part was evaluated as partially satisfactory. Implementation objectives were
largely met as almost all local and overseas planned training courses were completed, yet with some delays.
Developmental objectives seem to be only partially met. Generally, long term local training and overseas
training provided some evidence of contributing to increasing quality of services and overall efficiency. The
short term local training courses on finance, accounting and management were considered of low value by
the majority of trainees especially regarding applying the acquired skills to their work environment.

Component 2- Developing and Implementing Health Information Systems (US$ 3.3 million)
The main objectives of developing national health information systems were: (i) provide the Government
with the relevant and timely epidemiological data; and (ii) integrate the management information systems
for patient record, services, inventory and personnel for the exchange of information among MoH, RMS
and JUH.

Component 2- Institutional Information Systems (MoH, JUH, RMS, JFDA)
Hardware installation and networking were completed in all involved institutions with few exceptions. The
planned health information systems were designed, pilot tested and implemented in all sites but the
directorates of finance & accounting and stores & supplies of MoH that are still under development.
Building MISs was delayed for all institutions with the majority just set into operation.




                                                    - 17 -

The weak performance monitoring plan was the prime factor leading to failure in getting values for the
outcome indicator of percentage of savings in JUH drug dispensing. Despite that JUH Director General,
PIU manager and other managers and staff members reiterated the fact of savings in time and resources for
drug dispensing, nobody could provide a number or lead to a source from where the number can be
obtained.

MIS Training was largely completed with technical support staff trained on different topics such as
servers' operating systems, databases, networking and web applications locally and overseas in MoH and
RMS. Training of support staff at JUH has been delayed due to involvement in installation of the new
system. Despite that training of users took place on mass scale for the three institutions, good proportion of
trainees complained of the weakness of training. The latter issue is more related to introduction of new
technologies that need time to practice and short term training will not satisfy the user. A total of 350 users
were trained at JUH, 284 users and support staff at RMS, 93 support staff at MoH. Number MoH/JFDA
users trained were estimated at about 200 including related ICDL training.

Overall, the performance for this part of the component was considered only partially satisfactory. The
implementation objectives were largely met with delays as a common trait. This part is expected (not yet) to
meet developmental objectives in improving quality and efficiency of the overall health system that will be
evident only after matured implementation. Based on interviews from managers and users the developed
systems look promising.

Component 2-National Health Information System
The overall performance for this part was rated as unsatisfactory. Developing a national data warehouse,
national standards and a responsive national epidemiological database was largely unaccomplished and
remain on the wish list. Building MIS systems was delayed for all institutions and they are just starting
implementing the developed systems. The weak IT culture in the country as a whole might have played a
role in the delay. The standards for each system were prepared by different members; different committees
and different contractors. Although the application systems developed at different institution with similar
functions are seemingly different, they are expected to communicate with each other easily according to
PMU manager experience with the local IS consultant. The reports sections of many of the newly
developed software are blank as far as the databases still need to be populated with data. Thus the
provision of timely epidemiological data still needs maturation to be evaluated. This fact does not exclude
the presence of other management information systems not necessarily computerized that provide useful
and regular data to the government.

Component 3- Improving Hospital Financing and Management (US$ 0.4 million)
This component aimed at: (i) establishing clear and consistent accounting standards for the MoH, RMS and
JUH; (ii) developing and implementing financial management systems for use in public hospitals; and (iii)
adopting modern approaches to pay hospitals in RMS and JUH hospitals. The overall performance in this
component was highly unsatisfactory. The only activity that was implemented under this component was
training of 232 accountants and that was described under component 1. Failure of progress of activities
under this component had been observed during the first 3 years of project implementation. The component
was cancelled in August 2003 upon a request from the Steering Committee and approval of the WB
mission. Consequently, the project was amended and the development objectives were rephrased to fit the
amendment. The funds were reallocated to components 1 and 4.

Component 4- Reforming the Pharmaceutical Sector (US$ 7.4 million)
This component aims at improving quality and efficiency of the pharmaceutical sector through: (i) adopting
a National Drug Policy as the legal frame work of the reform in the sector; (ii) promoting generic


                                                    - 18 -

substitution; (iii) implementing treatment protocols and training in the rational use of drugs; (iv) adopting
essential drug lists; (v) improving overall sector management and pricing policies; and reforming the
process of drug procurement, storage, distribution and quality control.

Overall performance of the pharmaceutical reform component was only partially satisfactory. A total of 5
laws, one bylaw and 4 criteria and regulations related to pharmaceutical reform were enacted and effective.
Restructuring the Directorate of Drug and Quality Control Lab at MoH and the creation of the JFDA as an
independent entity was the most important successful achievement followed by the creation of the Joint
Procurement Directorate. The restructuring took place mainly over the last year of the project which limited
major achievements affecting developmental objectives of the reform. The 11 pharmaceutical policy studies
were successfully completed by November of 2004. They provided situation analysis and recommendations
that laid the ground for future reforms. A new drug pricing policy was developed replacing the 1981 policy
and was recently implemented and is expected to save over 5 million JDs annually and to stabilize the drug
market. Drug registration that is now bound to a time limit of 180 days has drastically reduced the long list
of pending applications.

Construction of the new DQCL building was completed, while furnishing and equipping the lab need about
4-6 months to be completed. National Drug Policy, National Drug Formulary and Essential Drug list were
printed and distributed to health facilities in the country without a clear dissemination plan to promote the
products. The available data on therapeutic guidelines pointed to fragmented efforts with few guidelines
developed and used but not effectively monitored. The limited success observed in the National Drug Policy
and other related issues of essential drug list, national drug formulary, rational drug use, treatment
guidelines and generic substitution of drugs was partly due to considerable delays in implementing the
policy studies. A total of 101 staff members were trained locally and overseas on various topics. Technical
Training of DQCL staff was evaluated as inadequate while training of other staff members at the Drug
Directorate was considered only partially successful. The Director General of JFDA admitted that training
was not planned well as far as it took place amid the transition period.

Component 5- Continuing the Reform Process (US$ 1.3 million)
This component aims at supporting the continued preparation, evaluation, and monitoring of health sector
reform program. This component was also proposed to support effective implementation of project
activities through assisting PMU and PIUs to carry out project implementation and monitoring functions.
The overall performance of this component was rated as partially satisfactory. The project management
brought the majority of project activities to an acceptable end. However, it failed to work with government
partners to identify enough health initiatives for reform. Failure was partly attributed to inadequate staff
skills mix with absence of policy advisors and weak Government commitment to reform process. Hospital
Accreditation is one of most important initiatives currently gaining momentum. The main goals of hospital
accreditation are (i) establish a hospital accreditation organization infrastructure and (ii) prepare Jordan
hospital facilities for accreditation. Preparatory efforts are currently undertaken with five international
consultants assisting in different aspects. Hospital accreditation through the proposed Jordanian
Commission of Hospital Accreditation is expected to start functioning during the second quarter of 2006.
Establishment of the Special Tendering Unit at the MoH is considered as worth mentioning reform. The
unit was established in August 2003 to process tenders pertaining to Prince Hamza Hospital and the
Economic Transformation project. The more simplified procedures of preparing; tendering and awarding
bids have led to time savings in the range of 25-50%. This efficient approach could not have happened with
the regular tendering procedures.

Currently they are planned efforts to develop and update EDL and JNDF during the period 2005-2006. It



                                                     - 19 -

is expected that by May 2006 the guidelines for adoption of JNDF and EDL be ready to be implemented in
the public sector. Reforms in the field of Health Insurance and Pharmaceutical Sector that already
adopted were acceptable and expected to positively impact health sector performance. High Health
Council, the institution chosen by the WB to receive most of the support failed to show the promised plans
getting realized. Most of the planned activities to support reforms remain on the desired list. Apart from the
pharmaceutical policy studies mentioned, no other major studies were carried out to identify alternative
reform proposals.

Implementation Issues and Lessons Learned

Major Factors Affected Implementation
l The high level management did not have enough commitment to reform initiatives in the health sector.
l Lengthy bureaucratic tendering and delivery and acceptance procedures contributed to much of the
    encountered delays.
l Poor performance of contractors was one of the factors contributing to delays in construction. The
    Ministry of Public Works and Housing gave contractors legal protection for the delays by approving
    extensions of contracts.
l The PMU and the 3 PIUs were instrumental to bringing the majority of activities to a satisfactory end.
    Nevertheless, the lack of the proper staff skills mix contributed to delays in implementing some project
    activities. Absence of specialists on monitoring and evaluation and training was noted. Furthermore,
    MoH PIU was not delegated enough authorities to carry out activities.
l Absence of a well designed performance management plan made true monitoring and evaluation
    extremely difficult.
l Correspondence with WB regarding approvals of bidding documents and awarding the bids was
    relatively slow. Communication of the WB with beneficiaries was acceptable but not devoid of
    irregularities.
l Inadequate supervision and changing WB missions negatively affected implementation. Nevertheless,
    the positive response of the Bank to the request of the SC of amending the loan agreement and
    approving a crucial one year extension was highly appreciated by all parties involved.
l Legislation related issues are generally of slow progress. Changing and enacting laws, legislations and
    policies that supports reform takes time. Nevertheless, achievements in the pharmaceutical sector are
    promising.
l Leaving the High Health Council with no leadership for the last five months brought the majority of
    planned activities and reform initiatives to almost a standstill.

Performance of the WB
Overall Bank performance was considered partially satisfactory.
l The first stages of project cycle of identification, preparation and appraisal took sufficient time and
    ended up negotiating a reasonable set of activities with small implementation risks. Nevertheless,
    irrespective of over 40 years of experience with Jordan's situation, the Bank did not foresee the
    difficulties and risks that encountered the implementation of a more or less risky component three.
l The Bank did not completely incorporated lesson learned from previous loan agreements. This was true
    at least for monitoring and evaluation, training and the skills mix of supervision mission.
l The number of WB missions was not enough and the project was left over one year with almost nobody
    visiting the project. The ever changing structure of the supervisory teams negatively affected the
    implementation of the project. Mission also suffered inadequate skills mix to address all project
    objectives.
l It took the Bank over three years to propose to the MoH the need for technical assistance in assessing
    training needs, introduce proper tools and procedures to manage training activities in a more efficient


                                                     - 20 -

   and transparent manner. The latter should have come from earlier missions or even during the first
   stages of the project cycle with subsequent monitoring.
l Detailed performance management plan should have been developed at the early implementation stages.
   Missions kept criticizing the plan without providing applicable remedial actions.
l Some of the Bank's monitoring supervisory missions provided great help and guidance towards
   successful implementation.
l The Bank's approval of amendment and extension was crucial to completion of many delayed
   activities. Most of the achieved activities under component 2 were implemented during the year of
   extension.
l Training of PMU manager and PIU staff members as well as other government staff from various
   ministries on WB procedures and regulations on management, procurement, and accounting and
   financial management was highly appreciated by all concerned parties. Training had been considered
   crucial to all successful project achievements.

Performance of the Government
Overall government performance was rated as partially satisfactory.
l The launch of the project was delayed for about one year. The availability of qualified teams from the
   government side was of crucial importance to timely declaration of project effectiveness.
l The performance of the Steering Committee (SC) was not up to expectations. The SC had changed
   eight times during project's lifetime where differences in opinions and even policies were obvious with
   no commitment to project activities.
l The lengthy bureaucratic procedures practiced by different government institutions have contributed to
   the observed delays of project activities. Nevertheless, the MoF made some exceptions for the HSRP
   which contributed to reducing some foreseen delays.
l The selection criteria for equipment were considered by many as not strong enough to yield the highest
   quality.
l Lack of incentives to the technical tendering committees had resulted in delayed awarding of bids.
l MoH PIU did not have all categories of professional staff needed to facilitate and monitor activities and
   was not delegated enough authorities. However, PIUs were following up the planned activities
   efficiently preparing timely progress reports and providing documentation and being responsive to
   clients' needs.
l Setting Special Account for the project at the Central Bank contributed to timely payments and
   contributed to reduction of delays.
l The government cooperated well with the visiting WB supervisory missions. Despite few instances of
   miscommunication with the Bank, implementation was abiding to WB as well as Government's
   regulations especially with regard to tendering and procurement.

Sustainability Issues
l Sustainability of activities related to construction and renovation are likely. All of the three institutions
   have maintenance departments and contracts with private companies to perform regular maintenance of
   civil works.
l As for medical equipment, MoH, the major recipient of this activity has a satisfactory maintenance
   structure developed over the last few years. Currently there is a central referral location run by certified
   biomedical engineers in addition to regional workshops in almost all hospitals run by biomedical
   technicians. Both engineers and technicians received advanced and valuable training by WB loan.
   Sustainability for this part was considered as likely.
l Sustainability of training involves good planning, continuing education programs and the ability to
   retain trained staff within the institution. Generally, the availability of the government funds earmarked
   for training is limited. The evaluation team found that most of those trained by the WB loan were


                                                    - 21 -

    retained in their institutions.
l The sustainability of the already built information systems seems to be likely despite that systems are
    still not fully functional in all locations. All the hardware and software contracts came with about 3
    year free of charge maintenance guarantee. All three institutions have IT departments overseeing the
    maintenance of hardware and software.
l The reforms in the pharmaceutical and insurance fields are likely and expected to advance and last.
    This is particularly evident with the creation of JFDA that has clear vision and reasonable future plans
    to continue advancing the pharmaceutical sector in Jordan. The reform related to the establishment of
    the HHC secretariat that is supposed to oversee the whole health sector in Jordan does not seem to be
    sustainable.

Lessons learned
l Some of the time consuming activities such as land acquisition, designs, studies, approving the
    standard bidding documents can be done before the declaration of the effectiveness date of the project.
l Comprehensive performance implementation plan with input, process, output outcome and impact
    monitoring and evaluation indicators should be prepared before negotiations, and finalized at early
    stages of project implementation.
l Establishment of the PMU and 3 PIUs at early stages with subsequent capacity building of staff
    members helped considerably the effective implementation of the project.
l The government sector is by no means homogenous and is governed by different rules and regulations.
    Activities related to having unified procedures and standards and common data warehouses should not
    be part of project activities without supportive legislation.
l Establishment of special tendering committee that is liberated from the routine bureaucratic procedures
    would have reduced much of the encountered delayed.
l Project implementation units should be delegated more authority and resources and be closer to
    decision makers in order to overcome the problems of bureaucracy.
l Project management should have the necessary skills mix to meet all project objectives.
l A database detailing the previous conduct of contractors and equipment providers including history
    pertinent to liquidated damages has to be prepared. Only qualified contractors with good performance
    history should be invited to bids for both civil works and equipment.
l Instability of structure of the Steering Committee as well as WB supervision missions had a negative
    impact on project implementation and supervision activities.
l The Tender Technical Committees as well as Delivery and Acceptance Committees should be devoted
    solely to evaluating and awarding bids and approving goods.
l Dissemination of important documents should be well planned. Resources used in preparation and
    printing of NDP, NDF and EDL were largely wasted because of absence of effective promotion and
    distribution.
l WB missions should be more frequent and well planned with adequate skills mix pertinent to all project
    objectives.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of facilities rehabilitated              9                                      11
Percent turnaround time saved for RMS lab    80%                                    No percentage estimate available but tests
orders                                                                              now take between a minimum of 20 minutes
                                                                                    and a maximum of 3 days down from 2 days
                                                                                    minimum to 6 weeks maximum prior to
                                                                                    laboratory rehabilitation
1.3 No. of signed contracts for new medical  11                                     11
equipment
1.4 No. of MOH, RMS, and JUH staff trained 380                                      370
in management, nursing, financing and
biomedical engineering
HIS operational in MOH, RMS and JUH          Yes                                    Yes
2.2 No. of JUH staff trained on new HMIS     1220 (formal and informal training)    350 (formal training only)
system
2.3 Number of RMS staff training on new      860 (formal and informal training)     284 (formal training only)
HMIS system
2.4 Percentage of savings in JUH drug                                               Not Available
dispensing
4.1 Number of MOH Drug Directorate staff     100                                    101
trained
4.2 No. of public sector facilities (health  60                                     380 primary and comprehensive health
centers and OPDs) using standard treatment                                          centers
protocols
4.3 Number of new drug laws and regulations 7                                       5 Laws, 1 bylaw and 4 criteria and
enacted                                                                             regulations (see list below)
5.1 Number of health reform initiatives                                             3 (expansion of health insurance, hospital
submitted for approval                                                              accreditation, Special Tendering Unit

ADDITIONAL M & E DATA COLLECTED
DURING ICR PROCESSING



Drug Registration                                                                   Now bound to time limit of 180 days (6
                                                                                    months) down from 2 years before
                                                                                    automation. Actual time now taking 90 days
                                                                                    (3 months)
Expected Savings from new drug Pricing                                              5 Million JDs annually
Policy
Decrease in RMS Hospital Length of Stay                                             Reduced from 4.2 to 3.2 days
due to improved efficiency of RMS
Laboratory
Efficiency Gains from RMS hospital                                                  Inpatient load has increased by 20% in 2004
rehabilitation                                                                      as against same period in 2002. Number of
                                                                                    Physicians increased by 24%in 2004
No. of MOH staff trained on new                                                     over 250
Computerization system
Percentage time saving in MOH Tendering                                             25% to 50%
Process (through the newly established
Special Tendering Unit


List of Pharmaceutical Sector Studies Conducted under Component 4
1. Reorganization of activities of the Drug Directorate
2. Reorganization of management systems and operating procedures of the DQCL
3. Determining the potential cost savings and viability of implementing generic substitution
4. Impact of drug pricing structure changes recommended by the NDP
5. Methodology for the development of standard treatment guidelines
6. Improving the estimation of drugs for procurement and review the joint procurement arrangements



                                                               - 23 -

 7. Improvement of the analysis and presentation of the annual drug statistics
 8. Projection on drug use and development of a scientific basis for policy decisions on drug registration
    and pricing
 9. Study of prescription practice and provide scientific basis for policy decisions
10. Patients' compliance and self-medication
11. The role of the pharmacist in the rational use of drugs.

List of Drug Laws and Regulations Enacted
 1. Provisional Jordan Food & Drug Administration Law No. 31/April 2003 1: Establishes the JFDA,
    sets its goals, and describes administration and funding.
 2. Provisional Drug and Pharmacy Law No. 80 / 2001: Revokes the earlier Pharmacy Profession
    Practice Law of 1972 and provides for regulation of drugs, infants' formula and food, herbal
    preparations, disinfectants, detergents, medical equipment and supplies, prepared vitamins & minerals,
    and cosmetics, regulation of the practice of pharmacy, pharmaceutical institutions, including their
    inspection, control of narcotics and hallucinogens and regulation of drug information.
3. Provisional Clinical Trial Law No. 67/ 2001, and the amendment No. 44 / 2003: Regulates the
    conduct of therapeutic and non-therapeutic studies in humans.
 4. Provisional Food Safety Law No.79 / 2001: States principal requirements of safe food for human
    beings, safeguards for all kind of food, if it is illegal (when adulterated), if it bears or contains an added
    poisonous or deleterious (harmful) substance or contain residues of pesticides, or contains a naturally
    occurring poisonous or deleterious substance which ordinarily renders it injurious to health. It also
    regulates food containers and food additives that should be FDA approved, in addition to import and
    export requirements.
 5. Drugs Testing Regime issued by virtue of Article 104 B of the Provisional Drug and Pharmacy
    Law No. 80 / 2001: Provides for the circumstances in which drug products must be tested by the
    quality control laboratory, procedures for dealing with batches that fail testing, establishment of a
    committee that makes decisions and recommendations about: selection of reference laboratories,
    products that do not need to be tested, appeals concerning testing results and actions to be taken by a
    manufacturer when a product fails testing.
 6. Provisional Joint Procurement Bylaw No. 91 2002: Organizes purchase of drugs for RMS, MOH,
    JUH, King Abdullah Hospital, and any other public university hospital. Attached to the Council of
    Ministers and has Board of Directors with the Prime Minister presiding over. The bylaw stipulates the
    existence of a Central Purchasing Committee with the membership from all parties concerned. JPD will
    be also responsible for delivery of purchased items.

From the above laws, many pieces of legislation had arisen namely:
 1. Drug Registration Criteria: Defines the matters to be taken into account during registration, renewal
    of registration and variation of drugs, vaccines, sera and biological products. Sets time frames in which
    applications for registration, renewal of registration and variation must be decided, establishes that
    registration has a currency of 5 years, provides for appeals against rejection of applications for
    registration, renewal of registration and variations, provides for prohibition of import, discontinuation
    of sale and distribution, revocation of registration, and recall in a range of circumstances. It also
    defines criteria for registration of pharmaceutical products containing vitamins and or minerals.
 2. Drug Pricing Criteria: The pricing criteria have recently changed to provide a range of methods to
    calculate a price for the domestic market in Jordan. Essentially the arrangement is for prices to be
    calculated using each of the different methods and the one that provides the lowest price is adopted.
 3. Import and Export Requirements, of the various vaccines and plasmas and its derivatives.
 4. Instructions, Criteria and standards of approval: deals with infant's formula, special formula, the



                                                       - 24 -

      complementary food and the cancellation of marketing authorization for any of them.
5. Application form for registration of Infant Formula, Special Formula, and Complementary Foods.
6. Assessment Form of the Site of Manufacturing the Infants Formula, Special Formula and its
      Complementary Foods.
7. Information and documents required from the licensor.
Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                 Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Master plan norms and standards adopted,                                 Yes
increased number of managers of health
facilities with training in mgmt, adoption of a
training plan
2. Availability and use of HMIS systems at                                  Yes
the JUH, HMIS systems procured and initial
implementation at MOH and RMS completed.
3. Completion and endorsement of                                            No
accounting and financial system studies and
availability of an operational plan for
implementation.
4. National Drug Policy (NDP) adopted.                                      Yes
5. Technical Secretariat to the Higher Health                               Yes
Council appointed and operational.

1End of project




                                                         - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Rationalizing Jordan's health delivery system             31.04           35.58           114.6
2. Developing/implementing health information systems         3.00             4.41            141
3. Improving hospital financing and management                0.92             0.00              0
4. Reforming the pharmaceutical sector                        6.44             6.35           98.6
5. Continuing the reform process                              1.14             1.09           95.6

Total Baseline Cost                                          42.54           47.43
 Physical Contingencies                                       3.37
 Price Contingencies                                          2.97
                          Total Project Costs                48.88           47.43
                   Total Financing Required                  48.88           47.43


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             12.70          18.40         0.00          0.00        31.10
                                     (8.90)        (12.80)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (21.70)
2. Goods                              9.30          2.20          1.70          0.00        13.20
                                     (8.60)         (2.00)      (1.60)          (0.00)      (12.20)
3. Services                           0.00          0.00          3.40          0.00         3.40
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.80)          (0.00)      (0.80)
4. Project Management                 0.00          0.00          1.10          0.00         1.10
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)      (0.20)
   Total                             22.00          20.60         6.20          0.00        48.80
                                    (17.50)        (14.80)      (2.60)          (0.00)      (34.90)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             20.42          13.81        0.00           0.00       34.23
                                    (14.29)        (9.66)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (23.95)
2. Goods                              7.55          3.19         0.13           0.00       10.87
                                     (6.04)        (2.55)       (0.11)         (0.00)      (8.70)
3. Services                           1.27          1.04         0.00           0.00        2.31
                                     (1.27)        (1.04)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.31)
4. Project Management                 0.00          0.10         0.00           0.00        0.10
                                     (0.00)        (0.10)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.10)



                                                 - 26 -

       Total                               29.24             18.14              0.13             0.00             47.51
                                          (21.60)           (13.35)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (35.06)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Rationalizing Jordan's     25.77        10.17                    26.45         9.13                  102.6     89.8
health delivery system
2.                             2.90         0.42                     3.50         0.91                  120.7    216.7
Developing/implementing
health information systems
3. Improving hospital          0.64         0.36                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
financing and management
4. Reforming the               5.44         1.91                     4.66         1.69                  85.7      88.5
pharmaceutical sector
5. Continuing the reform       0.26         1.01                     0.39         0.70                  150.0     69.3
process

   Figures may not add up due to rounding.




                                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1996                   3    MANAGER (1); PRINCIPAL
                                             HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)

              01/1997                   7    PRINCIPAL HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ARCHITECT
                                             (1); PHARMACEUTICAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROVIDER
                                             PAYMENT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1997                   7    REGIONAL HEALTH
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PHARMACEUTICAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             PROVIDER PAYMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/1997                   2    HEALTH SECTOR LEADER
                                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              06/1998                   5    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HEALTH POLICY ADVISOR
                                             (1); SR. IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DIRECTOR, MNSHD (1)
              09/1998                   2    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SENIOR IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/1998                   4    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SENIOR IMPLEMENTATION



                                              - 29 -

                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             PHARMACEUTICAL
                             SPECIALIST (1); DIRECTOR
                             (1)
           02/1999         3 HEALTH SECTOR LEADER
                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                             HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)

Supervision
           06/19/1999      7 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                             SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC
                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC
                             (1); PHARMACEUTICAL
                             SPEC (1); MIS SPEC (1);
                             FINANCIAL MGT SPEC
                             (1)
           11/10/1999      3 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                             SECTOR LEADER (1);
                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)
           02/14/2000      4 SENIOR HEALTH SPEC (1);        S    S
                             PHARMACEUTICAL SPEC (1);
                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1);
                             PROGRAM ASSIST (1)
           02/01/2001        UPDATED - NO MISSION           S    S
           02/26/2001      3 LEAD PH SPECIALIST (1);        S    S
                             PRINCIPAL OP. OFFICER (1);
                             MIS CONSULTANT (1)
           09/24/2001      4 TTL (1); PUBLIC HEALTH         S    S
                             SPEC. (1); HEALTH MIS SPEC.
                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                             (1)
           03/28/2002        UPDATED - NO MISSION           S    S
           06/13/2002 -    7 LEAD PH SPECIALIST,            U    U
           MID-TERM          HEALTH SPECIALIST,
           REVIEW            IMPLEMENTATION
                             SPECIALIST, HEALTH MIS
                             SPECIALIST,
                             PHAMACEUTICAL
                             SPECIALIST, PROGRAM
                             ASSISTANT, OPERATIONS
                             OFFICER
           09/20/2002        UPDATED - NO MISSION           U    U
           03/19/2003        UPDATED - NO MISSION           U    U
           06/12/2003      5 TTL (1); PH SPECIALIST (1);    S    U
                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                             PROCUREMENT
                             CONSULTANT (1 ); HEALTH
                             CONSULTANT (1)
           12/19/2003        UPDATED - NO MISSION           S    U
           02/15/2004      5 TTL/SR. HEALTH SPEC (1);       S    S
                             SR. PROC SPEC (1);
                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);



                             - 30 -

                                            INFORMATIONS SPEC (1);
                                            FMS (1)
               10/15/2004               4   TTL/SR. PH SPECIALIST; SR.         S    S
                                            INFORMATIONS SPECIALIST;
                                            SR PROC. SPEC.;
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST
               12/04/04                 1   PH SPEC. (ICR AUTHOR)              S    S
               Pre-ICR Mission

 ICR
               03/02/2005              2     PH SPECIALIST; SR.                S    S
                                             INFORMATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              NA                        105,478
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   NA                        100,000
  Supervision                             NA                        648,280
  ICR                                     NA                         40,000
  Total                                   NA                        893,758




                                             - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Project Appraisal Document for Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Health Sector Reform Project, March
    5, 1999 (Report No. 19006-JO)
 2. Aide Memoires/Memorandum of Understanding, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports,
    Official Correspondences
 3. Project Progress Reports from PMU and PIUs
 4. Borrower's Project ICR Report dated February 2005
 5. Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Health Sector Study, April 1997 (Report No. 16561)
 6. Jordan Country Assistance Strategy November 1999 (Report No. 19890)
 7. QAG Quality at Entry Assessment Report, April 22, 1998
 8. Early Implementation Assessment Report, Dec. 2001
 9. Quality Enhancement Review Report, April 2003
10. Report of Consultants financed under the project or by the Bank as part of supervision.
11. Implementation Completion Report of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Health Management Project
    (Health II), June 19, 2002 (Report No. 24312)




                                                  - 34 -

- 35 -

