Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4449-JO
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 8, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4449-JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1999 between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the “General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  2
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“The Steering Committee” means the Committee referred to in Paragraph 1 
(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, established by the Borrower to supervise 
implementation of the Project;
(b)
“JUH” means Jordan University Hospital;
(c)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto;
(d)
“RMS” means the Royal Medical Services, established and operating 
pursuant to Law No. 67 of 1965;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(f)
“The Project Management Unit” means the Unit referred to in Paragraph 
1(b) (i) 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, established by the Borrower for 
monitoring and overall coordination of Project implementation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
thirty-five million United States dollars (US$35,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
Page  3
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, and health services practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be 
made with the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the 
costs of the Project.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  4
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  5
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P. O. Box 555
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address: 
Telex:
Ministry of Planning
21319NPC JO
Amman
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Marwan Muasher 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  20,000,000
70%
(2)
Consultants' services
   1,500,000
100%
and training
Page  6
(3)
Goods
  10,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for 
other items pro-
cured locally
(4)
Unallcated
  3,000,000
TOTAL
 35,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$3,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after March 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:  (a) for expenditures under contracts 
for works costing less than $700,000 equivalent; (b) for expenditures under contracts 
for goods and equipment costing less than $250,000 equivalent; (c) for expenditures 
for services under contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (d) for expenditures for services under contracts for the 
employment of individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) for expenditures 
for training under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (f) for 
fellowships, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase efficiency, quality and financial 
sustainability of the health services within the Borrower’s territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Enhancing the operational efficiency of priority public sector health facilities 
through the rehabilitation of MOH, RMS, and JUH facilities according to the masterplan 
results and the construction and rehabilitation of buildings, including Al Bashir 
Hospital, Princess Basma Hospital, regional storage facilities, and a laboratory for 
RMS, and the provision of equipment and personnel training.
Part B:
Strengthening: (i) public health planning through the creation of a national 
health information system, and (ii) the delivery of public health services through the 
improvement of management information systems for patient records, services, inventory 
and personnel, including the provision of equipment, software, consultant services and 
personnel training therefor.
Page  7
Part C:
Improving hospital financing and management through the creation and 
implementation of a financing system for paying hospitals and physicians, including 
the provision of management tools, equipment and personnel training therefor.
Part D:
Increasing the quality and efficiency of the pharmaceutical sector, including 
the development and implementation of a program to promote generic substitution and 
rational use of drugs and adoption of essential drug lists and drug pricing, 
procurement, storage, distribution and quality control policies, through the 
construction of a drug quality control laboratory, and provision of consulting 
services, personnel training, laboratory and computer equipment and materials, and 
carrying out of studies.
Part E:
Carrying out of studies and the provision of consultant services to support: (i) 
continued exploration of alternative reform proposals for the health sector; and (ii) 
effective Project execution and monitoring. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
November 15, 2003
   955,000 
May 15, 2004
   980,000 
November 15, 2004
 1,005,000 
May 15, 2005
 1,030,000 
November 15, 2005
 1,060,000 
May 15, 2006
 1,085,000 
November 15, 2006
 1,115,000 
May 15, 2007
 1,145,000 
November 15, 2007
 1,175,000 
May 15, 2008
 1,205,000 
November 15, 2008
 1,235,000 
May 15, 2009
 1,270,000 
November 15, 2009
 1,305,000 
May 15, 2010
 1,340,000 
November 15, 2010
 1,375,000 
May 15, 2011
 1,410,000 
November 15, 2011
 1,445,000 
May 15, 2012
 1,485,000 
November 15, 2012
 1,525,000 
May 15, 2013
 1,565,000 
November 15, 2013
 1,605,000 
May 15, 2014
 1,650,000 
November 15, 2014
 1,690,000 
May 15, 2015
 1,735,000 
November 15, 2015
 1,785,000 
May 15, 2016
 1,825,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the “Guidelines”) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $7,000,000 $6,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,00020,000,000 equivalent, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
Page  9
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works from each of the Project 
Implementation Units; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$700,000 or more; (iii) the first two contracts for goods from each of the Project 
Implementation Units; and (iv) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the “Consultant Guidelines”) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for technical assistance for: (i) upgrading of clinical skills of MOH 
medical personnel under Part A of the Project; (ii) improving service quality and 
efficiency at the health facility level under Part B of the Project; and (iii) 
developing management tools under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical assistance for: (i) upgrading of clinical skills of MOH 
medical personnel under Part A of the Project; (ii) improved service quality and 
efficiency at the health facility level under Part B of the Project; and (iii) the 
development of management tools under Part C of the Project, which are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Page  10
Services for: (i) technical assistance for upgrading of clinical skills of MOH 
medical personnel under Part A of the Project; (ii) architectural and engineering 
services under Part A of the Project; (iii) technical assistance to improved service 
quality and efficiency at the health facility level under Part B of the Project; (iv) 
the development of management tools under Part C of the Project; and (v) other tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms from each of the Project Implementation Units, and each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
In order to facilitate the efficient oversight of the Project, the 
Borrower shall continue to maintain the Steering Committee, whose membership shall 
include the Borrower’s Minister of Health (Chair) and Secretary General, the directors 
of RMS and JUH and senior officials from the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning, to be 
responsible for Project oversight and the provision of policy guidance.
(b)
The Project Director shall report to the Chair of the Steering Committee; 
the incumbent in the position of Project Director shall continue to be satisfactory to 
the Bank.
(c)
In order to facilitate the efficient implementation of the Project, the 
Borrower shall continue to maintain, with terms of reference and staffing satisfactory 
to the Bank separate Project Implementation Units within each of MOH, RMS and JUH, to 
be responsible for the execution of their respective activities under the Project.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementation Units within 
each of MOH, RMS and JUH shall prepare and furnish quarterly progress reports to the 
Page  11
Project Management Unit, such progress reports to include: (i) a summary of the status 
of project implementation, (ii) financial records, (iii) constraints faced and 
corrective actions to be taken, (iv) a work plan for the subsequent six-months, and 
(v) an update on the monitoring indicators.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Management Unit shall:
(i)
furnish to the Bank prior to October 1 of each year its two-year 
rehabilitation program, its plan for training of personnel 
under the Project, 
budgets and reports;
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such 
rehabilitation program 
training plan, budgets and reports; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank for its approval proposed new construction 
plans under the 
Project, together with evidence of land acquisition, 
as well as a 
certification that such new construction will 
not require any involuntary 
relocation and will not result in 
any potential adverse environmental effects.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that annual budgetary allocations required for 
the carrying out of the Project, including the construction and rehabilitation 
programs, are made.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on  an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank  quarterly progress reports, acceptable to the Bank regarding the 
implementation of the Project during the preceding quarter, and a work plan for the 
subsequent quarter;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 1, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by April 1, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
Page  12
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall,  at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other  evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
Page  13
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
