Report No. PID5009
Project Name                     Jordan-Health Sector Reform (@+) ...
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Health
Project ID                       JOPE39749
Borrower                         Government of Jordan
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health, Royal Medical Services,
and Jordan University Hospital
Date This PID Prepared           December 17, 1998
Date Initial PID Prepared        April 14, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         July 1997
Projected Board Date             January 28, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Jordan is a lower middle-income country with a population of 4.1 million.
It has a small economy, chronic water shortages, limited (5 percent) arable
land, and must import virtually all energy sources. The recent worldwide
recession and Gulf War have adversely affected Jordan's economy, causing a
major decline in income, high inflation, and an increase in unemployment and
poverty (both currently about 15 percent). While real GDP is projected to
grow about six percent annually for the next several years, in 1994 Jordan's
per capita income (US$1500) was only about two-thirds of its 1987 level.
Despite these fiscal constraints, strong Government commitments to health,
education, and other social programs, have resulted in impressive social
indicators. With a literacy rate of over 80 percent and well developed human
resource base, Jordan has compensated for its poor natural resource endowments
by exporting its surplus labor to the neighboring oil exporting countries.
This proposed project focuses on Jordan's health sector, a sector with
critical human and economic implications that currently accounts for almost 8
percent of Jordan's economy.
2.      Jordan's health system is a complex amalgam of two major public programs
managed by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Royal Medical Services (RMS),
which both finance and deliver care, some smaller public programs (e.g.,
several university-based programs), a large and growing private sector, and
several NGOs (such as UNRWA which provides care to Palestinian refugees). The
MOH is responsible for the separate Civil Insurance Program for civil servants
which is the largest publicly financed health insurance program in terms of
expenditures (28 percent of total health expenditures in 1994). The RMS
manages a health insurance program which is the second largest in terms of
public expenditures (11 percent of total expenditures in 1994), but largest
in terms of the number of individuals covered (35 percent of the population,
of whom less than 100,000 are active duty military). In 1994, privately
financed services accounted for an estimated 53 percent of all health spending
and the private sector accounted for over 30 percent of service delivery
capacity. The shares of the largely unregulated private sector are growing,



resulting in a two-tiered system of care.
3.      Jordan is in the midst of the epidemiological transition with acute
respiratory infections and perinatal diseases still causing a large loss of
productive life while non-communicable diseases and illnesses are becoming
increasingly prevalent. Infant and child mortality indicators are favorable
compared with other countries in the region and with other countries at
similar levels of income, although they are still high by OECD standards.
Despite significant declines in fertility in recent years (from 5.6 children
per woman in 1990), Jordan's total fertility rate (TFR) of 4.6 children per
woman is still quite high. Population growth is high (3.6 percent per year),
largely as a result of high fertility, low mortality, and migration.
4.      The Health Sector Study highlighted that while the health system performs
relatively well in terms of overall access and outcomes, it is expensive and
inefficient, and there are geographic maldistributions of resources. Jordan
spends about 8 percent of its GDP on health care, well in excess of most
middle income and even some western industrialized countries. While Jordan
provides coverage for its poor and disabled, an estimated 20 percent of the
population lacks formal coverage, and Government financing for health care
could be better structured to reflect ability to pay. Lack of a coordinated
policy apparatus and relevant data for decision-making preclude effective
policy-making across Jordan's multiple public and private financing
arrangements and delivery systems.
5.      There are significant inefficiencies in the service delivery system.
There is excess overall capacity as evidenced by a hospital occupancy rate of
63 percent (69 percent in the public sector and 49 percent in the private
sector; 80 percent is the generally accepted benchmark). Inappropriate
hospital use results from lack of an effective referral system and a hospital-
based orientation for treatment. Inefficient case management leads to costly
inpatient treatment of conditions that could be treated on an outpatient basis
and excessive use of expensive drugs. The centralized allocation process for
supplying and equipping facilities and paying personnel in the public sector
provides few incentives for the efficient delivery of services at the
individual institution level. Finally, there are inefficiencies in terms of
overall management, procurement, storage, distribution, pricing policies, and
the rational use of pharmaceuticals, which account for over one-fourth of
health spending and two percent of GDP.
6.      There is limited data to evaluate the quality of care and consumer
satisfaction. The rapid growth in the private sector suggests dissatisfaction
with the services provided through the public sector and is leading towards a
two-tiered system of care (those who can afford to pay go to the private
sector while those who cannot are relegated to the public health facilities).
The lack of management systems (e.g., for patient records, inventory) in the
public sector do not foster good case management and follow-up. Indeed, there
are few incentives in the public sector for providers to be concerned about
the quality of services provided. Quality could also be jeopardized by the
lack of standards and norms for infrastructure.
Objectives
7.      The project is expected to increase the efficiency, quality, and long-run
financial sustainability of health services in Jordan. The project is based
- 2-



on the findings of the recently completed Health Sector Study, prepared
jointly between the World Bank and the Government of Jordan (April 1997).
Jordan is at a cross-roads in the evolution of its health system. Passive
acceptance of the status quo would likely result in increasing costs, access
gaps for vulnerable populations, wasteful excess capacity, and poor value for
money in terms of health outcomes. Moreover, the rising costs of public
programs driven by the epidemiological transition, population aging,
population growth, and clinical and economic inefficiencies in the delivery
system will hinder efforts to achieve macroeconomic stability and growth.
8.      The Government of Jordan has decided against passive acceptance of the
status quo and instead is embarking upon a long term reform program which
will, for the first time, draw together all major players in the sector (the
Ministry of Health, the Royal Medical Services, Jordan University Hospital,
and the private sector).
Description
9.      The first phase of this reform will be supported through this project and
will focus on three key areas: (i) containing growth in health expenditures;
(ii) assuring the efficient utilization of physical facilities; and (iii)
improving the delivery and quality of health care services. Building upon
this foundation, the second phase will likely be expanded to address equity
(universal health insurance), quality (medical education, regulation of the
private sector), management (in the context of Government-wide civil service
reform), and cost effectiveness (rationalizing the public/private mix). The
five components of the project to support the first phase of the reform
strategy are:
A. Rationalizing Jordan's Health Delivery System. Currently, most facility
rehabilitation/construction decisions are based on incomplete investment
strategies which do not systematically consider the demographic and
epidemiological characteristics of the population and/or the existing
resources available. Similarly, there are no standards and norms applied in
the construction of facilities to ensure efficiency in the allocation of space
and relative proximity of services. The current hospital occupancy rate of
67T suggests considerable room for improved efficiency (80, occupancy is the
generally accepted norm). Rationalizing the investment strategy for health
facilities in Jordan is a priority need and will support improved economic
efficiency, clinical effectiveness and quality of health services.
As a tool for rationalizing investment decisions for public sector hospitals,
the Government is preparing a health facility masterplan which incorporates
norms and standards, overall needs, and existing public and private sector
capacity. Scheduled to be completed in March 1999, the masterplan will
identify and prioritize all health facility investment needs. The project
would finance the top slice of these priority public sector structural and
equipment investment needs. (Preliminary estimates are that the project will
support about one third of all public sector needs.) The project would also
support training to upgrade the clinical skills of MOH medical personnel.
Provisional estimated allocations of this component's civil works/equipment
resources based on the institution's relative need as defined through the
masterplan are: MOH: US$18.6 million, RMS: US$9.7 million, and JUH: US$2.7
million.
-3-



B. Developing and Implementing Health Information Systems. This component
will address two sets of needs: (i) for improved public health, it will help
develop a national health information system which will provide the Government
with relevant and timely epidemiological data; and (ii) for improved service
quality and efficiency at the health facility level, help develop management
information systems for patient records, services, inventory, and personnel.
Financing would be provided for equipment, technical assistance, software
development/purchase, and training.
C. Improving Hospital Financing and Management. This component will include
the development and implementation of a financing system for paying hospitals
and physicians which supports the efficient use of resources. Developing this
new system will involve: (i) establishing clear and consistent accounting
standards that would apply to all public health facilities; (ii) setting up
hospital-based financial management systems; and (iii) adopting modern
approaches to pay hospitals such as case-mix adjusted global budgets and
various physician incentive arrangements. The goal would be to provide
hospital managers and employees incentives to be efficient by linking
budgetary allocations to established criteria and giving managers the tools to
operate autonomously and to be more responsive to current or emerging demands.
The project will finance the development of management tools (e.g., financial
and accounting systems), equipment, and training necessary to implement these
systems.
D. Reforming the Pharmaceutical Sector. Pharmaceuticals account for over
one-fourth of all health spending (2t of GDP). Such high expenditures reflect
inefficiency, waste, and improper use of drugs. To improve the quality and
efficiency of the pharmaceutical sector, a series of reforms would be
undertaken: (i) promoting generic substitution; (ii) implementing treatment
protocols and training in the rational use of drugs; (iii) adopting essential
drug lists; (iv) improving overall sector management and pricing policies; and
(iv) reforming the processes for drug procurement, storage, distribution, and
quality control. Specific inputs will include upgrading the facilities and
operations of the drug quality control lab, providing technical assistance to
develop joint procurement mechanisms for the public health sector (e.g., MOH,
RMS, and JUH) and to draft legislation which will serve as the legal framework
for the pharmaceutical reform program, and providing training in the use of
essential drug lists and treatment protocols. Financing would be provided for
rehabilitation of the quality control laboratory, laboratory and computer
equipment, technical assistance, studies, workshops, and materials development
(e.g., to support treatment protocols).
E. Continuing the Reform Process. This project is addressing some, but not
all, of the issues identified in the Health Sector Study. Sectoral reform is
not a static process; it is instead to be implemented incrementally in
response to evolving needs and demands. This component will support the
continued preparation, evaluation, and monitoring of the sector reform
program. The Project Management Unit (PMU) for health reform, in
collaboration with the Higher Health Council (HHC) will commission studies and
recruit technical expertise as needed to explore alternative reform
proposals.    In addition, this component will support effective implementation
of the project activities by supporting the PMU and project implementation
units (PIUs) to carry out their project management and monitoring functions.
Financing
-4-



10.     The total project cost is about US$50 million of which IBRD is expecting
to contribute US$35 million and the Government US$15 million. The Government
is seeking funding from other donors to substitute for their own contribution
and to finance additional reform activities.
Implementation
11.     To ensure continuity from project preparation to implementation, the
technical quality of the reform program, and effective coordination among the
institutions, three groups will be formed to guide and manage project
activities. The groups are: (i) a Steering Committee; (ii) a Project
Management Unit (PMU); and (iii) the PIUs - one in each of the three
implementing institutions (the MOH, RMS, and JUH). The PMU will ensure that
policy guidance from the Steering Committee is incorporated into project
implementation by serving as the link between the PIUs and the Steering
Committee. A project director (to be recruited on a contractual basis by
December 31, 1998) will head the PMU and have specific responsibilities for
ensuring coordination and collaboration among the three implementing agencies.
Sustainability
12.     Over the next twenty years, Jordan will need to enhance its social
programs to handle its dual disease burden as well as its transition to and
integration in the global economy at the same time that its health sector will
face increased financial pressures resulting from the growing non-communicable
disease burden and new and higher cost medical technologies. This project
will promote the long-run financial sustainability of the health care
financing system by cost-effectively improving the clinical effectiveness of
the system and increasing the economic efficiency of the service delivery
network.
Poverty Category
13.     This project does not specifically target the poor in Jordan, however it
is expected that improving the fairness of the current arrangements for
financing health care would improve the link between financial burden and
ability to pay for services.
Environmental Aspects
14.     The project has been placed in the environmental screening Category "B"
consistent with World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 (see Annex 1).
Program Objective Categories
15.     The project will contributed to capacity building and public policy
reform.
Project Benefits
16.     The benefits of successfully implementing a well structured reform
program are clear in terms of the potential for improved efficiency in the
utilization of resources, greater patient and provider satisfaction, improved
quality, and more equitable distribution of health resources. By encouraging
efficiency and improving quality, the project will benefit all stakeholders.
- 5 -



Patients will benefit through higher quality and more accessible services.
Health providers and managers will have better tools to manage resources,
incentives for improved efficiency, new management skills, and patients who
are more satisfied with the facility and services available. The provider
payment reforms will foster improved provider satisfaction and facilitate
managers' ability to respond to local needs. Finally, the pharmaceutical
reforms will reduce out of pocket expenditures for drugs and better ensure
that pharmaceuticals are appropriately prescribed.
17.     Government planners and decision-makers will also benefit from the
project as they will have better data from which to track resource utilization
and morbidity/mortality trends which can be applied as tools for effective
planning. Provider payment reforms and rationalizing facility planning will
result in better use of overall resources.
Project Risks
18.     The principal risks are: (i) the pharmaceutical reforms might not lead to
cost reductions and the private sector may try to thwart their implementation;
(ii) the Government might not adopt of the health facility norms and
standards; (iii) health care providers may resist the provider payment
reforms; and (iv) capacity issues at MOH may delay implementation. The risk
mitigating measures include involving the key stakeholders in the development
of the reform program (e.g., the Government is taking the lead in developing
the norms and standards and drug importers have participated in the
development of the pharmaceutical reforms). With respect to implementation of
the MOH program, staff of the project unit have been carefully selected and a
Project Management Unit will be established to coordinate project activities
and resolve implementation issues among all three implementing agencies.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
George Schieber and E. Gail Richardson (MNSHD)
Tel Nos: (202) 458-7319/ (202) 473-2853
Fax: (202) 477-0036 or (202) 477-8642
Email: Gschieber@worldbank.org
Erichardson@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 18, 1998.
Environmental Aspects
The only project input which might have an environmental impact would be the
- 6 -



rehabilitation of priority public health facilities, for which an
environmental impact assessment would be required. The capacity to handle
medical and non-medical waste is being incorporated into the norms and
standards being developed for the sector. As such, consideration will be
given to the waste treatment/disposal capacity at health facilities during the
preparation of the investment masterplan and during the preparation of
facility rehabilitation plans.
Currently, medical waste at some hospitals is incinerated. At other hospitals
and lower level facilities, there are no such facilities for waste disposal.
Based on the findings of the masterplan, an assessment will be completed on
which modern approach for handling medical waste would be most cost effective
and environmentally sustainable in Jordan. Similarly, a strategy for linking
the lower level facilities with the hospitals for the appropriate disposals of
medical waste will be prepared.
These allocations represent base costs and include the estimated fees for
architectural/engineering services.
The HHC is chaired by the Prime Minister and includes minister-level representatives from
the various relevant Government agencies (Ministries of Health, Finance, Planning), the
RMS, and private sector stakeholders.
-7-



