Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER  4050-NI 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
Second Health Services Extension and Modernization Project 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated  June 7, 2005 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4050-NI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
May 5, 1998, describing a program designed to raise the efficiency, effectiveness, equity 
and sustainability of the Borrower’s health system (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such program; and 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately nine 
years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program;  
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(D) 
the Association has received the following documents from the 
Borrower: (i) a 2004-2015 National Health Plan, dated September 6, 2004; and (ii) a Five 
Year Implementation Plan (the FYIP), dated January 24, 2005, part of which describes a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to implement the Borrower’s 
National Health Plan for Fiscal Years 2005-2009 (the two documents shall be referred to 
as the Plans) and declares the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Plans; 
 
(E) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from various Participating Donors (as 
hereinafter defined) grants and loans to assist in financing the FYIP; and 
 
(F) 
the Borrower, the Association and the Participating Donors have signed a 
statement (the Code of Conduct) incorporating the basic guidelines for implementing the 
FYIP and intend to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding, to be prepared under the 
Project, providing for common procedures on cooperation, dialogue, exchange of 
information, procurement and disbursement;  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association dated January 1, 1985 as amended through May 1, 2004 
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, 
the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits. To that end, if 
the Association shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association, may, by notice 
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to 
in respect of such item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to 
be consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
(b)  
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”; and 
 
(c) 
   Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is amended to 
read as follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BPHS” means Basic Package of Health Services, which comprises the 
list of health care services (including, 
inter alia
:
(i) maternal care; (ii) sexual reproductive 
health; (iii) infant health, child nutrition and development; and (iv) health education, 
detection and treatment of the most prevalent communicable and non-communicable 
diseases in adults) to be covered under a community health financing scheme offered by 
the SILAIS to PCs (as hereinafter defined);  
(b) “
Casas Maternas
”
means the centers that provide shelter and counseling 
(including, 
inter alia
,
family planning and other reproductive health services) to women 
and their children, as the case may be, in isolated and remote areas of the Borrower’s 
territory; 
(c) 
“Capitation Transfers” means the amount transferred by the MOH to a 
SILAIS Administrative Unit as part of a community health financing scheme under 
Management Agreements, calculated based on the per capita cost to make the BPHS 
available to a designated number of beneficiaries within a PC (as hereinafter defined);   
(d)  
“EA” means the Environmental Assessment conducted by the Borrower 
and presented to the Association on March 3, 2005 which contains, 
inter alia
,
a
Health 
Care Waste Management Plan and implementation procedures and mitigation 
arrangements to be utilized in managing the environmental impact generated by the 
construction and renovation or expansion of existing facilities under the Project;   
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for consultants´ services, 
goods, works and Capitation Transfers referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h)  
“FONSALUD” means Health Sector Support Fund, referring to the 
various special accounts of the Borrower, the Association and the Participating Donors 
contributing to the pooling of resources for the implementation of the FYIP;  
(i) 
“IPP” means the Indigenous People’s Plan presented by the Borrower to 
the Association and dated February 10, 2005; 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
(j) 
“Management Agreements” means “
Convenios de Gestion
”, the health 
care planning, monitoring and implementation agreements between the MOH and each 
SILAIS Administrative Unit by which, 
inter alia
,
Capitation Transfers will be made; 
(k) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(l) “
Municipios
”
means the Borrower’s local area health networks; 
(m) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement;  
(n)  
“Participating Community” and “PC” means a “
manzana”, “barrio”, 
“localidad”, “comunidad” 
or
“comarca
”; one of the various administrative subdivisions 
inside the Borrower’s territory and as defined under the laws of the Borrower, which for 
purposes of the Project, shall contain the population to be enrolled as potential 
beneficiaries of the BPHS;  
(o) 
“Participating Donors” means, collectively, the Inter-American 
Development Bank, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands, pooling at least part of their funds into the FONSALUD and having 
signed the Code of Conduct; 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 3, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(q) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(r) “SILAIS” 
means 
Sistema Local de Atención Integral de Salud
,
the 
MOH’s Local Health Care System serving the departments and autonomous regions of 
Boaca, Chinandega, Chontales, Esteli, Jinotega, León, Madriz, Magalpa, Nueva Segovia, 
Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte, (RAAN), Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur 
(RAAS),
 
and Rio San Juan; and, any other department or autonomous region 
subsequently agreed to by the Borrower and the Association; 
(s) 
“SILAIS Administrative Unit” means the Unit in each SILAIS with: (i) 
the contracting power to enter Management Agreements with MOH; and (ii) the capacity 
to carry out financial management and procurement responsibilities under the Project;   
Page  7
-
5
-
5
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and  
(u) 
“Technical Audits” means: (i) a social audit conducted quarterly by the 
Borrower to verify delivery of the BPHS; (ii) BPHS beneficiary satisfaction surveys 
carried out annually by the Borrower; and (iii) an independent assessment carried out 
annually by a consultant selected by the MOH to verify compliance with the indicators 
set forth in the Operational Manual. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million, two hundred thousand (7,200,000) Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR).
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Capitation Transfers under the Management Agreements and the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2009 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2015, and ending February 15, 
2045. Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2025 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall 
be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through the MOH and with the assistance of the SILAIS Administrative Units, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health, 
administrative, financial, social, public utility and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Association, said Manual to include, 
inter alia
:
Page  10
-
8
-
8
(a) 
Project implementation procedures, monitoring guidelines, the IPP, a 
summary of the EA and other related documents for the execution of the Project;  
(b) 
the criteria, costing mechanism, detailed rules and procedures for: (i) 
Capitation Transfers to be made under Management Agreements; and (ii) the delivery of 
the BPHS to PCs under performance agreements with public sector health care providers 
and service contracts with private sector health care providers; 
(c) 
procedures for: (i) the procurement of goods, works and services for the 
Project; and (ii) strengthening the procurement function of the MOH and the SILAIS 
Administrative Units; 
(d) 
the normative framework for the FONSALUD and other necessary 
financial management and audit procedures for the Project; 
(e) 
flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; 
(f) 
the indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating the Project; 
(g) 
draft models of Management Agreements, performance agreements with 
public sector health care providers and service contracts with private sector health care 
providers; and 
(h) 
detailed procedures on service delivery modalities of the BPHS.  
The Operational Manual may be amended from time to time with the 
Association’s prior approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
for purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the Project, formally 
restructure the MOH central offices and establish, by January 31, 2006, a purchasing unit 
within the MOH with clearly defined responsibilities on formulation and evaluation of 
Management Agreements; 
(b) 
establish within the MOH, and thereafter maintain throughout the 
execution of the Project, an entity to coordinate the FYIP with the Borrower, the 
Association and the Participating Donors, with functions and responsibilities acceptable 
to the Association and staffed with: (i) a head appointed by the Minister of Health whose 
terms of reference and conditions of employment are acceptable to the Association; and 
(ii) a small number of other officials who will be the liaison between the MOH and the 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
SILAIS, whose number, terms of reference and selection process are acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(c) 
establish within the MOH, and thereafter maintain throughout the 
execution of the Project, 
a
unit under the leadership of the MOH’s General Financial 
Administration Directorate, staffed with employees in adequate numbers, including a 
coordinator and two analysts, to: (i) manage the funds in the separate special accounts 
within the FONSALUD; and (ii) to supervise the financial management obligations of the 
SILAIS Administrative Units and the 
Municipios;
 
(d) 
reorganize the Procurement Unit within the MOH and strengthen it by 
appointing at least 5 procurement officers with qualifications and experience, satisfactory 
to the Association; and 
(e) 
for purposes of assisting in the overall management and execution of the 
Project, cause each SILAIS Administrative Unit, through the Management Agreements, 
to create and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, management units with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers, functions and responsibilities, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
through the MOH, enter into a Management Agreement with each 
SILAIS Administrative Unit, which agreement shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the SILAIS Administrative Unit’s obligation to: 
(A) 
carry out the Management Agreement and to meet the 
performance benchmarks specified or referred to therein; 
(B) 
enter into performance agreements with public sector 
health care providers and service contracts with private 
sector health care providers setting forth the SILAIS 
payment mechanisms with each service provider and to 
ensure that each service provider is solely paid for 
services related to the delivery of the BPHS;  
(C) 
keep records and accounts of expenditures incurred for 
the delivery of the BPHS; and 
(ii) 
monitoring, execution and capacity-building plans for the 
implementation of the FYIP; 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
(b) 
(i) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Management Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit; 
(ii) 
cause each SILAIS Administrative Unit to exercise its rights and 
carry out its obligations under agreements signed with public and 
private health care providers in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit; and 
(iii) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail 
to enforce any Management Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual, all in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)  
not later than November 1 of each year during Project implementation, 
submit to the Association for its approval Project annual implementation plans which 
shall include the project activities to be carried out by the Borrower in the coming year 
and thereafter, implement each said annual implementation plan, as agreed with the 
Association, in accordance with its terms; 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, bi-annual reports (i) integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section and of the 
Technical Audits on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said reports, and (ii) setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives, 
thereof, during the period following such date; and  
(d) 
bi-annually review with the Association on such dates as the Association 
shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project, and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said reports and the Asso
ciation’s views on the matter.  
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MOH, shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.  
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, hired by the Borrower 
within three months after the Effective Date; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
 Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any SILAIS Administrative Unit 
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its Management Agreement with 
the MOH, in which case the Association may suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account for expenditures incurred as 
payments to or for the benefit of the relevant SILAIS Administrative Unit. Before 
exercising this remedy, the Association shall notify the MOH and thereby give the MOH 
thirty days during which to obtain SILAIS Administrative Unit compliance with said 
obligations pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) (i) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower; and 
(b)  
 that the unit referred to Section 3.04 (c) has been established, staffed 
with the requisite number of professionals and is fully operational. 
Section 6.02.  
The date October 11, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Edificio del Mini
sterio de Hacienda y Crédito Publico 
 
Avenida Bolívar, frente a la Asamblea Nacional 
Managua, Nicaragua 
 
Apartado Postal 28 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
Facsimile: 
 
(505) 222-3033 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Washington D.C. and Managua, Nicaragua, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By/s/ Mario Arana Sevilla 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/s/ Jane Armitage 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1) Consu
ltants’ Services, 
2,780,000 
 
100% 
 
Goods, Works and Training  
 
Under Components A.2 and B  
 
of the Project 
  
 
(2) Consultants’ 
Services, 
1,180,000 
 
100% 
 
Goods, Works and Training  
 
Under Component C of the   
 
Project 
 
    
 
(3) Capitation 
Transfers 
2,740,000 
 
100% 
 
(4) 
Operating Costs and Audits 
420,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
80,000 
 
__________ 
 
7,200,000 
 TOTAL 
========== 
 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
“Consultants’ Services, Training and Audit” wherein, Training, means 
the reasonable cost of registration fees, travel and per-diem of trainers and participants, 
training materials, rental of facilities and equipment and other costs related to training to 
be carried out under the Project; and 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
(b) 
“Operating Costs” means reasonable MOH expenses, which would not 
have been incurred absent the Project, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel 
and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower; 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 650,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after March 1, 2005, but not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category 3 set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 to this Schedule, unless the purchasing unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement is operational.
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than 
US$1,000,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less 
than US$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve maternal and child health in the 
Borrower’s poorest municipalities by: (a) ensuring that PCs have access to a package of 
basic health and nutrition services; (b) strengthening the Borrower’s health services 
facilities network; and (c) providing institutional strengthening and capacity-building to 
the MOH. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Delivery of the BPHS
1. 
Payment of Capitation Transfers to SILAIS Administrative Units to deliver the 
BPHS to PCs. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to develop institutional capacity in the SILAIS 
and 
Municipios 
that will implement the delivery of the BPHS.  
Part B
:
Strengthening the Health Services Facilities Network
Strengthening of the Borrower’s health services facilities network by reinforcing 
physically and functionally the primary and secondary care facilities of the MOH to 
enable them to deliver the BPHS package. This will entail: 
1. 
rehabilitating and providing medical and hospital support equipment for the 
operation of the hospitals and health care centers in the municipalities covered by SILAIS 
and strengthening their managerial capacity; and  
2. expanding 
the 
Casas Maternas
 network by: (a) (i) building or rehabilitating 
approximately 30 
Casas Maternas
;
and (ii) acquiring equipment and furnishings for all 
Casas Maternas
 in the network and funding their recurrent costs; and (b) strengthening 
the provision of family planning services.  
Part C
:
Stewardship, Institutional Development and Decentralization
Development of the MOH’s leadership capacity and accountability by: 
Page  26
-
24
-
24
1. (a) de
veloping its capacity to evaluate the performance of the Borrower’s 
national health system; (b) providing technical assistance to coordinate and monitor 
implementation of the Borrower’s population policy; (c) providing capacity building and 
awareness raising activities to encourage municipal governments to take on their 
responsibilities regarding public health; and (d) strengthening its ability to coordinate and 
harmonize foreign aid in the health sector by, 
inter alia
,
financing the operational costs of 
the entity that will be coordinating the FYIP with the Borrower, the Association and the 
Participating Donors; 
2. 
strengthening institutional capacity to improve health service delivery and equity 
by: (a) developing the MOH’s purchasing function; and (b) providing technical 
assistance, training, and information technology systems development to improve its 
fiduciary capacity; and  
3. 
furthering the MOH’s decentralization agenda by: (a) transferring human and 
financial resources to SILAIS Administrative Units and local health care service 
providers; and (b) providing technical assistance, training and information technology 
systems development to the two autonomous regions of the Atlantic Coast. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2009. 
Page  27
-
25
-
25
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
D.  
Capitation Transfers made to SILAIS Administrative Units to cover expenditures 
incurred under Component A.1 of Schedule 2 shall not be subject to the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$350,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than US$1,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding using: (i) the procedures established by the Borrower in the 
Ley de 
Contrataciones del Estado
 and its implementing regulations; and (ii) the corresponding 
standard bidding documents issued by the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance which will be  
Page  28
-
26
-
26
subject to the Association’s prior approval on the basis of the its Procurement and 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
C. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review. With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$350,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association.  
 
Section III
.
Employment of Consultants
A. General
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants.  
 
B. 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for financial auditors, procurement auditors, and 
civil works consultants may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-
cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
Page  29
-
27
-
27
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
 
C. 
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
The Procurement Plan shall provide for the selection of consultants, including, 
inter alia
,
contract cost estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria 
and procedures and shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval 
before the issuance of any requests for proposals to consultants.   
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to the Prior Review of the Association: (i) with 
respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply; and (ii) with respect to each 
contract for the employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source 
basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on 
qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be subject to the prior approval of the 
Association. The contracts herein mentioned shall not be awarded until approval from the 
Association has been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to said contracts. 
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review as outlined in paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
