Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1363 
Project Name 
Health Services Extension and Modernization (2nd APL) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P078991 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Health 
Complejo Nacional de Salud “Dra. Concepción Palacios” 
Contiguo a Colonia 1 de Mayo 
Managua, Nicaragua 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 1, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 9, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
April 5, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Nicaragua’s health profile reflects the country’s high prevalence of poverty—and in particular its 
high rate of absolute poverty. Despite progress in reducing poverty over the past decade, with a 
per capita income of $710 Nicaragua remains one of the poorest countries in Latin America. 
Although from 1993 to 2001, poverty declined from 50% to 46%, and extreme poverty fell from 
19% to 15%, the gains were characterized by significant geographic differences.
 1
 In 2002, 44% 
of the population still lived in rural areas where the prevalence of extreme poverty was 25%, 
more than four times the rate of urban areas. On average, poorer households have higher fertility 
rates and larger families, as well as higher maternal, infant and child mortality.  In addition, 
tuberculosis, which remains a persistent public health problem, has become largely a disease of 
the poor. 
 
Nicaragua has made considerable progress in improving the health status of its people over the 
last decade. Life expectancy has reached 69 years, and since 1990, infant and child maternal 
mortality rates have fallen by 29 and 32 percent, respectively.
2
A
recent study of 165 countries 
that predicted life expectancy and infant mortality based on GDP, found that health status of 
Nicaraguans exceeds what one would anticipate, given the country’s per capita income. While 
Central America as a whole did better than predicted on both of these two key health indicators, 
among the Central American republics, Nicaragua had the largest positive deviations between its 
1
World Bank, 
Nicaragua Poverty Assessment 
–
Raising Welfare and Reducing Vulnerability, 
December 2003, p. i
 
2
The 2002 Joint IDA/IMF Annual Progress Report of the Nicaragua PRSP recorded major gains in 12 of 13 of the 
intermediate health indicators, and results ranging between 85% and 130% of the planned targets.  The only health 
indicators that did not improve was the prevalence of diarrhea incidence among children under 5 years.  
Page  2
actual and predicted life expectancy and in the case of infant mortality was second only to Costa 
Rica.  
 
Source: Todd & Hicks, 2003 
 
These recent advances hide, nevertheless, the fact that the poor have benefited much less than the 
wealthiest, as the table in annex 1 shows. Notwithstanding its relatively good recent record of 
improving health, Nicaragua continues to confront many of its traditional health challenges. The 
disease profile of Nicaragua is one of a country in the early phases of the epidemiological 
transition. Infectious diseases remain major health concerns, and the illnesses of early 
childhood
—malnutrition, acute respiratory and diarrheal diseases in particular—continue to 
dominate the public health agenda. Moreover, unless current trends are accelerated, it is unlikely 
that Nicaragua will achieve the MDG goals of reducing maternal mortality and the prevalence of 
chronic malnutrition. Maternal and child health care, therefore, remain at the top of Nicaragua’s 
human development agenda. In addition, the overall fertility rate—one of the highest in LAC at 
3.2—is a particularly pressing social problem, and the adolescent pregnancy rate is second to 
none in the region.
3
Current 
Goal for 2005 
PRSP 2015 
Indicator 
Status (2001)
Target  
On track 
Target
Likelihood of Achieving 
Infant Mortality 
31 
32 
Yes 
20 
Possible 
Child mortality 
40 
37 
Partly 
24 
Possible 
Maternal mortality 
125 
129 
Yes 
40 
Unlikely 
Chronic Malnutrition
17.8 
16 
Yes 
7
Unlikely 
Global Fertility Rate
3.2 
Source:  PRSP, LSMS 2001, PRSP First Progress Report, Poverty Assessment 2003.
 
With respect to health financing, the level, stability and composition of MOH financing are 
causes of concern. From 1999 to 2003, MOH expenditures constituted 14% of total national 
budget expenditures (i.e., national funds plus external financing). While the level and sources of 
3
A
2001 national survey found that 25% of women aged 15-19 had already been pregnant at least once. 
Life Expectancy and Infant Mortality in Central America: 
Actual and Predicted Levels Based on Worldwide Analysis of the
Relationship Between GDP per Capita and These Two Indicators 
Life Expectancy, 2000 
Infant Mortality, 2000 
Percent 
Percent 
Country 
Actual
Predicted
Difference
Actual
Predicted
Difference
Costa Rica 
78 
72 
8% 
10 
18 
-43% 
Panamá 
75 
69 
7% 
20 
25 
-21% 
Nicaragua 
69 
61 
13% 
33 
52 
-37% 
Honduras 
66 
61 
8% 
35 
51 
-32% 
El Salvador 
70 
67 
5% 
29 
32 
-10% 
Guatemala 
65 
66 
-1% 
39 
37 
6% 
Page  3
MOH financing were erratic over this period,  in real, absolute terms, its 2002-2003 total was 8 
percent less than its 1999-2000 total.  
 
MOH is heavily dependent upon external financing (both grants and loans). From 1999 to 2003, 
external financing grew in real terms from US$22.9 million to US$30.8 million.  Although the 
level of external financing has fluctuated annually, it has generally grown 
—from 18% of total 
MOH expenditures 1999 to 24% in 2003— at the same time that the level of real financing 
provided by national funds has fallen by an annual average of 7% since 1999. In effect, the 
Government of Nicaragua (GON) has substituted external funds for national funds to finance 
MOH expenditures. The composition of MOH resources is also a cause of concern as the 
allocation of public expenditures by department is generally inversely related to the severity and 
level of poverty (SANIGEST 2004: 90). A critical challenge for Nicaragua and the international 
community is to modify existing patterns of public health expenditures so that they no longer 
reinforce, but help address Nicaragua’s unequal health and poverty profiles.  
 
Although the coverage of the health program of the Nicaraguan Social Security Institute (INSS) 
has expanded by one-third over the past five years, it still provides coverage for only 9% of the 
population, the lowest proportion of any Central American country.  Moreover, 70% of its 
beneficiaries are from the wealthiest 40% of the population. With private health insurance 
covering a mere 1% of Nicaraguans, the poor are forced to rely overwhelmingly on a 
combination of Ministry of Health services and self-treatment. Out-of-pocket purchases of 
medicines have grown steadily in recent years and now constitute 49% of all health expenditures.  
 
In summary, high fertility rates, child malnutrition, poor health and lack of financial protection 
against illness still prevail for significant groups of the population, and all of them are strong 
determinants of the poverty trap for today’s and tomorrow’s poor in Nicaragua. Existing patterns 
of public expenditure mirror these inequalities, posing a challenge for public policy to reverse 
these inequities as a principal tool for combating poverty and fostering human development. 
 
The GON is well aware of many of the shortcomings of the health sector, and over the course of 
the last five years has accelerated the pace of reform. A few years ago it passed the General 
Health Law (2002) and its Regulation Decree (2003), important steps in the modernization and 
institutional capacity-building of the MOH. These legal instruments set up: (i) the organization 
of a national health system based on two financial regimes, contributory and non-contributory, 
their respective benefit plans, institutional responsibilities and financing mechanisms; (ii) the 
principle of separation of functions, reinforcing the MOH stewardship role and the instruments to 
do so (i.e.: national health plan, quality assurance mechanisms and sector planning mechanisms), 
(iii) a decentralized model of governance and management; (iv) the basis for devolution of power 
to the Autonomous Governments of the Atlantic Coast; and (iv) the consideration of the special 
needs and conditions of the indigenous and afro-descendant population.  The Ministry is now 
implementing these reforms and developing its institutional capacity to address the sector 
challenges, with the financial support of an IDB loan and the IDA’s APL first-phase credit (NI-
3084).    
 
The other key health care organization in the country, the Nicaraguan Social Security Institute 
(INSS), has also made notable advances since 2000. In 2002, it separated financing from the 
Page  4
management of its health and pension regimes. Between 2000 and 2004, it expanded the number 
of beneficiaries of its health program by 32%, and introduced a new Elderly Health Program 
(EHP) for its retired affiliates. The INSS, which buys all medical services for its affiliates from 
private providers (EMPs), has also devised and implemented a provider certification system, and 
has reviewed the methodology for fixing the capitation payment paid to the EMPs. 
 
Looking ahead, the GON has agreed with a group of significant donors, including IDA, to 
increase their effort to coordinate and harmonize official development aid by sponsoring a series 
of Sector Wide Approaches (SWAp) in a number of sectors, including health. Nicaragua has 
done a substantial amount of work in health policy reform that serves as a strong foundation for 
the proposed SWAp: in October 2004, the GON  released an Operational National Development 
Plan to update the 2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP); in mid-2004 the MOH 
released the ten-year National Health Policies and its accompanying 2004-2015 National Health 
Plan (NHP), outlining how it plans to achieve the health goals set out in its PRSP; in November 
2004 the MOH released a draft Five-Year Implementation Plan (FYIP) detailing how it would 
operationalize the aforementioned NHP. The fundamental goal set up by the FYIP is the 
increased access of the poor people of Nicaragua to effective maternal and child health care. This 
would be achieved by expanding access to a package of basic health services (BPHS) in the most 
deprived and rural municipalities of the country through a combination of performance-based 
incentives to public providers and purchasing of services from private providers. In December 
2004 the MOH convoked an extraordinary session of the SILAIS and local area health networks 
(
municipios
)
to present to them the NHP and national priorities for the FYIP and to assist them in 
establishing their annual operating goals for each year in the FYIP, and thereby produce a 
detailed, bottom-up plan for programming and budgeting the FYIP.   
 
These national plans have also received the backing of the international financial community. All 
of the cooperating partners in the SWAp have agreed that the FYIP will serve as the operational 
framework for the SWAp, thereby ensuring that the SWAp will be fully aligned with 
government policy. By its being the based on the product of the still nascent local annual 
programming system, it is hoped that the SWAp will help to nurture the further development of 
local level planning and programming capability, and thereby help to institutionalize this new 
approach and with it, the effective decentralization of the MOH. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The overall APL program development objective, as approved by the IDA Board in 1998, is to 
improve health outcomes in Nicaragua, particularly among the poor, by raising the efficiency, 
effectiveness, equity and sustainability of the Nicaraguan health system. In this second phase of 
the APL, IDA financing will contribute, alongside funds from the MOH and other SWAp 
partners, to improve maternal and child health in the poorest municipalities of Nicaragua, 
concentrating roughly half of the Nicaragua’s poor. By improving the health status of this 
population, health inequities should reduce, as shown by disparities in maternal and infant 
mortality indicators across geographical areas and income groups. These goals will be achieved 
through the operationalization of three strategic objectives, as set up in the sector Five-Year 
Implementation Plan, namely: (i) the extension of coverage of  a package of basic health and 
Page  5
nutrition services to the poorest areas of the country, via the new integrated model of health care; 
(ii) the physical and functional strengthening of the health service facilities network, focusing on 
maternal-infant care, so as to provide a seamless path of essential services in the target areas; and 
(iii) institutional strengthening and capacity-building, concentrated specifically on developing 
the purchasing, monitoring and evaluation capacities of the MOH, its leadership role to 
enhanc
ing donors’ alignment and harmonization, and the management capacity of MOH 
decentralized units and Autonomous Governments of the Atlantic Coast. 
 
A
common set of results indicators accompanies the FYIP and will be closely monitored by the 
MOH and the SWAp partners. These indicators, along with its corresponding targets, are fully 
described in annex 3 and include the following:  
 
Results related to improved access to maternal and child essential services in targeted areas:  
1. 
Beneficiaries of the expansion of essential health services 
2. 
Institutional delivery rate  
3. 
Child immunization rates  
4. 
Coverage of early prenatal care 
5. 
Coverage of complete prenatal care  
6. 
Utilization rates of safe family planning methods  
7. 
Additional number of INSS beneficiaries  
Results related to strengthening the health services network in targeted areas: 
8. 
Number of pregnant women admitted to Womens Centers (
Casas maternas
)
9. 
Hospital admission rate 
10.  Number of hospitals with critical path services certified by MOH 
11.  Percentage of hospitals satisfying targets set in their service agreements 
12.  Percentage of maternal deaths audited  
Results related to improved sector stewardship and institutional strengthening 
13.  Percentage of MOH budget transferred to local systems as purchase of services 
14.  Percentage of MOH budget directly administered by the Atlantic Regions Autonomous Governments. 
15.  Reduction of the inequity gap in per-capita public health expenditure in the targeted areas 
The Government of Nicaragua’s 2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which is the 
basis of the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Nicaragua, emphasizes the 
need to improve public sector management and the coordination of foreign aid. The health 
SWAp supports three of the PRSP’s four pillars by targeting vulnerable populations, focusing on 
institutional strengthening and capacity-building and encouraging greater and better human 
capital investment in the poor. In particular the SWAp will primarily seek to improve the 
maternal and child health of a significant proportion of the Nicaraguan poor and, therefore, also 
reduce the rural-urban health inequities. Easier and more affordable access to health, nutrition 
and family planning counseling and services will, in turn, positively contribute to reduce child 
malnutrition, protect household income and facilitate women’s empowerment. The SWAp will 
also improve the Nicaragua health sector effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability by 
improving the MOH’s stewardship role, fostering alliances with private (NGOs and others) and 
official institutions (INSS), broadening the capacity of decentralized units to manage resources 
and evaluate performance, and streamlining the contribution of external donors. Each of these 
high level development objectives are fully aligned with the NHP and its FYIP as well as IDA’s 
APL program development objectives. 
 
Page  6
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The primary rationale of the CAS is to support the GON’s development goals as outlined in the 
PRSP. The Adaptable Program Credit (APL) for the health sector modernization project, 
approved by the Board in 1998, supports three of the four 2001 PRSP pillars: (i) greater and 
better investment in the human capital of the poor, (ii) better protection for vulnerable 
populations, and (iii) good governance. The most significant IDA support to Nicaragua consists 
of the poverty reduction support credits (PSAC and PRSCs). These credits contain health 
conditionalities that are fully aligned with the PRSP. This proposed new SWAp would build 
upon the work accomplished under the first phase of the adjustable programmatic loan (APL), 
concluded in December 2004, and directly contribute to the goals established in the PRSP 
synergistically with the PRSCs.  
 
The Bank’s involvement in the SWAp builds upon its previous work in Nicaragua by broadening 
the policy dialogue on poverty reduction and promoting further reforms in the modernization of 
the Nicaraguan health sector. Since September 2003, the Bank has been working closely with 
MOH to develop the NHP and the FYIP.  The first phase of the Bank’s APL health sector credit 
has satisfactorily achieved its development objectives. The MOH—with the support of the World 
Bank and the IDB through the health modernization project—has developed sound institutional 
tools and regulations to improve the Ministry’s regulatory and management roles, as described in 
the previous section. Extensive evaluations of most of the first phase interventions supported by 
the APL, together with cross-evaluations with other donor’s programs and past national health 
policies, have been carried out over the past two years. The results of these evaluations have 
been used to inform new sector policies and have assisted the MOH in making strategic 
decisions about how best to harmonize donor contributions and design the SWAp
4
.
The vast 
majority of the SWAp’s planned activities consists of efforts to scale-up activities that were 
pilot-tested, evaluated, deemed successful, and (generally with some modifications) worthy of 
replication and expansion.   
 
While the health modernization program, has made significant advances, much work still needs 
to be done to improve the health status of the population and the country’s health system. 
Inequity persists and the health reform and decentralization agenda is not yet completed.  In 
addition, there is a dire need to improve accountability, transparency and governance throughout 
the sector.  
 
The Bank’s expertise in SWAps, as well as its extensive experience with designing effective, 
pro-poor health strategies, complement the contribution of the other stakeholders in the SWAp. 
Moreover, the Bank has accrued important experience in the health sector of Nicaragua working 
closely with other donors and financiers. The Bank has played a pivotal role encouraging the 
MOH’s to develop a more cohesive sector policy and institutional structure, thereby promoting 
the Ministry’s institutional effectiveness and enhancing its leadership role in coordinating 
donors’ aid. The Bank is also part of the Budget Support Group (BSG) in Nicaragua. The BSG, 
4
A
summary table of the evaluation results is presented in Annex 1-A. 
Page  7
along with all the bilateral donors financing the health SWAp, has jointly agreed on a 
harmonized set of policy actions and results (including health) that will serve as key inputs to the 
SWAp. 
4. Description 
 
The Five-Year Implementation Plan (2005-2009) provides the strategic framework for all SWAp 
partners to join efforts to achieve the stated results. While the FYIP has a national scope and 
incorporates all MOH activities, it has been agreed with the MOH that the FYIP, and its 
consecutive annual action plans, will clearly identify a subprogram of activities aimed 
specifically at achieving the targets and strategic initiatives set out hereafter. The two first 
strategic objectives within this program are aimed at the 76 municipalities with the greatest 
health needs. As long as new funds are available or new partners become SWAp donors, this list 
of municipalities or priority activities may increase accordingly. Therefore, the FYIP sets up the 
strategic actions to achieve the following three strategic objectives:
 
Strategic Objective 1: Extension of health care coverage to the poorest population 
(US$36.5 
million) 
 
Extension of the Basic Package of Health Services to vulnerable rural populations at the 
community-level   
 
A
package of basic health care services (BPHS), focusing on maternal and child health, will be 
offered to the most deprived population of Nicaragua. Vulnerable populations and localities for 
the extension of coverage have been identified based on the following criteria: current access to 
health services, poverty level, and health status. A multiple-tier targeting process has been used. 
First, the 12 most vulnerable departments have been identified, using the targeting criteria 
explained in annex 4. Second, 76 municipalities within the 12 most vulnerable departments have 
been selected using the same criteria. In total, these localities account for 47% of the poorest 
Nicaraguans. Third, within these 76 municipalities, the rural and indigenous communities will be 
prioritized. The formulation of the basic health care services package (BPHS) further focuses this 
intervention by targeting specific diseases and health problems, maternal and child health along 
with a few other prevalent diseases of the adult, that have their greatest impact on the poor. In 
summary, it is estimated that the BPHS will be extended over the next five years to 472,500 
inhabitants living in the most deprived municipalities of the North and Atlantic Coast of 
Nicaragua.  
 
The new integrated health care model (MAIS), developed by the MOH to integrate different 
models of health care delivery and management implemented in the country over the past years, 
will be used for the expansion of the BPHS. The MAIS already drafted by the MOH includes all 
the necessary technical instruments to implement this strategy. It sets up the delivery model 
(including consideration of different delivery modalities according to social and geographical 
characteristics of the population to cover), the benefits plan, focalization mechanism, contracting 
and payment instruments, social participation strategies and supervision and monitoring 
arrangements). Itinerant health service delivery teams will be organized for reaching the poor 
living in the most remote areas of the country. The BPHS will be tailored, in content and 
delivery modalities, to the special conditions of the indigenous and afro-descendant population. 
Page  8
These accommodations are currently been working out between the MOH and the tho 
Autonomous Governments of the Atlantic Coast, where most of these groups live.  
 
The delivery of the BPHS will be achieved through formal contractual agreements with non-
institutional healthcare service providers (NGOs), incremental performance-based payments to 
public providers, and expansion of social security coverage 
to new beneficiaries. The SWAp’s 
proceeds will finance the purchasing of the package of basic services for maternal and child care, 
including outreach strategies, necessary transportation, essential drugs, nutrition advice, IEC 
activities, reproductive and sexual health services and limited essential health services for adults. 
In the case of private providers, a per capita payment, complemented with performance 
incentives, will be passed on to them, based on a competitive tendering process. In the case of 
public providers, the supply of the BPHS to the targeted population will become part of the 
service agreements between the MOH and the respective SILAIS and public local providers, 
transferring performance-based incentives, calculated to cover the marginal cost needed to 
achieve the expansion of the BPHS targets. All these contracting arrangements already exist, but 
will be adapted and scaled up with the SWAp funds.  
 
Strengthening planning, accountability and social participation for the delivery of the BPHS  
 
The SWAP’s resources will fund technical assistance necessary to develop institutional capacity 
at the SILAIS and local provider levels (
municipios
)
for implementing the expansion of the 
BPHS. While local providers will progressively take up broader management responsibilities for 
the delivery of services and management of resources, SILAIS will develop a supporting role to 
the MOH central purchasing unit, helping out in the planning, formulation, monitoring and 
supervision of annual health plans, service contracts with private providers and management 
agreements with public local providers. This capacity building support activities will entail 
capacity assessment, training, development and implementation of contractual, management and 
clinical instruments, and information technology necessary to effectively plan for the expansion 
of services, improve and control quality, manage resources at local level, and monitor results.   
 
Both public and private health care providers will work closely with the communities, jointly 
identifying the community’s health needs, and programming community and health sector 
actions to address their health problems. This work will constitute the MOH-community 
interface portion of the Ministry’s ongoing decentralization efforts. To date, MOH’s 
decentralization has been exclusively an intra-institutional process. A key element of the process 
has been the recent development of local MOH networks’ (
municipios
)
annual programming and 
budgeting exercise, whereby they develop annual operating plans, which then aggregate up to the 
SILAIS level to become the heart of the SILAIS annual plan. The SWAp will help taking this 
process to the next step, and will incorporate private sector itinerant health teams and 
representatives of civil society (as well as MOH’s hospitals) into the planning, monitoring and 
evaluation/feedback cycle. The civil society will play an active role on auditing the actual 
delivery and quality of services to the community. A community committee will advise and 
ultimately endorse the provider annual working plan and periodically (e.g., quarterly) provide 
monitoring feedback to the provider and the supervisory SILAIS. 
 
Page  9
Strategic Objective 2: Strengthening the network of services in targeted areas to support the 
implementation of the BPHS 
(US$27,8 million) 
 
This component of the SWAp is designed to support the extension of coverage, and to 
complement its MCH-related activities. Activities in this area are aimed at creating an effectively 
structured and functioning referral system that will provide a more complete continuum of MCH 
care to rural communities, while increasing their access to secondary care and improving the 
overall quality of health care.
5
Bringing such a system to fruition will require improving three 
different types of facilities that comprise the MCH delivery system located in the same 
geographical areas selected for the expansion of essential services: 
 
Women Homes  (Casas Maternas) 
 
Casas Maternas
 (CMs) are low cost, assisted living arrangements that usually have around 10 
beds and are located next to a hospital. The physical facilities are usually contributed by the 
community. Communities get also involved in co-financing and managing these homes. The 
CMs are designed to lodge pregnant women living in remote villages in the last few days of their 
pregnancy, to ensure that the women have ready access to an institutional facility when labor 
work starts. Women usually stay in these facilities for a few days after delivering. Services 
provided in these 
Casas
 also expand to provide family planning and child nutrition counselling, 
as well as other education activities for empowering women. Selected communities will be 
trained and supported to manage and maintain their CMs. It is envisaged that 50 additional units 
will be added to the existing network of CMs. Funding will be provided for the rehabilitation of 
existing premises or (on an exceptional basis) the construction of new homes, the acquisition of 
basic equipment and furnishings for the homes, timebound (and declining) recurrent costs, 
activities aimed at empowering women staying in the homes, and the promotion of family 
planning.  
 
Primary Health Care Centers  
 
This part of the program is aimed at improving the infrastructure and renovating existing primary 
health care centers in the targeted geographical areas and ensuring they are sufficiently equipped. 
The centers will also be stocked with the medical supplies required by the essential package of 
health and nutrition services (BPHS). A needs-assessment will be prepared as part of the pre-
investment phase of the SWAp. 
 
Hospitals  
 
The twelve district hospitals in the areas targeted for extension of coverage will be rehabilitated 
and equipped with medical and industrial equipment necessary to improve the quality and safety 
of the maternal and child care critical path. Specifically, investments will revamp emergency 
5
It is expected that the extension of primary care through the BPHS will increase the demand for and referrals to the 
secondary care.   
Page  10
rooms, operating rooms, obstetric and paediatric wards and related ambulatory facilities, support 
clinical services (image and lab departments). The SWAp will also improve other essential 
general hospital facilities, including laundry, steam and water, catering and waste management. 
It is expected that, although the investment will prioritize the maternal and child care critical 
path, it will also have a positive spill over impact on hospital services rendered to other patients 
by upgrading these general and support hospital facilities. Investments in physical infrastructure 
(remodelling only) and equipment will be accompanied by investments to improve the 
management of those facilities. The SWAp will build upon the experiences of the health 
modernization project (APL first phase) and will extend and replicate the support given to the 
first phase pilot hospitals in order to improve the management capacity and systems in the ten 
targeted hospitals. The management support strategy includes direct technical support to the 
hospital directors by itinerant management support teams, under the supervision of the MOH 
central Hospital Directorate, training, information technology and implementation of institutional 
management systems (i.e.: MOH information, procurement and financial management systems). 
Special support will be given to the preparation and implementation of hospital waste 
management plans, complying with applicable national standards and policies acceptable to IDA, 
control of hospital infectious diseases and implementation of quality improvement strategies. 
 
Strategic Objective 3: Improving Stewardship, Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization 
(US$ 17,8 million) 
 
The MOH recognizes that to fulfil the vision set forth in the NHP and effectively lead the SWAp, 
it will need to undertake a variety of institutional  reforms. These include: (i) strengthening the 
Ministry’s management capacity necessary for planning, contracting and supervising the 
expansion of the BPHS (e.g., programming and planning, information and reporting) and the rest 
of institutional fiduciary systems (financial accounting, procurement, auditing) so the SWAp can 
progressively adopt these national systems instead of donors’ procedures; (ii) strengthening the 
GON’s capacity to monitor and evaluate health sector performance, efficiency and equity; (iii) 
supporting the MOH’s coordination role as executor and overseer of the GON’s population 
policy; and (iv) developing a strong purchasing function at the MOH, including the identification 
of beneficiaries for the expansion of essential services, adjusting payment mechanisms, 
overseeing service quality, contract design and monitoring. 
 
The FYIP also includes under this objective activities to advance the decentralization policy 
established by the National Health Policies. In particular, the SWAp will support  
decentralization by: (i) providing advocacy and technical assistance to municipal government to 
undertake public health responsibilities
6
;
(ii) supporting the devolution of responsibilities to the 
two Autonomous Governments of the Atlantic Coast over the organization and management of 
their regional health systems; (iii) offering technical support to MOH department offices 
(SILAIS) to carry out their annual planning and contracting functions; (iii) decentralizing 
management of the MOH human resources function to the SILAIS and hospitals. The over-riding 
goal will be to improve the performance of MOH—increasing its effectiveness, efficiency and 
6
A
recently passed Law by the National Assembly requires the central Government to transfer an increasing 
proportion of the GON’s budget to municipal governments. It is expected that municipal governments will take up 
some public health responsibilities nowadays delivered by the MOH. But this assumption of functions requires 
raising awareness and capacity in these institutions to execute those responsibilities. 
Page  11
the degree of equity in access to and expenditures on health care
—by improving incentives and 
accountability. 
 
Finally, the FYIP calls for an expansion of the INSS coverage among targeted groups of the 
population (increasing the coverage age for INSS affiliates’ dependants, informal workers, 
retired). It also expects INSS to affiliation fraud among formal workers. The SWAp will support 
this strategy by providing the INSS with technical assistance to carry out feasibility studies, pilot 
projects, and strengthening the corporate responsibility to steward and oversee the provision of 
its disease and maternity plan.    
 
5. Financing 
SOURCES OF FUNDS. FIVE YEAR PLAN. US$ 
Partner External 
Funds 
Counterpart 
Funds 
Total 
IDB 30 
3 
33 
Sweden 20 
 
20 
IDA 11  1.1 12.1 
The Netherlands 
10.6 
 
10.6 
Finland 6.5 
 
6.5 
TOTAL 78.1 
4.1 
82.2 
6. Implementation 
 
Partners in the SWAp are Sweden, The Netherlands, Finland, USAID and the IDB. Some 
bilateral donors (Finland, Sweden and The Netherlands) will provide unrestricted budget support 
to the MOH. Sweden will be contributing US$20 million over the next five years. Netherlands 
will contribute US$2 million in 2005 and continue inputting at least similar amounts on an 
annual basis. Finland estimates its contribution will be US$6.5 million  between 2005 and 2009. 
The IDB has approved in December 2004 a  $30 million performance-based credit to be 
disbursed over five years. The IDB credit, although using IDB procurement procedures, 
resources the same five-year action plan, disburses against a subgroup of the SWAp’s result 
targets, relies on the MOH institutional structure to execute the project, and will be jointly 
supervised with the rest of the SWAp partners. USAID, another big player in Nicaragua health 
sector, has been participating in all the SWAp preparation missions and although unable to pool 
funds with the rest of the donors, has committed to also support the FYIP, and particularly those 
activities aimed at institutional strengthening and sector governance. The total SWAP envelope 
for the five-year timeframe amounts to US$ 82.2 million, including MOH counterpart funds for 
the IDB and IDA credits but not USAID support, which has not been valued yet.  
 
The principles of the SWAp planning, executing, monitoring and coordination mechanisms are 
contained in a Code of Conduct that has been agreed between the MOH and the SWAp partners. 
Those principles will be further detailed in a Memorandum of Understanding that the MOH will 
agree with the SWAp partners before credit effectiveness. As outlined in that Code of Conduct 
(already signed by all SWAp partners), and the drafted MOU, the MOH will lead the 
implementation and execution of the SWAp. The 
Mesa Sectorial de Salud
 (MS), comprised of 
Page  12
all cooperating agencies in the health sector and all the health-related government agencies, will 
be the principal forum for cooperation, information exchange and dialogue for the overall health 
sector development. The MOH and all the SWAp partners will constitute a 
Coordinating 
Committee
 in charge of overseeing the planning and execution of the FYIP and its annual action 
plans, and reviewing periodically (at least biannually) the attainment of its targets. Technical 
support and internal coordination within the MOH will be provided by a SWAp Technical 
Secretariat directly reporting to the Minister of Health. The director of the Technical Secretariat 
will be appointed by the Health Minister, under TORs, employment conditions and appointment 
subjected to approval by all the SWAp partners.  
 
The Health Planning and Development General Directorate (DGPD) will be the starting 
purchasing entity for the SWAp funded expansion of services, until the MOH sets up a devoted 
purchasing unit within its formal structure. This office will purchase services from public and 
private providers to achieve the expansion of services objectives with the SWAp defined funds. 
It is also the MOH’s intent that the purchasing unit to be created will gradually take over the 
purchasing of heath services throughout the country using MOH resources through the annual 
management agreement signed with all SILAIS, local providers and national hospitals. The 
DGPD will also be responsible for the annual planning and budgeting of the FYIP. These 
functions, purchasing services and planning the FYIP, will be done with the operational and 
technical support of SILAIS. The Financial Administration General Directorate will be 
responsible for budgeting, accounting and reconciliation matters, providing support to the DGPD 
on mid- and short-term financial planning of the SWAp. The DGPD will in turn provide 
technical support to the SWAp Technical Secretariat on other SWAp execution matters.  
 
Flow of Funds
The MOH will set up a special fund, the Nicaragua Health Fund (FONSALUD, by its Spanish 
acronym), that will pool funds from all the SWAp donors, except USAID. The MOH will, 
however, be able to track the source of funds using SIGFA current capabilities. FONSALUD 
will resource all the SWAp activities included in each Annual Action Plan. The MOH will 
purchase the BPHS from private providers through service contracts, and will transfer payments 
to them according to the payment mechanisms established in the contract (partly on a prospective 
per capita basis, partly on a retrospective performance-based mechanism). The MOH will also 
enter into management agreements (
Convenios
)
with the 12 targeted SILAIS, specifying at least 
the number of beneficiaries for the expansion of the BPHS coverage, performance targets by 
municipality and the additional payments (performance-based incentives) established to 
complement the fiscal resources allocated to those SILAIS for achieving the expected results. 
The funds to be transferred to the SILAIS, accompanying the management agreements, will 
include the performance-based payments for public providers, and funds necessary to carry out 
the activities programmed for the strengthening of the health service network at local level 
(strategic objective 2 in the Annual Action Plan for that SILAIS). Funds will be retained and 
executed centrally by the MOH to carry out capacity-building activities at central level (Strategic 
Objective 3), and for purchasing works, goods and services for which the procurement plan 
requires central bidding.  
 
Page  13
IDA’s funds will be disbursed periodically to FONSALUD upon approval of the corresponding 
annual action plan, based on financial management reports (FMRs). FONSALUD, in turn, will 
transfer funds to each targeted SILAIS through a budget line which has been already 
incorporated into the 2005 MOH budget for purchasing of services. Fiduciary arrangements for 
the operation of FONSALUD are described in annexes 7 and 8. 
 
An Operational Manual for the purchasing of the BPHS with FONSALUD funds will be 
prepared by the MOH before credit effectiveness. More information on the institutional 
arrangements is described in annex 6. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The MOH has demonstrated its commitment to health sector reform and modernization through 
its performance in the first phase of the APL credit and throughout the preparatory phase of the 
SWAp. During these stages, the MOH has adopted a new regulatory framework, organizational 
and functional structure through an incremental process of institutional modernization.  
 
The layout of the health sector strategy for the next ten years has been released and endorsed by 
the GON and the SWAp partners, after thorough consultation. Most of the FYIP strategies have 
proven successful, though will be continuously adjusted and improved according to experience 
accrued with the implementation of the SWAp. In summary, the essential groundwork for the 
implementation of the SWAp has already been completed.  
 
The sustainability of the SWAP relies mainly on the financial capacity of the MOH to keep up 
with the running cost of delivering extended services once the FYIP is over. This seems feasible, 
though, because: first, no major new infrastructure will be undertaken in the five-year 
implementation plan; second, it is expected that the GON’s fiscal situation will improve through 
HIPC debt relief, forecasted economic growth, and increased external budget support, making 
more likely the GON’s injecting of new funds into the MOH budget. To that end, one of the 
SWAp target results requires from the GON at least maintaining the per capita MOH 
expenditure, in real terms, over the SWAp life cycle. Third, through improved MOH purchasing 
and stewardship capacity over the health sector, it is expected that allocative efficiency of GON 
and external funds for health will improve, therefore making the sustainability of increased 
access to essential services more affordable for the GON. Finally, there is an implicit agreement 
among external donors that support to the Nicaraguan health sector will continue as long as its 
poverty rates remain high and the health sector performance improves over time.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The FYIP supported by the SWAP scales up the successful programs piloted under the APL first 
phase, based on feedback obtained from evaluations of its components. This is particularly 
evident in three elements of the strategy. First, the development of a unified, institutionally 
endorsed delivery and management model for primary health care was prompted by the existence 
of at least 14 different donor-sponsored primary health care programs. The Integrated Healthcare 
Page  14
Model (MAIS) developed by the MOH as preparation for the SWAp integrates already piloted 
successful programs, like the community nutrition and growth program (PROCOSAN), sexual 
and reproductive health services programs and the contracting out of essential services from 
NGOs for remote communities. The MAIS has been designed after the results of an evaluation of 
the mentioned 14 PHC projects and a
n
evaluation of the health modernization project’s 
components.  
 
Second, in view of the fact that evaluations of the 
Casas Maternas
 show that these facilities have 
made a substantial contribution to reducing maternal mortality and improving other reproductive 
health indicators in their areas of operation
7
,
the FYIP seeks to expand the existing network of 
CMs. Based on findings from evaluation reports, collaboration between the CMs and local 
community service organizations and the integration of the CM network with the formal health 
care system, which were found to be successful elements of the strategy, will be pursued. 
 
Third, lessons from the operation of the Safe Maternity and Infancy Fund (FONMAT) highlights 
the positive results of using performance-based payments to public providers for increasing the 
production of services. Former experience in expanding services in Nicaragua, and elsewhere, 
show that supply and demand interventions are equally and simultaneously needed. The 
Nicaragua SWAp will apply specific incentives to public and private providers for increasing 
performance, and at the same time will improve the health services network and community 
infrastructure, and mobilize health professionals to work in underserved communities.  The key 
results identified regarding the implementation of the Health Sector Modernization Program 1
st
.
phase, as well as lessons drawn from other relevant evaluation studies undertaken recently are 
presented in annex 1-A.  
 
Furthermore, the SWAp collects the knowledge and expertise of several key bilateral and 
multilateral donors with substantial historical experience in the Nicaraguan health sector and 
different comparative advantage and expertise. It also builds upon the relationships established 
during IDA’s previous collaboration with the IDB, NORAD and NDF in the supervision and 
evaluation of the Health Sector Modernization Project. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
]
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
]
7
The Nicaragua
 Casas maternas
 initiative has been showcased and recognized as best practice by the World Bank 
Gender Network in 2004. 
Page  15
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
]
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
National Health Policies 2004-2015 
National Health Plan 2004-2015 
Five Year Implementation Plan 
Modelo de Atención Integral de Salud (MAIS) 
Code of Conduct (last draft) 
Poverty Assessment 
Análisis de situación del sector salud (MOH 2004) 
Financial Analysis of the Nicaragua Health Sector (Avendaño) 
Financial Analysis of the Nicaragua Health Sector (Meerhoff, 2004)  
Evaluation of PHC projects (Bitran y Asociados) 
Evaluation of the MOH Strengthening Component under the PMSS (Fernando Marin, 2004) 
Evaluation of the PMSS Hospital component (Carlos Martín 2004) 
Evaluation of the PHC Component of the PMSS (Roser Fernandez, 2004) 
Evaluation of Casas Maternas (Maria Elena Ruiz Abril) 
Evaluation of the National Health Policies 1997-2002 (Sanigest)   
ENDESA 2001 
Public Expenditure Review 2001 
Social Assessment 
Environmental assessment 
Costing of the FYIP (Fabio Duran) 
Definición del Paquete Básico de Servicios de Salud a proveer por el Ministerio de Salud bajo el Régimen 
no contributivo (Fabio Durán 2004) 
Nicaragua Salud y Equidad (Magdalena Rathe, Dayana Lora. Fundación Plenitud, 2003) 
Royal Netherlands' Embassy, Nicaragua Strategy Document: Health sector Development (2003) 
IDB Loan proposal for Strengthening Maternal and Child health in Nicaragua. A Performance based loan. 
December 2004.
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Jesus Maria Fernandez Diaz 
Title: Sr Public Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-4806 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: jfernandezdiaz@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  16
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
