Document of
The World Bank
FOR OF1FICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14608
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3403-MOR)
MARCH 30, 1995
Natural Resources and Environment Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Afripa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Moroccan Dirham (DH4)
Appraisal Year                US$1.00 = 8.0 DH
Implementation average        US$1.00 = 8.9 DH
Completion Year average       US$1.00 = 9.5 DH
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AER:           Agriculture Expenditure Review
ASAL:          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BEMC:          Budget Execution Monitoring Committee
CED:           Comptroller of Commitments and Expenditures
CGED:          Comptroller General of Commitments and Expenditures
CMV:           ORMVA Extension Centers
CNCA:          National Agricultural Credit Bank
CT:            DPA Extension Centers
DGF'l'l:       Directorate of Land Surveying and Titling
DE:            Directorate of Livestock
DEAR:          Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Research
DEFCS:         Directorate of Forestry and Soil Conservation
DER:           Directorate of Rural Equipment
DPA:           Provincial Agricultural Directorate
DPAE:          Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs
DPV:           Plant Production Department of MAMVA
DPVCRTF:    Directorate of Plant Protection
DVRA: Directorate of Extension and Agrarian Reform
ENA:           National College of Agriculture
ENFI:          National School of Forest Engineers
ERR:           Economic Rate of Return
FDA:           MAMVA's Technology Development Program
GOM:           Government of Morocco
IAV:           Hassan H Agricultural and Veterinary Institute
ICR:           Implementation Completion Report
INRA:          National Institute for Agricultural Research
MARA:          Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reformn
MAMVA:         Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Operations
M&E:           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF:           Ministry of Finance
MOI:           Ministry of the Interior and Information
MTASAP:        Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
OED:           Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank
O&M:           Operations and Maintenance
ORMVA:         Regional Agricultural Development Office
PERL:          Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan
PPAR:          Project Performance Audit Report
SAL:           Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR:           Staff Appraisal Report
MAMVA replaced MARA in 1993.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
[LOAN 3403-MOR]
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PR EFA C E      ....    .............. ...................................    i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................                                                              ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
1.   Project Identity ...........................                                                       1
2.  Background .........................                                                                1
3.      Project Objectives and Description  .........................  1
4.      Project Formulation and Design Considerations  ..          ......................... 4
5.      Project Implementation. ...............  ........................ 5
6.      Pioject Results and Impact .....   .    , r      , r                       e . . . .            6
7,   Project Sustainability ............... .                                                          10
8. Bank Performance.                              .                      ............  10
9.  Borrower Performance. ..............  11
10.  Lessons Learned ............... . .                                                               11
11. Project Relationship.. .............  11
12.  Project Documentation and Data.                      .               ...........  11
PART II - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................ . . . 12
Table 1.        Summary of Assessments .....   .  . ... .....................  ....   . 12
Table 2   Related Bank Loans.. ................  13
Table 3.   Project Timetable ............ ..................  14
Table 4.        Project Costs .              . . . . . .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Table 5.        Project Financing  . ......  ......               .......................  15
Table 6.        Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation  ................ 16
Table 7.        Total FDA Investments by Category  ,             ............................. 18
Table 8.        Total FDA Physical Achievements by Category  ...................... 19
Table 9.        Studies Included in the Project .........           ........................ 20
Table 10.       Comparison of Cumulative and Actual Loan Disbursements  ....               .......... 21
Table 11.       Comparison of Loan Disbursements by Category  ..................... 21
Table 12.       Reconciliation of Legal Covenants Relating to ASIL  ................... 22
Table 13.       Bank Resources: Total Staff Inputs  ............................. 23
Table 14.       Bank Resources: Analysis of Review Missions  ...................... 23
Appendixes:   A.        Mission aide-memoire
B.      Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their    I
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.        l



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
[LOAN 3403-MOR]
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
in the Kingdom of Morocco for which Loan 3403-MOR in the amount of US$50 million was approved
on September 17, 1991 and made effective on March, 24, 1992. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1994,
six months behind appraisal schedule. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on
May 17, 1994.
The ICR was coordinated by Michael Nightingale with input from involved task managers in the
Natural Resources and Environment Operations Division of the Maghreb and Iran Department and
reviewed by Rene Vaurs, Country Officer, and Rend Costa, Projects Advisor.
Analysis for this ICR was undertaken together with Government representatives during Bank
missions in October/November, 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower's views
are reflected in the ICR and noted in the mission's aide-memoire (30 November 1994).






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
[LOAN 3403-MOR]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL) was the first World Bank sectoral investment
loan to Morocco. It aimed to support a two-year time slice (1991-1992) of Government's total agriculture
investment program, estimated at appraisal to be US$640 million. In addition to financing an estimated
8 percent of the program, the ASIL was designed to build on institutional changes initiated under two
ASALs in 1985 and 1987, to promote essential policy reform measures aimed at improving the investment
process, and advancing key sector policy issues, especially in the livestock and irrigation subsectors.
2.    Agreed priority components from Government's investment program were targeted for financing
under ASIL; these included developments for: irrigation; area development; crop diversification; forestry;
livestock; research, training and extension; agricultural education; and planning. The main part of the
investment program was designed to promote the following: better soil cultivation, seed bed preparation
and crop management through use of appropriate tractor-drawn farm implements; more efficient small-
scale irrigation; improved crop storage; improved livestock production; fruit tree planting as part of crop
diversification measures; and land improvement,
3.    A second part of the investment program involved sponsoring the Agricultural Development Fund
(FDA). This was designed to provide grant assistance to farmers for specific, small-scale investments,
selected on the basis of agreed guidelines and aimed at improving current farming techniques and
technologies.
4.    The package of policy measures and studies supported by the project included: reform of the
investment process through streamlined budgeting, speedier disbursement of funds, and better monitoring
of expenditures; institutional strengthening through improvement of MAMVA's staffing and structure,
and implementation of a system of objective criteria for selection of investments by MAMVA; reforms
aimed at privatizing some livestock services and veterinary medicine practices; and improved recovery
of irrigation water charges. The studies included: the impact of FDA operations, the execution of the
MAMVA budget, and audit of MAMVA project accounts.'
Implementation Experience and Results - Summary of Project Achievements
1/    The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) was reorganized into the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agricultural Operations (MAMVA) in 1993; for ease of reference, the
acronym is used throughout this report for both titles.



- iii -
5.     The project's investment program  largely achieved its objectives relating to irrigation
improvement, crop production and diversification, forestry, improvement of livestock productivity, crop
protection, training and research, and land improvement (Table 6). Analysis of FDA investments shows
a distinct swing from small to large loans between 1991 and 1993; this implies that assistance to small
farmers and cooperatives declined.
6.     Project Costs and Financing. Actual total project costs are estimated at US$442.0 million,
compared with the appraisal budget of US$640.0 million. The difference was due to lower levels of local
expenditure and slow progress in foreign investments for related developments. Total costs for the main
categories were generally below budget, especially for irrigation developments. Expenditures for FDA
investments exceeded appraisal estimates. Actual loan disbursements for project activities indicate that
civil works and reforestation were one-third higher than budget, while consultant costs were about half
of the budget estimate (Table 11). The total costs were financed by the Government and other projects
(US$392 million) and the Bank loan of US$50 million - that was totally disbursed. Contributions from
beneficiaries for FDA investments amounted to an estimated additional US$113 million.
7.     The proiect's policy reform program generated benefits in several areas: long-term privatization
plans were implemented for veterinary services and for increasing livestock productivity of cattle and
sheep; Government submitted an action plan in October, 1991 for increasing cost recovery for veterinary
services, and a livestock sector strategy study was carried out in 1992. Milk prices were fully liberalized.
An action plan for water charges was submitted in March, 1992, in conjunction with the Large Scale
Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan No. 2656-MOR). These actions, together with the preparation of
standard procurement documents were already in progress at the time of loan effectiveness.
8.    The study for improving the quality of MAMVA staff was intended to focus on: (i) reducing the
number of unqualified, lower level staff; (ii) raising the technical competence of higher level staff; and
(iii) developing a career stream. In fact, MAMVA was reorganized without a comprehensive study. This
resulted in many of the organizational changes, e.g., forming a single department to link research,
extension and training operations and another for rural engineering operations; and creating a monitoring
and evaluation system for agricultural operations. While the creation of monitoring and evaluation
capacity is good, it is unclear whether the creation of supervisory structures will contribute to raising the
efficiency of MAMVA. At the same time, the lack of action for rationalizing staff numbers or improving
their technical competence continues to impair MAMVA's effectiveness. As a result, services remain
generally inefficient, especially for research and extension, and the high cost of MAMVA operations is
being perpetuated. However, both the appointment of a strong Director for the Directorate of Planning
and Economic Affairs (DPAE) and the transfer of the role of delegating budget funds to DPAE helped
to speed up commitment of funds.
9.     The project-related reports were completed behind schedule, mainly due to inadequate
interministerial communication and paucity of information. The FDA impact study highlighted the need
for improving operational efficiency in terms of productivity, technology transfer, and equity issues. The
report process underscored the need for stronger portfolio management, especially between FDA and
CNCA. The budget execution study identified procedural issues for improving budget preparation and
commitment of funds, procurements, and expenditure of funds; it made proposals for closer collaboration
between MAMVA and the Ministry of Finance in order to tackle these issues, and it prepared a Budget
Execution Manual. The first audit of project accounts was delayed due to omissions that necessitated
a supplementary study; this highlights the need for the Bank to give greater emphasis to the implications
of a decentralized government procurement and accounting system when designing a sectoral investment



- iv -
loan. The final audit of project accounts was received on time (12/94) and was significantly improved
in quality. Project progress reports were generally satisfactory.
10.   Procurement performance was fraught with difficulties arising from the fact that the loan was
financing expenditures of established lines of Government's investment budget both at central and
provincial levels. As a result, there were a large numbers of entities involved. Furthermore, project
expenditures were part of the fiscal budget activities for which existing Government procurement
procedures were followed. Although the latter were approximately similar to the Bank's procurement
guidelines, there were some areas of difference, e.g., public opening of contracts, and procedures for
hiring consultants. A study undertaken in the course of the project identified the anomalies and agreed
on a common procurement procedure to be followed for Bank-assisted projects.
11.   Loan disbursements were behind appraisal schedule throughout the life of the project, due in large
part to the lack of a coordinated, inter-ministry accounting system for tracking expenditures, which tended
to delay the process of withdrawal requests. This was compounded by the uncertainty of project staff
and officials regarding Bank procedures concerning procurement and disbursement for loans involving
fiscal budget lines, In order to ameliorate the situation, a workshop was held in Rabat to reinforce Bank
procedures, and Bank and Government worked together to implement a system of standard bidding
documents for Bank projects in Morocco. However, only partial application had been achieved at loan
closing, due to reticence from other sector ministries and the Ministry of Finance.
12.   Project risks. Three factors were identified at appraisal which could potentially impede the
smooth achievement of the project's major objectives. One concern was the need to ensure timely and
adequate provision of counterpart funding; this was countered by specific fiscal budget measures. The
possibility of delays in loan disbursements was identified, yet despite the emphasis placed by the Bank
on improving budget monitoring procedures and standardizing the bidding process, the problem was not
entirely avoided. Other risks concerned the possibility of the entrenched bureaucracy resisting project
changes and ignoring stimuli designed to improve its performance.
13.   Bank Performance. The project would have benefitted from more detailed analysis of investment
performance during Bank review  missions.  Instead, the emphasis was on policy aspects and
implementation of standardized procedures for procurement and disbursement. A total of eight review
missions were held (Table 13) - including the procurement training workshop; however, a significant part
of the mission time in 1992/3 was spent on preparing and appraising ASIL II.
14.   Borrower Performance. For overall implementation, the project would have benefitted from more
intensive coordination by the DPAE, both within MAMVA and with other ministries concerned. In
general, for aspects where the project objectives were closely shared with the Bank, Government pursued
them methodically, e.g., the implementation of a plan for the privatization of veterinary medicine practice
and livestock services. Where views on project objectives were less uniform between the Bank and
Government, delays were experienced. This indicates a need for more detailed exchanges during
preparation and appraisal and for more consistent communication and coordination between Government
agencies and between Government and the Bank during implementation.
15.   Proiect Outcome. The project is rated as satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned



16.    The outcome of the ASIL endorses the merits of a broad based investment instrument linked with
policy adjustments. However, it also illustrates the difficulty of pursuing a broad range of policy
objectives in the context of the diverse, national investment portfolio for which operational procedures
already exist. The experience suggests that the project objectives could have been achieved if the
investments had been restricted to components related to the targeted policy adjustments. Other lessons
include: (i) the need for more broad based and analytical focus in project supervision; and (ii) the need
to develop precise procedures for monitoring development investments.
17.   Implementation of the ASIL allowed the Bank to apply its broad experience in investment loans
and associated policy design, thereby helping Government to streamline its sector investment program.
This, in turn, provided for better focus on priority agricultural investment allocations and for introducing
the concept that ensures that investments address specific criteria relating to economic viability,
environmental impact and quality effects. Furthermore, Government was able to take advantage of the
Bank's expertise in the area of institutional reforms, such as initiating improvements in the efficiency of
budget execution and streamlining MAMVA's investment process. The ASIL was effective as a vehicle
for initiating reforms on sensitive issues in such key subsectors as land use policy, agricultural education,
and livestock, and for helping to consolidate reforms commenced under other projects, e.g., irrigation,
forestry, and research & extension. It was less effective in achieving adjustments relating to improving
institutional operations. In addition to continuing improvements in investment procedures learned from
the ASIL, the policy aspects and proposals contained in the project-assisted studies should be further
developed under ASIL II (Ln. 3765-MOR).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
[LOAN 3403-MORI
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. Project Identity
Project Name             Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL)
Loan No.                 3403-MOR
RVP Unit                 MNA
Country                  Kingdom of Morocco
Sector                   Agriculture
Sub-sectors              Agriculture, Irrigation, Forestry, and Livestock
2. Background
2.01   Sectoral context. The Government estimates that 49 percent of Morocco's 25 million people live
in rural areas. Agriculture is important in the economy, not only for contributing 16 percent to the
country's GDP (trade 16%; mining and industry 25%; services 33%; buildings and
transport/communication 10%) but, more particularly, because it provides employment for 40 percent of
the labor force and generates 30 percent of export earnings. Of the 28 million ha of agricultural land in
Morocco, only 9.2 million ha are cultivable, leaving 18.8 million ha in semi-arid or mountain regions
suitable for grazing. Of the cultivable land, some 50 percent receives an erratic rainfall of up to 400 mm
per annum, and is restricted to low value cropping systems. The remaining land benefits from good but
unreliable rainfall. Some 80 percent of irrigable land, roughly 1.3 million ha is now irrigated. Cereals
account for almost 80 percent of the harvested area and 33 percent of the gross value of production. The
remaining 20 percent of cropland produces fruit, olives and oil seeds, vegetables and forage. According
to statistics collected in 1993, the livestock sector represents 2.9 million cows, 16.3 million sheeps, 4.8
million goats, and 80,000 camels.
3. Project Objectives and Description
301   Project Objectives. The project followed two Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loans (ASAL
I, Loan 2590-MOR [1985], and ASAL II, Loan 2885-MOR [1987]) that supported improvements in
economic policy. On this basis, the ASIL aimed at improving the efficiency of the Government's
investment program in the agriculture sector. It was designed to finance selected priority line items in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform's (MARA/MAMVA)2 investment program for 1991 and
1992 and was accompanied by a series of key policy reforms.
2/    The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) was reorganized into the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agricultural Operations (MAMVA) in 1993; for ease of reference. the
latter acronym is used throughout this report for both titles.



-2-
3.02 The allocation of investments under the ASIL was decided on the basis of a detailed Agriculture
Expenditure review, carried out by Government and the Bank in 1990, together with extensive analyses
and discussion. Historically, Government investment levels were low, due to cumbersome procedures
and the fact that funds included in the budget were frequently not available on a timely basis.
Investments covered by the program were selected on the basis of a set of criteria agreed upon by
Government and the Bank, including: an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent, financial viability
for participating farmers, positive environmental impact, and social and human resource development
effects.
3.03   The key reforms in MAMVA's investment procedures were aimed at improving the effectiveness
of investments as well as fostering Government's emerging policy for providing infrastructure and
services to stimulate private sector initiative and improve private sector productivity. Specific reforms
included budget execution, project selection and institutional strengthening within the Ministry. To
counter weaknesses in MAMVA's investment procedures and the unreliable flow of funds into the
agriculture sector, reforms of the investment process were deemed essential to ensure efficient program
financing. The main constraints were identified during project preparation and an action plan was
adopted (para. 4.02).
3.04   Project Description. The project was designed to be implemented over a two-year period and
consisted of the following actions:
I. Investment Program.
3.05   The action program for investments involved two parts, the first related to expenditures for
development of priority projects, and the second related to grant-aided expenditures through the
Agricultural Development Fund (FDA) for individual farmers' developments - mostly involving farm
mechanization and irrigation equipment.
Project Related Investments
3.06   The project provided financing for the following key activities:
(a) forestry component, to improve and manage forestry and other natural resources, including
actions for replacing 7000 ha of degraded forest land, for protecting watersheds from
erosion, and for strengthening the policies and capabilities of agencies responsible for
natural resource management.
(b)  A livestock production improvement component, to develop an action plan for a detailed
veterinary health program, to implement a livestock genetic and nutrition improvement
program, and to develop a livestock marketing system -- all oriented to private sector
operations.
(c)  A land improvement component, including a program for updating the national soils map
and cadastre, for providing information systems, carrying out topographical surveys and
for implementing Government's land consolidation programs.
(d)  An institutional component, including a program to strengthen MAMVA's organization and
management capabilities in the areas of sectoral planning and policy development.



- 3 -
3.07   It also provided financing for developments in the following subsectors, in order to consolidate
actions initiated under other projects:
(a)  A  small/medium-scale  irrigation improvement component, involving construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of small- and medium-scale irrigation schemes; research and
testing of irrigation equipment; and provision of equipment, materials and training for
specialist MAMVA staff.
(b)  A large-scale irrigation improvement component, including construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of 485,000 of large-scale irrigation (LSI) schemes; restructuring LSI
organizations; and strengthening operations of the regional agricultural development offices
(ORMVA) by implementing a management information system (MIS), and providing
equipment, materials and training for ORMVA staff.
(c) A crop production and diversification component, including three main programs: (a) for
improving organization and technologies for land reclamation and development, range
development, infrastructure development, land consolidation and restructuring; and for
promoting improved crop rotation practices, development of fruit tree plantations, crop
storage, and agro-industrial activities; (b) for enhancing the efficiency of agricultural
extension services; and (c) for improving pest control, seed and plant quality, and quality
control of agricultural inputs and products.
(d)  An agricultural trainin2 and research component, including training and research programs
and the development and utilization of agricultural labor market information systems.
3.08   The project also supported the Agricultural Development Fund (FDA) through its program for
providing grants to farmers, covering set percentages of the costs of specified types of investment,
selected on the basis of guidelines agreed between Government and the Bank, and designed to improve
current farming techniques and technologies.
11. Policy Reforms.
3.09   To complement the basic investment objectives, a series of policy reforms was introduced.
(a)  Strengthening MAMVA's budgetary procedures so as to (i) facilitate the availability of
budget resources to MAMVA agencies responsible for implementing the investment
program; and (ii) improve the efficiency of budget resource use.
(b)  Agricultural reform  programs designed to improve the efficiency of agricultural
development through adopting revised policies and applying more timely implementation
procedures;
(c)  Strengthening of the livestock sector: (i) by identifying and granting animal health care
zones to private sector veterinarians; (ii) by arranging for associations of stockbreeders to
take over responsibility for managing artificial insemination and cattle breeding stations;
and (iii) through the liberalisation of milk prices. A livestock sector study was financed
to define long-term development strategy.



- 4 -
(d)  Institutional studies, to improve MAMVA's operations and human resources utilization, as
well as to streamline MAMVA's budget procedures and an audit of MAMVA's accounting
procedures.
(e)  An impact study, to evaluate the relative merit of the agricultural development fund (FDA)
grant-assisted investment program.
3.10  In addition, project actions included measures for improving the recovery of water charges. This
involved intensifying the program, initiated under the Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project,
involving a program monitoring charges for beneficiaries of large-scale irrigation (LSI) schemes, and a
program to accelerate the recovery of water charges and to eliminate arrears of payments by water users.
4, Project Formulation and Design Considerations
4.01   Project Origin and Preparation. The proposal for the ASIL evolved from the close collaboration
between the Bank and Governient during the review and reshaping of Government's public investment
program in the agriculture sector. In particular, ASAL I and ASAL II and the Agriculture Expenditure
Review provided a solid foundation for the project, together with the analysis of Government's proposed
agricultural investment program. From this basis, ASIL was designed to support MAMVA's 1991 and
1992 investment programs, estimated at US$640.0 million, by drawing on the Bank's experience in
investment reviews and investment loans, and to assist Government in implementing a sector investment
program, The ASIL thus became a vehicle for the Bank to support broad-based agricultural investments
focused on priority subsectors and in the context of specific criteria, such as economic rates of return,
environmental impact and quality effects. Furthermore, Government was able to take advantage of the
Bank's expertise in the area of institutional reforms, such as improving the efficiency of budget execution,
and streamlining MAMVA's investment process. Finally, the ASIL was designed to encourage reforms
on subsector issues, such as land use policy, livestock and forestry; as well as supporting further
adjustments in strategies relating to research and extension, agricultural education and irrigation
operations.
4,02   Perceived Risks.  Although both ASAL I and ASAL II improved Government's planning
procedures during the mid-1980s, a serious potential constraint, specifically tackled at appraisal of the
ASIL -- was the risk of under funding, which had plagued earlier projects. Therefore, actions for
ensuring timely and adequate provision of funds was to be ensured under the ASIL by the design of
procedures to streamline the preparation and administration of MAMVA's budget. The problem of slow
disbursements. experienced by previous projects, was also highlighted during the appraisal mission and
the Bank emphasized the need for introducing an efficient project accounting system, standardized bidding
documents, and improved budget monitoring procedures.  It was further proposed at appraisal to
strengthen the agricultural investment selection process by applying a systematic approach to investment
programming and by building on the quantitative methodologies for screening and ranking potential
projects. At the same time, it was recognized that funding under ASIL was not incremental but provided
some assurance for financing key lines of Government's investment program. A risk identified on the
institutional side was the possibility of the entrenched bureaucracy resisting project changes and ignoring
innovations designed to improve its performance.
5. Project Implementation



5.01   Project Management. MAMVA was responsible for project execution, with the relevant technical
departments ensuring planning and organizing day to day implementation of specific components and the
Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE) was responsible for overall project coordination.
An experienced planning officer from DPAE was appointed as project coordinator and an experienced
officer was appointed to coordinate the activities in each technical department.
5.02   The project became effective on March 24, 1992 (six months after Board approval), by which
time, the draft budget for MAMVA had been agreed upon and work had begun on the budget execution
study. Action plans for improving the recovery of irrigation water charges and for the privatization of
animal medicine practice, both of which were conditions for loan effectiveness, were also prepared and
agreed upon. Generic procurement documents had been agreed upon and were introduced at the time of
loan effectiveness.
5.03  Investment Program. The action programs related to the project description involved nine sub-
sectors and, in each one, specific investments were earmarked for ASIL financing. The objectives of
these investments are summarized in the Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (Table
6), together with a reconciliation of actual achievements.
5.04   Project Expenditures and Financine.  The estimated total project cost is US$442 million,
equivalent, compared to the two-year budget of US$640 million - estimated at the time of appraisal. The
reason for this difference was the reduction in local expenditures and delays in anticipated foreign aid
investments for associated developments. Because of delays in project start up, project investments for
the 1991 budget were entirely covered by retroactive financing. This totaled US$29 million, financed
from the Bank Loan and US$194 million, financed from the fiscal budget. For 1992, foreign costs
financed from the Bank Loan totaled US$31 million, while local expenditures were US$188 million.
5.05   Table 11 provides a reconciliation of actual loan disbursements relative to the estimates at
appraisal. On the different categories, loan expenditures on goods and FDA investments were in line
with appraisal estimates. However, for civil works and forestry activities, loan financing exceeded
appraisal estimates by 40 percent and 30 percent, respectively. Conversely, financing for consultant
services and training were only half of the appraisal estimate.
5.06   Procurements and Disbursements Procedures. Despite the fact that DPAE, MAMVA and MOF
agreed to implement standardized procurement documents, their adoption was delayed: (i) due to
disagreement from other ministries and the central procurement coordination (Commission des marches);
and (ii) due to the fact that following the decentralization of MAMVA's operations, it was necessary for
all directions and provinces concerned to be fully informed on the procurement procedures. The latter
was not done and it caused problems with following up on disbursements. Also, proposed procedures
for procuring consulting services were never adopted, and the standard Government system was applied.
5.07   Table 10 summarizes the record of loan disbursements. Problems were experienced with the rate
of loan disbursements throughout the project implementation period. This was due partly to the nature
of the project, involving financing a number of budget lines, with expenditures frequently involving a
majority of the 30 provinces, and partly due to confusion over procedures. Although the Government's
administrative procedures were adequate for general fiscal operations, they were not suited to generating
the precise information and supporting evidence required by the Bank for disbursements. In particular,
for contracts requiring Bank review (i.e. contracts above the threshold specified in the Loan Agreement),
supporting documentation needed to be seen by the CED (Contr6le des engagements de depenses). At



- 6 -
the outset, the provincial MOF offices were responsible for preparing statements of actual expenditures
by budgetary line item. However, due to the decentralized procurement and disbursement procedures,
individual contracts could not be isolated and it was, therefore, difficult to reconcile payrnents with
contracts that required prior review by the Bank. Furthermore, the finance department of DPAE was
responsible for ensuring that the necessary supporting documents were provided. It proved impossible
to reconcile these parallel systems, which both contained information needed by the Bank. Consequently,
the Bank and Government agreed to implement a system of standard bidding documents which would be
distributed directly to the MAMVA departments and organizations concerned in a bid to accelerate the
flow of information and funds. However, as this was achieved only at the end of project implementation,
it waits to be adopted under ASIL II.
6. Project Results and Impact
Physical developments
6.01   Project Investments. The reconciliation of physical achievements, shown in the Key Indicators
for Project Implementation and Operation (Table 6) indicates that the subsector investment objectives for
project related developments were largely met. However, the absence of monitored information means
that it is not possible to assess whether the efficacity of these investments was improved due to the
project. For succinct components, e.g., irrigation or forestry developments, it should have been possible
for the project operation to have improved the development approach both in a technical sense and by
comparison between regions or provinces. By such a procedure, it might have been possible for project
actions to have assisted in raising the profitability and sustainability of developments.
6.02   Rural Development Fund. Total expenditures for FDA investments, at US$34 million equivalent,
were 25% higher than the SAR budget. Furthermore, lack of records on individual investments made
it impossible to determine whether the actions of the project resulted in any improvements in the
technologies concerned or in the methods of addressing farmers' needs. The breakdown of FDA
investments by category (Table 7) indicates that the largest share invested (DH 93.6 million, or 55 %) was
spent on irrigation technology (especially for drilling and equipping of wells), with significant investments
in tractors and farm equipment (DH 25.7 million, or 15%), land improvements (DH 9.9 million, or 6%),
production and handling of cereal and forage seeds (DH 23.0 million, or 14%), freight for exporting
flowers (DH 9.3 million, or 5%), and for livestock production facilities and equipment (DH 5.4 million,
or 3 %).
6.03   The analysis of FDA lending shows an increasing trend from "upstream" subsidization of farmers'
purchases (en mont - reimbursement of farmers; total 1991:12%; 1993:23%) compared to "downstream"
subsidization (en aval reimbursement of traders; total 1991: 88%; 1993: 77%). Possibly, this trend
indicates a shift to increasing assistance to larger farmers and, in view of the significant amounts of
subsidy involved, it is important to have a detailed analysis of the types and amounts of components to
be assisted by the FDA. Assistance under the FDA is valuable for encouraging a fledgling industry, like
freight for exportation of flowers; or for encouraging the adoption of new technologies, e.g., in crop and
livestock production. The initial selection of FDA assistance should depend on clear evidence that the
technologies involved are financially viable and, therefore, once the techniques have been established,
there should be a clear mechanism for phasing out subsidies. This would transfer the process to normal
market forces, while FDA would select and adopt other technologies for promotion through short-term
subsidy assistance. The development of a more precise review system will be a priority for ASIL II.



- 7-
Policy and Institution Reform Program
6.04   The proiect's institutional reform  program  highlighted  completing the reorganization of
MAMVA, a process that commenced under ASAL II. The ASIL included funding for a study to define
the services to be provided by MAMVA through the year 2000, to examine the organizational structure,
and to make proposals for raising the productivity of Ministry staff. This was to be achieved through:
(i) reducing the overstaffing at lower levels; (ii) increasing numbers and quality of technical and
professional personnel at higher levels; and (iii) developing a technical career stream. It involved
renaming the Ministry to become the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Operations (MAMVA).
In principle, this reorganization realigned some of the technical departments to better suit them to their
task.
6.05 In the event, there was no comprehensive study and the reorganization of MAMVA, that occurred
in 1993, resulted in the creation of: (i) a supervisory department for rural engineering, aimed at
strengthening operations in irrigation, water management, equipment, and land consolidation and
development; (ii) a department for organization of farmers; (iii) a division for monitoring and evaluating
MAMVA developments, with a cellule in each technical department; (iv) a personnel management
department; and (v) a council for organizing sector studies and strategy formulation. At the same time,
the coordination of research, training and extension operations was brought together into a single
department. However, in the process of absorbing the extension division from the previous Extension
and Land Reform Department, many of the experienced staff were lost (through promotion or transfer)
and MAMVA's ability to develop an effective extension service was weakened.
6.06   Theoretically, the personnel management department should be able to resolve the complement
and training needs. However, no significant reduction in numbers of personnel has occurred to date and
there is no clear strategy for raising the quality of technical personnel. The lack of action to reduce the
number of lower level, unqualified staff impinges directly the standard of field staff and is stalling
essential improvements in research and extension operations. Proposals for the creation of a technical
career stream have been completed by MAMVA; however, implementation of the proposals is stalled by
central civil service review. It is hoped that the reorganization of MAMVA line agencies that was
initiated in 1993 will be further consolidated under ASIL II.
6.07    Reforms in MAMVA's investment process.  The streamlining of MAMVA's investment
operations was a key objective of the project. This was achieved as part of the MAMVA reorganization
in 1993  A computerized budget monitoring system was developed and introduced by DPAE in 1993.
This was supported by a ministerial note from MAMVA detailing the procedures and timing for budget
monitoring activities. This is complemented by support from the MOF which is required to provide
timely information on the status of loan disbursements. The new procedures are proving effective: for
1994, the system accelerated the preparation of the budget. In addition, the follow-up procedures provide
the means for monitoring progress of expenditures at provincial level; however, these will need to be
strengthened both in MAMVA and MOF during implementation of ASIL I1.
6.08   MAMVA, along with most other ministries, suffered from severe constraints on its 1992 budget.
The uncertainty of adequate funding delayed the timing of the investment reform program; consequently
the efficiency of investment planning, organization and monitoring remain rather weak.
6.09   Livestock sector reforms. Long-term privatization plans were established for veterinary services,
leading to a projected coverage of over 70 percent of cattle and 50 percent of sheep by the year 2000.
The Government's action plan of October, 1991, undertook to implement a program increasing artificial



- 8 -
insemination and bull stations by transferring these activities to herders' associations. The realizations
in terms of artificial insemination improved by approximately 32% between 1991 and 1993, increasing
from 45,850 to 60,250 operations. At the same time, at cattle breeding stations, they increased from
15,800 servicing in 1991 to 22,600 in 1993. A livestock sector strategy study started in 1992, and was
completed in May 1994. This strategy analyzed key livestock systems, development of animal production
and result of achievements and, finally, defined the key lines for livestock production and measures to
be taken in the short and long term for a harmonious development of this sector. The liberalization of
milk prices was among the adopted measures; it came into effect in February 1993. A further
achievement, within the liberalization of foreign trade, was the introduction of a new system for the
pricing of imported livestock food, for instance corn and crab, in order to reflect world prices.
6.10   Irrigation water charge recovery. An action plan for improving the monitoring of large-scale
irrigation charges and for improving the recovery of irrigation water charges was prepared and submitted
to the Bank on March 24, 1992. These plans built onto changes initiated under the Second Large-Scale
Irrigation Improvement Project (LSII 2, Loan 3587-MOR); to date, there has been only slow progress
in enforcing user charges at levels sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs.
Project Related Studies
6.11   All of the project related studies were delayed, partly due to the absence of monitoring systems
and the consequential protracted processes for obtaining information from the relevant agencies, but also
due to miscellaneous logistical and communication problems. Nevertheless, the three major studies were
significantly completed by the end of the project, which indicates a recognition on all sides of the
importance of the project's objectives.
6.12   Budget Execution Study. The budget execution study was designed to identify key issues relating
to the execution of MAMVA's investment budget, as well as the subsequent commitment and expenditure
of funds, and to coordinate procurement procedures. It was also intended to research and prepare a
budget execution manual with the objective of promoting closer collaboration between MAMVA, MOF,
the Tresorie generale, and the Contr6le des engagements et depenses. The study was completed in April
1994 and a more analytical control system was introduced for 1995 operations. Training for accounts
personnel at all levels was initiated in August 1994. Actions under ASIL II will focus on improving the
monitoring and the flow of documents through administrative channels, in order to simplify procedures
and improve efficiency.
6.13   FDA Impact Study. The FDA impact study was originally a condition of project effectiveness
for the ASIL. It was intended to specify the types of investments that would be eligible for FDA funding
and to enable Government to analyze the types of farmer beneficiaries, in order to judge the effectiveness
of the program. The study was carried out by KLONIC Morocco, and it experienced frequent delays due
to lack of coordination and difficulties in obtaining information, notably from CNCA. Scheduled at
appraisal to be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1992, study results were not transmitted until
July, 1993, after having been made a condition for appraisal of ASIL 11. The final report drew several
conclusions concerning the effectiveness of FDA in terms of increased productivity, technology transfer,
and income distribution. There was strong resistance to employing international consultants to assist with
the studies. Had this not been so, the FDA study might have had more comprehensive analysis - drawing
on experience from similar organizations in other countries.



- 9 -
6.14   Several issues concerning the decision processes and implementation of the FDA grant program
will be followed up on under ASIL 11. These include: a) the need to develop a permanent monitoring
system of FDA investments to ensure that the following basic selection criteria are respected: (i) finance
for new technology, (ii) promote positive externalities, (iii) emphasize privatization of agricultural
services, and (iv) benefit small farmers; b) the need to define terminologies, such as. "new technology"
and "small farmers", more precisely, in order to prevent repeat investments by the FDA; and c) the
application of ceilings for both the total amount of FDA financing to be received by an individual and
on the number or amount of each type of investment to be financed. The establishment of a permanent
monitoring system was achieved in 1993 and should be of direct benefit to ASIL 11 operations.
6.15   Progress Reports. Two types of annual progress reports on the project were prepared by DPAE,
covering overall developments and details of FDA investments. The reports concentrated on physical
developments, but were generally of good quality and informative
6.16   Audit Reports. The first audit report of project accounts was due June 30, 1991, but was
submitted to the Bank in December, 1993. However, the auditors did not examine the individual invoice
records (pieces justificatives) required for payment of expenses incurred. In order to rectify this, the
Bank requested submission of a more comprehensive audit as one of the conditions for negotiating a loan
for ASIL II. This necessitated a supplementary audit, the results of which were transmitted to the Bank
on April 15, 1994, and accepted. The difficulties experienced in auditing routine Government accounts
highlight the need to be sensitive to governmental systems in the design of sectoral investment loans and
to maintain close liaison. The final audit report on project accounts, received by the Bank in December
1994, was comprehensive and satisfactory.
Economic Returns
6.17   Due to the nature and scope of the ASIL, no meaningful calculation of the project's economic
rate of return is possible. However, during implementation of ASIL II greater attention should be given
to assessing the ex-post economic viability of different types of investment compared with the estimates
contained in investment analysis forms used at the planning stage.
Environmental Impact
6.18   Project actions were reviewed at appraisal and were not anticipated to pose significant
environmental problems. MAMVA took the initiative in 1993 to create a special section that is charged
with identifying potential environmental hazards and proposing corrective actions. Establishment of a
system for monitoring the environmental impact of MAMVA's investments should be followed up on
under ASIL II, as an integral part of the system for assessing individual investment propositions.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01   A transparent and progressive budgetary process is paramount to achieving project objectives.
Budget cuts, such as were experienced in 1992, jeopardize MAMVA's ability to implement coherent
development programs, to improve the efficiency of its investment process, and to support reforms in the
budgetary process. Since 1994, MAMVA's streamlined budget procedures have been decentralized, with



- 10 -
each technical department preparing proposals that are coordinated by DPAE into an aggregate budget
for MAMVA. Because of serious finance resource constraints, since 1994, the Ministry of Finance has
imposed severe cuts in all ministries' budgets. This has occurred in several projects, irrespective of legal
commitments in project agreements. In this context, the provision of funds for ASIL I operations in 1994
were reduced after establishment of the budget. Greater attention should be given to establishing precise
budget resource availability before making any loan or project commitment.
7.02   The ASIL's institutional development component was designed with clear, monitorable targets
which could be closely supervised during implementation. Nevertheless, some resistance was encountered,
especially with respect to audits and the FDA impact study, both of which suffered from poor inter-
ministry communication and the paucity of information in various Government agencies. Furthermore,
the degree of delegation that exists from the central MAMVA departments to provincial departments was
underestimated at appraisal.  Although this is commnendable, it meant that some of the project's
institutional objectives were oversimplified and, therefore, were not fully realized during ASIL.
8. Bank Performance
8.01   The World Bank performance during project implementation was satisfactory, although the project
would have benefitted from greater regularity and focus in formal review missions. Successive Bank
review missions tended to focus on macroeconomic aspects and implementation of standardized
procedures for procurement and disbursement; whereas greater attention should have been given to
physical development achievements. A training workshop was held in September 1992 in order to
familiarize MAMVA personnel with the Bank's procurement procedures. Supervision missions occurred
at the rate of one per year in 1991, 1992, 1993, four in 1992, and two in 1994 (Table 14). However,
a high proportion of Bank Mission time in 1992 and 1993 was diverted to preparation and appraisal of
ASIL II, which might have reflected on ASIL performance.
9. Borrower Perfonnance
9.01   All aspects where the project objectives were considered important by both the Bank and the
Government were pursued methodically. An example is the development and implementation of an action
plan for the privatization of veterinary medicine practice and some livestock services. Where project
objectives were not considered with equal importance, problems and delays were experienced. This is
particularly true in the case of standardized procurements, the audit report and FDA impact study, which
all experienced delays.  The confusion in the audit process illustrates the need for increased
communication and coordination during preparation and implementation, both between Government
agencies and between Government and the Bank. Similarly, the lack of coordination experienced during
the FDA impact study was significant because the FDA represents 5 percent of MAMVA's investment
budget, and it also received some 37 % of ASIL investment financing. Consequently, the Bank attached
great importance to the timely execution of the impact study and to implementation of study conclusions.
Nevertheless, delays were experienced, especially in obtaining necessary information from CNCA and
in completing the study, which was transmitted to the Bank in July, 1993. Although both Bank and
Government are in agreement as to the study's importance, closer coordination with CNCA and with
project officials is important for effective monitoring of project progress.
10. Lessons Learned



- 11 -
10.01 The project performance experience illustrates the difficulty of pursuing several different
objectives, particularly in the context of such a diverse portfolio of projects. The experience indicates
that by concentrating on investments related directly to the targeted policy adjustments, the project could
have better achieved its objectives. Other lessons include: (i) the value of focus and continuity in project
review missions; and (ii) the need to increase efficiency of the budget monitoring process.
11. Project Relationship
11 01  The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower, represented by MAMVA, the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Economy, was a partnership at all times and the relationship between Bank
staff and project staff was consistently constructive.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The involvement of project authorities in the project's preparation and the fact that the general
principles and objectives of the project were well understood by all officials concerned, greatly
contributed to the understanding of the Staff Appraisal Report, which proved a useful guide during
implementation. At the same time, the paucity of data on the impact of project activities, which should
have been produced by an efficient monitoring and evaluation system, makes it difficult to carry out a
complete project impact analysis. The final audit report was received in December 1994.
m:\maroc\asil l\asil I icr .all



- 12 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3403-MOR)
Part II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial      Partial      Negligible  Not Applicable
(x)           (x)           (x)            (x)
Macro policies                       O              0            D             F
Sector policies                      0             Di            D              O
Financial objectives                 0               I             i a            I
Institutional development            0                           D O]
Physical objectives                  O0                            i O            I
Poverty reduction                     II n                        o       
Gender issues   O         0                         0I            0
Other social objectives                            E Li]          n] 
Environmental objectives                           L]             0             DI
Public sector management             n             0                            oI
Private sector management            29            noI
Other                               L]            Ci             O              O
B.  Proiect sustainabilitv              Likelv       Unlikely      Uncertain
0            Ei             FDI
Highly
C.  Bank performance                 satisfactor   Stisactory    Deficient
Identification                      Di             0              O
Preparation assistance               Ui            0             1D
Appraisal                            Di            0              a
Supervision                         lO             D              0
Hiphly
D.  Borrower performance             satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                         D              0              0i
Implementation                      D              0             Di
Covenant compliance                  0             0- i
Operation                                          E l           0
Highly                                     Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome            satisfactorv   Satisfactory Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
3i   0   a    o



- 13 -
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Loan\credit title                         Purpose                   Year of approval          Status
Loan 1602-MOR                  Improve rural income and sociaL well-            FY78          Closed 6/30/90
Fes-Karia-Tissa Project        being of 33,900 farm families in the
project area through improvements in
research, extension services, credit
and input suppLy, as welt as through
investments in infrastructure such as
roads, schools, heaLth faciLities,
and water supply.
Loan 2082-MOR                  Increase production of meat, miLk and            FY82          Closed 12/31/90
MiddLe AtLas-CentraL Area      cereals;  increase  rural  population
AgricuLturaL DeveLopment       and employment; reverse environmental
Project                        deterioration    of    forest    and
rangelands.
Loan 2253-MOR                  Support  development  of  small  and             FY83          Closed 12/31/92
Small and Medium Scale         medium  scale  irrigation  subsector
Irrigation Project I           through  creation/rehabilitation  of
five  schemes  and  preparation  of
second-stage project.
Loan 2367-MOR                  Increase agriculturaL production by              FY84          Closed 3/17/87
Fifth Agricultural Credit      increasing  agriculturaL  lending  of
Project                        CNCA.
Loan 2590-MOR                  Support first implementation phase of            FY85          Closed 12/31/87
AgriculturaL Sector            Government's    five   year    sector
Adjustment Loan I              adjustment program.
Loan 2731-MOR                  Increase agricultural  production by             FY87          Closed 3/31/90
Sixth AgricuLturaL Credit      increasing  agricuLturaL  Lending  of
Project                        CNCA.
Loan 2885-MOR                  Support second implementation phase              FY87          Closed 4/1/92
Agricultural Sector            of    Government's    medium-term
Adjustment Loan II             agricultural      sector    adjustment
program,    foster    efficient
agricuLturaL growth, contribute to
reduction    of    budgetary/capital
account deficits while minimizing
social costs of adjustment.
Loan 3036-MOR                  Support    reorganization    and                 FY89          Ongoing
Research and Extension         strengthening  of  nationaL  research
Project                        system  and  impLementation  of  T&V
extension.
Loan 3088-MOR                  Finance CNCA activities from 1990-               FY90          CLosed 12/31/93
Seventh AgricuLtural           1993.
Credit Project
Loan 2954-MOR                  Increase agricultural production                 FY89          Ongoing
Second Small and Medium        through rehabiLitation of small-
Scale Irrigation Project       medium scale irrigation schemes.
Strengthen institutional capabili-
ties relative to rehabilitation,
operation and maintenance of such
schemes.
Loan 2217-MOR                  Improve living conditions of ruraL               FY83          Closed 06/30/92
Oulmes-Rommani                 population & ruraL development
Agricultural Development       through increase of agricuLturaL &
Project                        livestock production in rainfed
zones & irrigation perimeters,
improve social & agr. services.
Develop forest resources by
improving siLvicuLturaL, harvesting,
management techniques, integrating
livestock & forest prod., providing
1 soil protection & erosion control.    I



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                      Date pLaned          Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                       5/16/90
Pre-Appraisal                                                                     5-6/90
AppraisaL                                                                        9-10/90
Negotiations                                                                    5/6-10/91
Board presentation                                            1/91               9/17/91
Signing                                                                          10/25/91
Effectiveness                                                1/23/92             3/24/92
Project completion                                           6/30/93             12/31/93
Loan cLosing                                                12/31/93             5/17/94



- 15 -
Table 4. Project Costs*
A-ppraisal estimate (USSM)*                 Actual (USS1)*
Local      Foreign                     Local      Foreign
Ita                   costs        costs        Total        costs        costs        Total
Small-scale irrigation                26           17           43                                     35
Large-scale irrigation              197           154          351                                    183
Crop production                      30            11           41                                     47
Extension                             13            8           21                                     15
Forestry                             31            13           44                                     34
Livestock                            20            10           30                                     28
Plant protection                       8            5           13      _                              12
Education                             12            8           20                              |      17
Research                               9           10           19                                     16
Technology development (FDA)          17           10           27                                     34
Planning                               3            4             7                                     5
Land policy                           14           10           24                                     16
TOTAL                  380           260          640          265         177           442
Table 5. Project Financing*
.__________________ _            RWAppraisal estimate (USSR)                 Actual (USSR)
LocaL      Foreign                     Local      Foreign
Source              costs        costs         Total       costs        costs        Total
Government                    237           153          390                                   232
Other donors                   74            56          130                                    100
WB, excluding ASIL             40            30           70                                    60
WB, ASIL                       29            21           50                                     50
TOTAL               380           260          640          265         177           442
*      Reconciliation of total investments by MAMVA in 1991 and 1992.
**      Exchange rate (average 91/92) DH8.6/US$1.0
***      Except for IBRD which is actual, these figures are estimates (pending provision of detailed figures by MOF).



- 16 -
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Key operating                            Appraisal Target                                      ActuaL
indicators in SAR
(a) SmaLL- and            Financing of the foreign exchange element          6,000 ha constructed in coordination
Mediun-Scale          of various activities, including                   with specific SMSI projects (SMSI I and
Irrigation            construction of 3,000 ha SMSI works/year;          11, Loan nos. 2253-MOR and 2954-MOR);
(SMSI)                feasibility/design studies; completion of          SMSI improvement in Saharan provinces;
Improvement           major works on Neckor Irrigation Scheme.           repair and maintenance of SMSI schemes;
feasibility studies for tranche 11 of
SMSI 11 Project; TopographicaL studies
of 14,000 ha; irrigation water tariff
studies for Loukkos, Gharb, TadLa,
Doukkala, Moulouya; purchase of
laboratory and hydrauLic equipment.
Delayed start up of Neckor Irrigation
Scheme prevented compLetion proposed
development.
(b) Large-Scale           RehabiLitation of infrastructure and               Provision of equipment and
Irrigation (LSI)      equipment in aLL ORMVAs except MouLouya;           rehabilitation of 28,000 ha;
Improvement           quick implementing, minor rehabiLitation of    consolidation works on 83,000 ha in
LSI schemes; major rehabilitation works in        Gharb and DoukkaLa; equipment and
DoukkaLa (Faregh) and TadLa (Beni Amir);          maintenance of putmping stations;
construction of new SMSI systems.                 equipment of 1,140 ha in Ouarzazate;
improvement of irrigation works in Beht,
Beni-Moussa and Tafilalet; provision of
electric, automatic and hydraulic
equipment for development of Boulaouane;
rehabiLitation of roads in Tadla and
Loukkos; studies for improvement of over
100,000 ha in Gharb and 220,000 ha in
TadLa; impLementation study in Loukkos
(20,000 ha); consolidation works in
Loukkos and Doukkala; pastoral
improvement and desertification
prevention in Tafilalet and Ouarzazate;
improvement of 10,500 ha in Loukkos.
(c) Crop Production/      (i) DPV program for land development,              (i) DPV AgricuLtural development
Diversification       improved approaches to construction of             projects covering nearly 2 miltion ha,
infrastructure, reestablishment of date           including:  Oulmes-Romani Project, 700
palm plantations in Ouarzazate/ Tafilalet,        ha of soil conservation works; Settat
continuation of 35,000 ha pilot land              Project, improvement of 500 ha of paths,
consolidation project, field studies to           elimination of 1,650 ha of jujube, and
extend project by 60,000 ha, and                  maintenance of 50 km of ruraL roads;
development, including conception/execution    Abda Project, construction of 375 ha of
of land consolidation program for 500,000         banquettes, planting of 600 ha of olive
ha long-term program scheduled for 1993;          trees, and pastoral improvement of 340
(ii) DVRA program for 3,000 ha of semi-           ha; Had-Kourt-Ouezzane Project, 860 ha
mechanical land destoning; (iii) fieLd            of soil conservation works, pastoral
studies, including improvement of terms and    improvement of 150 ha; Ghiss Neckor
conditions of employment for extension            Project, distribution of 27,000 fruit
staff; and (iv) DVCTRF program for                plants; free distribution of 41,000 date
acquisition of protective equipment,              palms in Ouarzazate, Tafilalet, Tata,
laboratory/technical equipment, modern safe    Figuig, GueLmim, Tiznit and Haouz,
appLication equipment for research, seed          distribution of oLive trees and
certification, pest controL (no                   maintenance of oLive plantations in
pesticides), and monitoring associated            mountain areas, promotion of improved
imports.                                          species of cereaLs, forages and
vegetables; (ii) field studies in Fes-
Karia-Tissa (354,000 ha), Meknes
(216,000 ha) and Khemisset (540,000 ha);
agroeconomic study of Khenfira (370,000
ha) and BensLimane (260,000 ha); field
studies covering 50,000 ha in Fes,
Benslimane, Khemisset and Settat;
further field studies covering 17,000 ha
in Fes, Tetouan and Khemisset; land
consolidation works in Taza (10,000 ha)
and Khemisset 10,000 ha); and (iii)
l _____________________    ___________________________________________        purchase     of  equipment.



- 17 -
Key operating                            Appraisal Target                                      Actual
indicators in SAR
(d) Forestry              Preparation of forest management plans             PLanting of 2,384 ha with
similar to Forestry 11 Project, planting of    eucalyptus/pine trees; execution of
eucalyptus/pine trees on 7,000 ha of              forest resource inventory; 1,068 ha of
degraded plantations/scrubland;                   forest improvement, treatment of 6,230
construction of fire-breaks and forest            ha; regeneration of 4,753 of natural
roads.                                            forests; production of 50 million
pLants; free distribution of 1.3 million
pLants and fixing of 258 ha of dunes to
combat erosion; planting of 100 ha of
fruit trees and treatment of ravines to
improve hillside basins; construction of
42 radio posts and installation of
electricity in 30 forestry buildings;
genetic improvement program for forestry
plants; research programs for various
species of trees; inventory and study of
Local flora and fauna.
(e) Livestock             Execution of livestock strategy studies;           Vaccinations realised under PISA I are
Improvement           provision of laboratory/technical equipment    the following: vaccination of
for Government's animal health program;           approximately 11 million sheep against
inputs for vaccination campaigns; funding         sheep-pox(covering 75%), vaccination of
and provision of equipment for genetic            800.000 sheep and cows against anthrax
improvement and animal feeding programs and    in coal areas,vaccination of 190.000
rehabilitation of priority rangelands.            veals against brucellosis (covering
73%),vaccination of 1.988.750 sheep
against enteritis in mountainous areas,
treatment of 500.000 sheep against
internal parasitic and 5 million mixed
breed against external parasitic, fight
against rabies by killing wild dogs,
strengthening of sanitary controls of
exported animal products, undertaking of
45.850 artificial inseminations for
miLking cows in 1991 and 53.490 in 1992;
15.800 and 16.000 coverings were carried
out in 1991 and 1992 respectively in
cattle breeding stations,the average
rate of financing of these programs by
PISA is 13% for 1991 and 1992; financing
of 23.230 of cattle, sheep and camels as
part of genetic breed improvement
through FDA for an amount of 13,89
million DHS; management and accounting
training for local cooperatives;
planting of 290 ha of forage crops in
Ait Zekri; pilot actions to combat
draught; provision of 320,000 tons of
food for animal feeding program;
exemption from import taxes for animal
feed; assumption by government of
transportation costs for animal feed.
(f) AgricuLturaL          Purchase of teaching equipment identified          Completion of 1986 restructuring of
Training/Research    during Agriculture Expenditure Review;              agricultural teaching program; 808
consultancy services to support DEAR              higher degrees awarded in 1992;
planning activities.                              provision of infrastructure and teaching
equipment; training program for MAMVA
personnel; institution of a job
competency training program;organization
of workshops in conjunction with FAO,
INRA, and UNICEF; study of professional
associations and rural cooperatives in
the ORMVAs; training of extension staff,
installation of 3,000 demonstration
kits; creation of 54 cooperatives,
totaling 2,261 persons; studies and
surveys on improvement of land policy;
provision of potable water to ruraL
cooperatives.



- 18 -
Key operating                            Appraisal Target                                      ActuaL
indicators in SAR
(9) Land Surveying!       Investments for more efficient use of              Opening of regionaL cartographic service
Titling               agriculturaL Lands; mapping and                    in Agadir, topographic service in
topographicaL work for Land consoLidation/        CasabLanca and construction of
cadastraL surveys.                                topographic service in Tangier;
construction and land conservation works
in SaLe and five provinces; acquisition
of Land for construction in four
provinces; estabLishment of 63,633 Land
titles and 214,534 property deeds;
survey of over 27,500 ha; cadastraL
survey of roughly 13,000 ha; nearly
8,000 ha of topographical works; four
urban plans; 100 topographic maps; 4
marine maps; 4 general maps and 7
specialized maps; carrying out of land
l__________________________________________         inventory.
(h) Planning              ConsuLtants and studies to improve                 Execution of FDA impact study and budget
agriculturaL pLanning and poLicies,               execution study; deveLopment of a
including agroeconomy, agricultural               medium-term agricuLturaL development
policies, monitoring of Plan                      pLan; evaluation studies of Fes-Karia
implementation, project M&E, FDA impact           Tissa and SMSI Projects; implementation
study, budget execution study.                    of pilot monitoring and evaLuation
system; studies on LiberaLization/
protection of agricuLturaL products,
cereal prices, agricultural policies,
MIS, and fruit and vegetable
commercialization.
Table 7. Total FDA Investments by Category
Category                      Amoumt (DH'OOO)  |     of total
Irrigated agriculture                                 89,525               52.9
Land improvements                                      9,917                5.9
AgricuLturaL production equipment                     25,653               15.2
Cereal seed production                                19,534               11.5
Air freight                                            9,306                5.5
Plant acquisition                                      6,278                3.7
AnimaL production intensification                      5,447                3.2
Forage Seed use                                        3,502                2.1
TOTAL                                                169,163              100.0



- 19 -
Table 8. Total FDA Physical Achievements by Category
Category/item                   Amount (DHOOO)    Quantity Achieved
Irrigated Agriculture Improvements
Equip./elec. for wells/drilling                     39,944              3,712
Wells drilled                                       29,848              2,775
Irrigation Equipment                                11,802            5382 ha
Water distribution                                   7,684             4530 ha
Other                                                  247             1892 ha
SubtotaL                                            89,525
Land Improvements
Plowing                                              6,116             2367 ha
Destoning                                            1,565             3089 ha
Subsoil plowing                                        209              532 ha
Land reclamation                                     1,440             1249 ha
Levelling                                               47              349 ha
Construction of stone banks and
correction of ravines                                320           38,943 ml2
Fruit/cereal banks                                     219               62 ha
Sibtotal                                             9,917
Agricultural Production Equipment
Tractors                                             8,575               288
Related equipment                                    8,494              1,072
Miscellaneous smaLl agric. equip.                    3,894             11,960
Economic equipment                                   3,748            28,783 m2
Harvesting equipment                                   941               109
SLbtotal                                            25,653
Cereal Seed Production
Transportation costs                                 8,588            654,423 q
Recurrent costs                                      1,374            161,493 q
Carrying costs                                       7,352            163,388 q
Discounts                                            2,220              2,220 q
Su.btotal                                           19,534            981,524 q
Forage seed use
Suibtotal                                            3,502           18,883.68 q
Air Freight
SubtotaL                                             9,306           5,048 tons
Plant Acquisition
Subtotat                                             6,278             438,000
Animal Production Intensification
Genetic improvement                                  3,067
Cattle                                                             2,153 head
Swine                                                              1,498 head
Breeding buildings                                   1,629            30,970 m2
Breeding equipment                                     205             5,394 m2
Feed storage bins                                      381               687 m3
Silos                                                    13              50
Dairies equipped                                       151               53
Subtotal                                             5,447
TOTAL                                                169,163             _
Figure does not include miscellaneous expenses (DH 47,040.00) or laboratory analysis costs (5,485.50).



- 20 -
Table 9. Studies Included in the Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at            Status             Inpact of study
appraisaL
FDA impact study             Assess eLigibiLity of               submitted      Highlighted the need to
activities for continued FDA        7/31/93        improve operationaL
funding; identify which                           efficiency in terms of
groups of farmers benefit                         productivity, technology
from FDA grant program;                           transfer, and equity
identify whether FDA grant                        issues; underscored
program is meeting                                necessity of stronger
objectives and propose                            portfolio management and
necessary improvements.                           closer cooperation
between FDA and CNCA.
Budget execution study       Identify additional steps           submitted      Identified procedural
for goverrnent action;              6/30/93       issues for improving
provide a forum for raising                       budget preparation and
and resolving problems                            coimnitment of funds;
concerning procurement,                           made proposals for
commitment and expenditure                        closer collaboration
of funds; promote                                 between MAMVA and MOF;
collaboration between MAMVA                       prepared budget
and MOF, Tresorie g6n6rale,                       execution manual.
and Controle des engagements
et depenses; prepare budget
execution manual.
Audit of MAMVA accounts      Comprehensive audit of MAMVA    Audit report    Highlighted the need for
accounts by June 30, 1991.         submitted      the Bank to reflect more
December 1993   on existing procedures
Complementary   of the Moroccan
audit report    governmental system when
submitted      designing a sectoral
4/15/94       investment loan.



- 21 -
Table 10. Comparison of Cumulative and Actual Loan Disbursements (US$ Million)
IBRD FiscaL Year          Appraisal          Appraisal           Actual             Actual
Semester Erding           Semester             Total            Semester            Total
FY 92
Dec. 1991                     4.0                 4.0                 0                 0
June 1992                     10.0               14.0                0                  0
FY 93
Dec. 1992                     14.0               28.0               29.0              29.0
June 1993                     12.0               40.0               3.2               32.2
F'? 94
Dec. 1993                     10.0               50.0                 0               32.2
June 1994                                                          17.8               50.0
TOTAL                         50.0               50.0               50.0              50.0
Date of final disbursement is 5/17/94
Table 11. Comparison of Loan Disbursements by Category (US$ Million)
Category                   Planned           Actual        Variation X
US$ Million    USS Million    actuaL over
pLarnned
1.  Civil  Works                          8.9              12.4             139%
2.  Reforestation                         3.3              4.3              130%
activities
under Part B (4)
of the Project
3.  Goods                                 13.3             12.9             97%
(excluding pesticides)
4.  ConsuLtants' services                 8.9              4.4              49%
and training
5.  Grants under Part C                   15.6             15.4             99%
of the Project
TOTAL                                50.0             50.0



- 22 -
Table 12. Reconciliation of Legal Covenants Relating to ASIL
Agreement        Section        Covenant   Status    Origirnal    Revised          Description of            Connents
l_____________    Type                       Date        Date             Covenant
Loan               2.02             1          C                      10/92     open special
account
Loan               4.01             9         NYD       6/30/91     11/17/94   Submit audit              Audit report for
reports                 FY92 received.
Audit report for
1/1/93-5/17/94
due 11/17/94.
Loan           Sch. 5 1.a           5          C        contin.                 Maintain
Coordination
Commi ttee
Loan           Sch. 5 1.b           5          C        contin.                 Maintain Budget
Commi ttee
Loan          Sup Ltr 3 1.a         4          CD                               Fund delegation:         Targets deLayed
1/20                  40%                      annualLy due to
2/20                  80%                      Late
distribution of
"Morasse" by
Min. of Finance
Loan          Sup ltr 3 1.d         9          CD       3/31/92     6/30/93    Budget study
Loan          Sup ltr 3 3.a         5          C        9/30/91                 Submit 1992 draft
___________                        __________               ~~~~~~~~budget_ _ _ _
Loan          Sup Ltr 3 4.a         5          C       10/31/91                 Submit action pLan
for privatization
of livestock
services
Loan          Sup ltr 3 4.b        10          C        contin.                 Keep 20% difference
between high & Low
season milk
Loan           Sup ltr 3 5          2          CD       1/31/92     3/24/92    Submit action pLan
for recovery or
irrigation water
____________            _________  ___________               ~~charges               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Loan          Sup Itr 3 6.a         9         CD       12/31/92    7/31/93    Submit FDA impact          Study submitted
IF     :]___   ________   _____   _____  ______   ___                             study                   8/93
Key:
Covenant Types:
1. Accounts/audit                                                       9.  Monitoring, review, and reporting
2. Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries          10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. Flow and utilization of project funds                                11. Sectoral/cross-sectoral budgetary/other resource
4. Counterpart funding                                                       allocation
5. Management aspects of the project or executing agency                 12. Sectoral/cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional
6. Environmental covenants                                                   action
7. Involuntary resettlement                                             13. Other
8. Indigenous people
Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
NC = not complied with
SOON = compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = complied with partially
NYD = not yet due



- 23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Total Staff Inputs
Planied   Revised   ActuaL
Stage of project
cycle            Weeks      weeks      Weeks
Through appraisal         158.0      109.0      41.7
Appraisal-Board            34.0       62.6      49.6
Board-effectiveness        10.0       22.4      13.5
Supervision                50.0       73.8      35.7
Completion                  6.0        7.0       5.0
TOTAL                     258.0      274.8     145.5
Table 14. Bank Resources: Analysis of Review Missions
Performance rating
Number    Days          SpeciaLized
Stage of       Month/       of        in          staff skills        ImpLementation   Development    Types of
project cycle      year    persons   fieId           represented             status           status       problems
Appraisal          5-6/90       6         18         Economist (2)
AgricuLturalist
Irrigation Engineer
Budget Specialist
Ag. Educ. SpeciaList
Post-Appraisal    9-10/90       4         16         Economist (2)
Agriculturalist
Procurement
Specialist
Supervision       9-10/91       2         19           Economist                1
AgriculturaList
Supervision         2/92        3         4        AgricuLturaList
Irrigation Engineer
Accounting
Specialist
Supervision         3/92        1         15           Economist                2                1         Management
Supervision        6-7/92       5         8          Economist (2)
AgriculturaList (2)
l  *                                             Accounting
SpeciaList
Supervision        10/92        6         12           Economist                2                1         Management
AgricuLturalist (2)
l  *                                         Livestock Advisor
Land Affairs Expert
Ag. Training
l______        Specialist
Supervision         4/93        5         11        Economist (2)               2                1         Management
AgriculturaList
l  *                                        Land Affairs Expert
Procurement
Specialist
Supervision         5/94        2         10         AgricuLturaL               2                1         Management
Economist
Economist
Completion          9/94        3         5        Agric. Economist
Agronomist
I ______________  ________    ________            Livestock   Specialist
These missions also included significant resources for preparation and appraisal of ASIL II (Ln. 3765-MOR).
m:\maroc\asiLl\asiLlicr.aLL






ROYAUME DU MAROC
PRET AUX INVESTISSEMENTS DANS LE SECTEUR AGRICOLE
PISA I (PRET NO. 3403 MOR)
MISSION DE REFLEXION
DEUXIEME PRET AUX INVESTISSEMENTS DANS LE SECTEUR AGRICOLE
PISA II (PRET NO. 3765 MOR)
MISSION D'INITIATION
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale, composee de Messrs. Michael Nightingale (charge
de projet), John Cole (agronome), Maurice Gress (expert en passation de marche) et Comelis
de Haan (expert en elevage), a sejourne au Maroc courant octobre et novembre 1994 pour
examiner les realisations du PISA I et etablir un plan d'action pour la mise en route du
PISA II.
2.    La mission a travaille en etroite collaboration avec les collegues marocains notamment
les responsables de la Direction de la planification et des affaires economiques (DPAE) ainsi que
les coordinateurs de chaque departement concerne par les PISA I et II du Ministere de
l'agriculture et de la mise en valeur agricole (MAMVA). Monsieur Nightingale a profite de son
sejour pour inspecter les acquis et realisations du PISA I dans la province de Marrakech. La
mission a, en outre, tire avantage des echanges d'idees avec les representants des Ministeres de
l'Incitation de l'economie et des Finances. Les membres de la mission sont infiniment
reconnaissants pour l'accueil chaleureux qui leur a et reserve ainsi que pour la collaboration
constructive qui a prevalu tout au long de leur sejour. De meme, I'assistance des services
exterieurs dont a beneficie Monsieur Nightingale lors de sa visite sur le terrain a et tres
appreciable.
3.    La mission avait pour objectif de finaliser le rapport d'achevement du PISA I et de mettre
sur pied un atelier pour definir les actions a entreprendre pour le demarrage du PISA II. A cet
effet, trois commissions ont e  creees lors des deux premiers jours pour examiner les points
suivants: le budget du MAMVA et les decaissements et audit des fonds du pret, les questions
relatives aux passations de marche, et la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi-evaluation. La
mission tient a exprimer a chaque participant ses remerciements pour la qualite et la pertinence
des observations et recommandations contenues dans les rapports qui lui ont ete soumis par ces
commissions et dont la teneur est rapportee dans cet aide-memoire. Une reunion de synthese
a eu lieu en date du 24 novembre.



- 2 -
LE PISA I
Le Rapport d'achevement
4.    La mission a beaucoup apprecie les commentaires et suggestions portes par les differentes
directions lesquelles ont fait un bilan des aspects positifs du projet et des difficultes rencontrees.
Cette nouvelle approche n'en sera que plus benefique pour la preparation de futures actions de
developpement et permettra d'eliminer les problemes prealablement poses.
5.    Le chef du Service du Budget ainsi que le chef du Fond de developpement agricole
(FDA) de la DPAE ont presente un releve detaille des depenses globales du PISA I pour les
annees 1991-92 et, ce, pour chaque rubrique financee par le projet ainsi que pour les
investissements du FDA. Il reste encore a obtenir un sommaire des depenses totales du
MAMVA pour 1991-92. Le chef de la Division des finances exterieures (Ministere des
finances) s'est engage a les fournir a la Banque au plus t6t. La mission a charge le coordinateur
du PISA II au sein de la DPAE de suivre cette question de pres.
L'audit des fonds du projet
6.    L'Inspection generale des finances (IGF) a signale a la mission que l'audit final du pret
est en cours de redaction et qu'il sera envoye a la Banque d'ici le 31 decembre 1994. Le
systeme d'audit a ete ameliore et les informations sont maintenant accessibles a toutes les
directions centrales du projet, y compris les precisions sur les depenses du PISA II, et elles sont
communiquees trimestriellement a la DPAE. Ces modifications sont tres positives et elles seront
efficaces a condition que les DPAs soient a meme d'apporter ces precisions. Ce systeme a ete
accorde par la commission responsable a l'atelier.  La mission a 6galement charge le
coordinateur du PISA II d'obtenir l'accord formel de la Direction du budget au sein du Ministere
des finances ainsi que celui de l'Inspection g6nerale des finances (IGF) sur ledit systeme.
LE PISA II
7.    Les discussions sur le PISA II ont porte sur les points suivants: l'entree en vigueur du
pret, les realisations des investissements faits en 1994 au niveau de chaque direction et du FDA,
le probleme des financements retroactifs, la passation des marches et le systeme de suivi pour
les actions du projet.
L'entree en vigueur du pret
8.    Une fois l'accord de pr&t signe, les conditions restant a remplir pour declarer l'entree en
vigueur sont les suivantes: I'approbation par le Conseil du gouvernement des instruments pour
la deregulation du systeme de commercialisation de toutes les cereales (a l'exception du ble
tendre) en amont des minoteries, l'avis juridique, et la publication du decret ratifiant l'accord
de pret. La signature proprement dite est prevue debut d6cembre a Washington en presence de



l'ambassadeur du Royaume du Maroc aux Etats Unis. Le chef de la Division des finances de
1'exterieur a confirme que le document approuvant la deregulation a et signe et qu'une copie
sera envoyee sous peu a la Banque. La mission a demande au coordinateur de veiller a ce que
les trois documents requis pour 1'entree en vigueur soient transmis avec celerite a la Banque afin
que le pret puisse entrer en vigueur avant fin 1994. La mission a exprime son inquietude
s'agissant des reductions budgetaires prevues pour 1995; celles-ci risquent de faire echouer les
actions du projet telles qu'envisagees dans l'accord de pret.
Les realisations du projet
9.    Apres en avoir discute avec les coordinateurs de chaque direction associee et le FDA,
la mission a eu le sentiment d'un programme tres positif quant aux activites du projet et quant
aux progres accomplis par les rubriques a financer par le pret. L'ensemble des developpements
prevus pour 1994 sont en cours avec un objectif atteint pour les marches engages de 90%. 11
reste cependant que les paiements effectues en 1994 (arretes au 31/10/94 a 50%) accusent un
retard dui a la nature de certaines depenses d'investissement qui sont etalees sur plus d'une
annee. Il faut bien suivre les progres de ces developpements de maniere a s'assurer que les
delais et retards pouvant survenir I'annee prochaine sont plut6t occasionnes par des problemes
de gestion que par des problemes de tresorerie budgetaire.
10.   La mission voudrait soulever les commentaires suivants en ce qui concerne les actions
entreprises en 1994 par les directions techniques associees au projet:
a)    Plusieurs directions, en particulier la DAF, la DAHA et la DE, sont concernees
par les problemes de retard et de reduction budgetaire qui risquent de reduire
leurs r6alisations sur le terrain.
b)    Le reboisement est bien organise (DEFCPS), mais il est, d'une part, menace par
le manque de ressources de fonctionnement, i.e. pour l'entretien des pistes
d'acces, et, d'autre part, il faudrait inciter les communautes concernees a apporter
une participation plus active et a prendre en consideration les implications de
nature legales.
c)    Les actions d'amenagement foncier (DAF) sont bien entreprises et le niveau de
participation des beneficiaires est appreciable. La mission a souligne l'importance
d'accorder une attention aussi grande que possible aux petits exploitants afin
d'avoir un champ d'application elargi. Pour cela, il faudrait considerer des
possibilites d'assistance pour le remembrement.
d)    Les essais sur l'amenagement des parcours (DE) sont tres satisfaisants. II faudrait
en etendre le rayon d'action en mettant l'accent sur la participation des
beneficiaires, du moins concernant leur contribution aux travaux;
e)    Pour les actions entreprises en matiere d'elevage: (i) la Banque approuve



- 4 -
l'organisation des centres de collecte du lait dans le secteur prive mais elle a
toutefois demande plus de details sur les zones marginales; (ii) il faut determiner
quelles sont les maladies non-contagieuses ainsi que les honoraires des
veterinaires; (iii) pour les autres services, il serait pr6ferable d'investir dans
l'achat d'equipements n6cessaires avant de penser privatisation et, surtout, il faut
etablir le budget et le couit de ces services; et (iv) il faut faire avancer 1'etude sur
le transfert de gestion des "herd books" au secteur prive.
f)    Pour 1'enseignement et la vulgarisation (DERD), la mission a et informee de
l'existence d'une nouvelle organisation etablie par le MAMVA et que le
Parlement doit approuver. La mission a demande A Wre notifie des que possible
de la teneur de cette nouvelle organisation. Pour 1'etude sur I'enseignement
superieur, et bien que le rapport pour le MAMVA soit termine, il faut attendre
les resultats d'une commission nationale sur le sujet en general avant de se
prononcer.
g)    Pour la protection des vegetaux (DPVCTRF), l'evaluation des stocks de produits
phytosanitaires dont la date d'expiration est depassee est faite et un systeme de
stockage a ete approuve. Il faut, par contre, mettre l'accent sur la destruction de
ces produits perimes A un couit moindre et sans danger. La mission a promis de
soulever cette question aupres de 1' administration.
h)    La mission est inquiete s'agissant de la tendance du FDA A aider les grands
exploitants. Elle a souligne l'importance d'une application generale des nouveaux
reglements pour mieux couvrir tous les beneficiaires.
11,   Outre les investissements envisages pour le PISA II, la mission a examine les realisations
faites par rapport au calendrier des reformes et actions (matrice). Les actions prevues dans la
matrice avant le 31 decembre 1994 sont soit realisees soit en cours. II a ete convenu que le
coordinateur du projet veille au bon deroulement des actions prevues dans la matrice de sorte
qu'elles soient accomplies en temps voulu et conformement au calendrier prevu. Dans le meme
ordre d'idees, il faut s'assurer que les recommandations concernant chaque etude financee par
plusieurs rubriques du pret fasse l'objet d'un programme precis de mise en route.
12.   Pour les etudes prevues dans le rapport d'evaluation du projet (elevage: strategie de
parcours et reseau d'exploitation; enseignement: systeme d'enseignement superieur; protection
vegetale: plan d'action sur l'evacuation des pesticides; production vegetale: reglementation des
engrais; et actions foncieres: transferts de proprietes), il y a eu un certain progres et, dans
l'ensemble, les actions ont suivi le calendrier envisage. Concernant le rapport sur la strategie
des parcours (volume IV), la mission a indique son accord sur les commentaires de la Direction
de l'elevage en juin 1994, commentaires qui ont insiste sur le besoin d'etre plus precis. La
mission a charge le coordinateur du projet de suivre les progres des etudes de maniere A assurer
leur achevement a temps.



- 5-
Budget et financement du projet
13.   Suite aux changements operes sous le PISA II, les procedures de budgetisation du
MAMVA ont et6 ameliorees et la mission en a felicite le service du budget de la DPAE. La
mission a note, par ailleurs, que le programme de formation en matiere d'execution du budget,
envisage comme partie des actions du PISA II, est deja bien avance.
14.   Concemant le budget fiscal du projet, la majorite des coordinateurs des directions
techniques ont fait part de leurs inquietudes quant aux reductions envisagees. En meme temps,
les responsables au sein de la DPAE ont explique que les reductions budgetaires n'affecteraient
que les frais de fonctionnement. II incombe a chaque direction de decider quelles seront les
rubriques a reduire. Le budget pour l'annee 1995 est en voie de finalisation et doit etre presente
au Parlement avant fin novembre. Pour le moment, il n'est pas certain que les rubriques
financees par le pret ne soient pas affectees. La mission a demande au coordinateur du projet
d'envoyer a la Banque, des que possible, une copie du budget final.
15.   Concernant le financement des actions du projet, la mission a examine la situation
actuelle des depenses (pour 1994) avec les differents coordinateurs des directions techniques
associees et du FDA. Tel qu'il a ete prevu dans l'accord de pret, un montant a hauteur de 12
millions de dollars E.U. equivalents de ces depenses serait remboursable retroactivement. II
etait entendu que la DPAE deciderait quelles seront les depenses precises a imputer sur l'annee
arretee au 31/12/94. La mission a souligne l'importance d'operer la selection des depenses en
fonction des directives de la Banque.
Passations de marches
16.   La mission a decrit de facon generale les directives de passation de marches de la
Banque, celles concernant les marches de travaux et de fournitures, et celles concernant l'emploi
de consultants. La mission a insiste, vu 1'existence de divergences entre les procedures de la
Banque et les reglementations marocaines en la matiere, sur l'accord du Gouvernement Marocain
a faire prevaloir et a utiliser les directives de la Banque pour tous les projets finances par celle-
ci.
17.   Ainsi, par exemple, lors de l'ouverture publique des plis dans les marches de travaux et
de fournitures, l'ouverture des enveloppes techniques et financieres sera faite simultanement.
De meme, et contrairement aux marches de travaux et de foumitures, il a ete precise que le
recrutement de consultants ne sera pas fait par voie d'appels d'offres et avis dans les journaux
mais par consultation restreinte (short list). Dans ce cas, l'ouverture des plis ne se fera pas en
public et l'ouverture des plis financiers ne sera faite qu'apres qu'une notation technique des
offres ne soit completee.
18.   La commission de l'atelier sur les marches a abouti aux conclusions suivantes:



- 6 -
(i)   Puisque le MAMVA a deja etabli, en collaboration avec la Banque mondiale, des
documents d'appels d'offres types pour les marches de travaux et fournitures dans
le cadre du PISA I, et dont les dispositions avaient ete approuvees par le
MAMVA  et la Banque, alors la commission recommande que ces memes
documents soient utilises par toutes les entites du MAMVA concemres pour le
PISA II avec cependant une precision supplementaire: concernant l'ouverture des
plis en public, les plis techniques et financiers doivent etre ouverts simultanement.
(ii)   Les documents d'appels d'offres etablis par le MAMVA et utilises dans le PISA
II sont les suivants:
- dossier type d'appel d'offres ouvert pour les travaux de genie civil;
- dossier type d'appel d'offres ouvert au niveau national pour les fournitures;
- dossier type d'appel d'offres ouvert au niveau international pour les fournitures.
19.   Pendant I'atelier et lors des visites aux directions centrales associees, plusieurs
intervenants ont fait part de la difficulte d'appliquer les directives de la Banque n'ayant pas ete
informes de l'accord du Gouvernement Marocain pour l'application des directives de la Banque.
Une des difficultes etant l'application des directives s'agissant du recrutement de bureaux d'etude
par liste restreinte lorsque le montant depasse 1 million de DH. La mission a discute de cela
avec Son Excellence le Ministre de l'incitation de l'economie qui a confirme l'accord du
Gouvernement pour tous les projets finances par la Banque. Le Ministere a egalement confirme
l'envoi a tous les ministeres d'une copie de sa lettre a la Banque mondiale de novembre 1992
approuvant l'utilisation des procedures de la Banque. II semble, cependant, qu'une certaine
reticence de la part de la Commission centrale des marches empeche l'application uniforme de
ces directives.
20.   En fin d'atelier, la DPAE a suivi les recommandations de la commission des marches en
ce qui concerne les documents a utiliser par ses services exterieurs dans le cadre du PISA II.
La mission a par ailleurs exprime le voeu de voir les documents suivants mis a la disposition des
DPAs et les autres organismes concernes par les directions centrales concernees: l'accord de
pret, les directives de la Banque pour les marches de travaux et de fournitures et les directives
pour 1'emploi de consultants.
21.   Concernant les etudes a realiser, le recrutement de consultants se fera par liste restreinte
comportant un minimum de trois bureaux et un maximum de six. Une lettre d'invitation sera
envoyee aux bureaux d'etude, accompagnee des termes de reference et d'un modele de contrat.
L'ouverture des soumissions ne sera pas publique.
Systeme de suivi du projet
22.   La mission a discute avec la division de Suivi et evaluation a la DPAE du systeme en
voie d'implantation dans les directions techniques. La mission a note l'existence d'un systeme
de suivi-evaluation au sein du MAMVA depuis plusieurs annees et cela avec l'assistance du



PNUD et de la FAO. La mission a indique que la Banque voudrait endosser ce systeme mais,
a son avis, les objectifs des deux phases de developpement en cours sont tres ambitieux. Selon
la Banque, les programmes de suivi comportant une methodologie simple et des objectifs
modestes sont generalement les plus efficaces sur le plan des resultats. Il serait donc preferable
si l'on identifiait, chaque annee, les priorites a adopter pour les actions de suivi.
23.   Il a e  aussi convenu durant cet atelier qu'un systeme de suivi-evaluation des lignes
budgetaires financees devrait Wtre mis en oeuvre dans chaque direction.   Ce systeme
comprendrait deux parties:
(i)   selon les actions concernees, il y aurait en premier un suivi comptable et physique
de toutes les lignes financees avec comparaison des ecarts par rapport aux
previsions; et
(ii)   en second, il y aurait une evaluation de l'impact des investissements au regard des
beneficiaires, de l'augmentation de la production, etc... afin de pouvoir, en fin
de projet, calculer le taux de rentabilite interne de l'investissement. Une ligne
serait choisie par chaque direction pour cette evaluation.
24.   La commission a decide que:
(i)   chaque direction technique associee devra preparer un rapport semestriel qu'elle
communiquera a la DPAE laquelle soumettra a la Banque un rapport annuel;
(ii)   concernant le choix des lignes a evaluer a partir de 1995, la mission a visite les
differentes directions, et il a ete propose d'evaluer les lignes indiquees dans
l'Annexe 1 ci-jointe.
25.   Les directions techniques et la division de suivi-evaluation ont souleve le probleme du
manque de moyens disponibles pour la creation de cellules de suivi, en particulier pour les
visites sur le terrain. La mission va porter ce probleme a la connaissance du Ministre de
l'agriculture. Elle a indique que les fonds du pret pourraient etre utilises pour lancer ce systeme
et attend qu'on lui fasse une proposition sommaire dans ce sens. Cette possibilite devrait etre
envisagee lors de la revision du budget des investissements pour les annees a venir.
26.   La division de suivi-evaluation, a la DPAE, est chargee de la conception du canevas de
tableau de bord pour le suivi des actions du PISA II. L'echeancier prevoit l'achevement du
travail preparatoire avant le 15 decembre 1994 et la mise en place du systeme a partir de 1995.
La mission a indique qu'une revue de la situation des developpements de suivi sera important
pour la prochaine mission de revue du PISA II; il est particulierement important de determiner
les points suivants pour chaque etude:
(i) arreter les themes principaux;
(ii) identifier les zones d'action; et
(iii) preparer un budget.



-8-
Gestion du projet
27.   La mission a souligne l'iimportance d'une coordination efficace pour le projet. Elle a
suggere la designation d'un coordinateur charge de 1'evolution des points suivants: liaison avec
la Banque, progres de la situation budgetaire du projet, progres de la situation d'investissement
de chaque rubrique; la situation en ce qui conceme la matrice et les etudes, et le progres du
systeme de suivi.
Rapports
28.   La mission a felicite la DPAE pour la qualite de ses rapports sur les progres annuels sous
le PISA I. Pour les actions de suivi du PISA II, la mission a demande au coordinateur des
rapports semestriels concis sur les progres du projet.
Prochaine mission
29.   La mission a propose une date pour la prochaine mission de revue, probablement la
deuxieme quinzaine de janvier, 1995. Les objectifs de celle-ci seraient l'examen des suivants:
(i)  le dernier rapport d'audit du PISA I;
(ii)  les marches et les decaissements retroactifs pour 1994;
(iii) le budget pour 1995;
(iv) les propositions de chaque direction et du FDA sur les precisions a apporter dans
les budgets previsionnels pour 1996 et 1997;
(v)  les operations du FDA pour le PISA II, dans le cadre de la CNCA;
(vi) les prix de reference des produits agricoles pour 1995, en particulier les
equivalents tarifaires pour les cereales; et
(vii) la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi pour les activites du PISA II.
Michael Nightingale
Charge de projet                                                   le 30 novembre 1994



ANNEXE
ROYAUME DU MAROC
DEUXIEME PRET AUX INVESTISSEMENTS DANS LE SECTEUR AGRICOLE
(PISA II)
Proposition sur les actions a evaluer
DIRECTION                LIGNE              ACTION
AGR-DAHA                 73/41/10           Amenagement hydro-
agricole de Moyen Sebou; quelques sites a
choisir.
DDGI                     73/44              Barrages collinaires.
AGR-DAF                  74/20/20           Epierrage.
DPVCTRF                  43/30/30           Controle des semences/plants: travaux
d'amenagement et d'instal-
lation (a determiner la possibilite
d'une evaluation technique de 1'achat
d'equipement).
DPV                      45/90/--           DRS fruitiere (a determiner: l'evaluation
de l'impact des essais de demonstration
[45/40/30-32]).
DE                       46/22/12           Amelioration des terrains de parcours (a
determiner: en matiere de campagne de
vaccination [46/13/10-20]).
DERD                     50/32/10-40        Construction centres de formation
continue.



APPENDIX
B.    Borrower contribution to the ICR
Analysis for the ICR was undertaken together with Government representatives during
Bank missions in October/November, 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The
borrower's views are reflected in the ICR and noted in the attached mission's aide-memoire.






')i      :  n iIAj
i' H 1H T                  N: o  -4 ICV A-3 9 I
, O'' '!i m       1 1.



