Docume
The Worl          !NV 1 -.i N,,   q"!i-() Nfl, 1v--  (:A';h-. 
FOR OFFICIAL
AAI~~~~~A4
A/ ~~~~~~~3                     Yo /         'ot
Report No. 9240-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(ASIL)
JULY 29, 1991
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb Department
Agriculture Operations Division
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1.00          DH 8.0
DH 1.00          US$0.125
(as of March 1991)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AER          -   Agriculture Expenditure Review
ASAL         -   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BEMC         -   Budget Execution Monitoring Committee
CED          -   Comptroller of Commitments and Expenditures
CGED         -   Comptroller General of Commitments and Expenditures
CMV          -   Ex  nsion Centers under ORMVAs
CT           -   Extension Centers under DPAs
DCFTT        -   Directorate of Land Surveying and Titling
DE           -   Directorate of Livestock
DEAR         -   Directorate of Agricultural Education and Research
DEFCS        -   Directorate of Forestry and Soil Conservation
DER          -   Directorate of Rural Equipment (irrigation)
DPA          -   Provincial Departments of Agriculture
DPAE         -   Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs
DPV          -   Directorate of Crop Production
DPVCTRF      -   Directorate of Plant Protection
DVRA         -   Directorate of Extension and Agrarian Reform
ENA          -   National College of Agriculture
ENFI         -   National School of Forest Engineers
FDA          -   MARA's Technology Development Program
GOM          -   Government of Morocco
GDP          -   Gross Domestic Product
HYV          -   High Yielding Variety
IAV          -   Agricultural and Veterinary Institute Hassan II
INRA         -   National Institute for Agricultural Research
MARA         -   Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
M&E          -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOI          -   Ministry of the Interior and Information
MTASAP       -   Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
OED          -   Operation's Evaluation Department of the Bank
O&M          -   Operation and Maintenance
ORMVA        -   Regional Agricultural Development Authorities (irrigation)
PERL         -    Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan
PPAR         -    Project Performance Audit Report
SAL          -    Structural Adjustment Loan



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
STAFE APPRAXSALREPORT
KINGDOM OF xmOCCO
ALICuLTUEa SECTOR INVESTME_T LOAN
oan -an-d Protect SuMmar
Barroymr:                   Kingdom of Morocco
Am2oun:                     US$50 million equivalent
Terms:                      Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at the standard variable rate.
Executing Age2ny:           Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA).
Prolect Des=&ition:         The primary objective of the ASIL would be to support
a well-conceived investment program in Morocco's
agricultural sector. The program being supported
is a 1991-92 time-slice of the Government's total
investment program in agriculture, estimated at
US$640 million.   The ASIL would finance about
8 percent of this program.   The ASIL would also
promote essential policy reform measures to improve
the   investment   process,   strengthen   MARA's
institutional capacity and continue to advance key
sector policy issues notably in the important
livestock and irrigation subsectors.
The ASIL would finance specific critical investments
selected from the Government's two-year investment
program.  These include:  small- and large-scale
irrigation; crop diversification and area development
including roads; destoning, and land consolidation;
equipment for plant protection; forest management
plans and plantation establishment; and technical
equipment, vaccines and rangeland improvement for
livestock. Also financed, would be a technology
development program promoting (a) better soil
cultivation, seed bed preparation end crop management
through  use,  f  appropriate  tractor-drawn  farm
implements,    (b) more   efficient   small-scale
irrigation, (c) Improved crop storage, (d) improved
livestock production through better stock and
feeding, (e) fruit tree planting as part of crop
diversification measures, and (f, land improvement.
This document has a restricted distribution and may bs used by recipi...ts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The package of policy measures supported by the ASIL
includes:
(a)  reforms in the investment process in three
general areas (i) budget execution (faster
delegation of funds, better monitoring of
expenditures); (ii) institutional strengthening
(improvement of KARA's staffing and structure);
and (iii) project selection (use of objective
criteria for new MARA investments);
(b) livestock sector reforms; and
(c) improved recovery of irrigation water charges.
Project Risks:              The two major risks facing the project are i) the
possible Government failure to provide adequate and
timely budget funding and ii) the institutional risk
arising from an entrenched bureaucracy resisting
changes and inert to stimulus to improve its
performance.   The timeliness risk is addressed
directly by the ASIL through measures to accelerate
the delegation of funds. The risk of adequacy of
funding is reduced by the fact that the ASIL is
financing about 90 percent of the investments it
covers and, as a result, the Ministry of Agriculture
may be able to protect them better.  This risk will
be minimized even further if SAL 2 goes ahead,
because MARAs budget would be part of the protected
priority investments. To minimize the institutional
risk, the organizational reform program has been
designed with clear transparent and monitorable
targets which would be closely supervised during the
implementation  of  the  ASIL.    The  technical
implementation of the investments should be no major
risk, since ASIL supports the regular investment
program and MARA has experience in the type of
investments financed.



- LiL -
Estimated 1991-1992 Program Cost %
Local    Foreig          1Q5^1
-        US$ Milllon-
A. IRRIGATION
Small-scale                            26         17            43
Large-scale                           197        154            351
B. NON-IRRIGATION
Crop Prodsuction                       30         11            41
Extension                              13          8             21
Forestry                               31         13            44
Livestock                              20         10             30
Plant Protection                        8          5             13
Education                              12          8             20
Research                                9         10             19
Technology Des lopment                 17         10             27
Planning                                3          4              7
Land Policy                            14        _1              24
Total Program Costs                 380        260           640
Financing Plan for the 1291-1922 Program
2£MI       Foseig=       Total
-US$ Million -------
Government                                 237        153          390
Other Donors                                74         56          130
VB. excluding ASIL                          40         30           70
SB, ASIL                                   .22        _21
Total                                    380        260          640
EstLmated DLsbmusements
Annual               14.0                 26.0                     10.0
Cumulatlve           14.0                40.0                      50.0
RAte of Return:   n.a.
Kwha]bgiber: No. IBRD 22914
Includes US$80 million of taxes and duties.



STAFFAPRISAL RPT
KINO  OF MOROCCO
AGRICULT  SECTOR  MEE=  L
Table of contents
£as, Ng
I.   INTRODUCTION         ....................                . 1
II.   AGRICULTURE IN MOROCCO
A.  Contribution to the Economy   . . . . . . . . . . . 2
B.  Government Strategy.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
C.  Agricultural Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
D.  Agriculture Sector Institutions . . . . . . . . . . 4
E.  Agriculture Sector Investments  . . . . . . . . . . 6
F.  Bank Involvement in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . 7
III.   SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND ISSUES
A.  Sector Adjustment . . . . . . . ;. . . . . . . . . 9
B.  Issues in the Investment Process  . . . . . . . . 12
IV.   THE LOAN
PART I.    Objectives, Rationale and Overview  . . . . . . 14
A.  Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   14
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . 15
C.  Main Features and Components  . . . . . . . . . . 16
PART II.  Reform Measures .17
A.  Reforms in the Investment Process . . . . . . . . 17
B.  Livestock Sector Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
C.  Irrigation Water Charges  . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Morocco in May-June 1990 and a follow-up mission in September-October 1990.
Mission members were:  Harald Stier (Leader), Isabelle Tsakok (Economist),
John Cole (Agriculturist, part-time), Jean-Pierre Villaret (Irrigation, part-
time) Bank, and Jean Grosdidier de Matons (Budget Specialist) and
Jean-Marie Pierre (Agricultural Education Specialist), consultants.



Table of Contents (cont'd)                                     Raw No
PART III.    The Investment program .......... . 22
A.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
B.  Small- and Medium-scale Irrigation and Rural
Engineering (DER) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
C.  Large-Scale Irrigation (9 ORNVAs) . . . . . . . . 24
D.  Services to Crop Production (DPV, DVRA & DPVCTRF)  26
E.  Forestry and Soil Conservation (DEFCS)  . . . . . 29
F.  Livestock (DE)  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . 31
G.  Edttcation and Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
H.  Technology Development Program (FDA)  . . . . . . 34
I.  Land Surveying and Titling (DCFTT)  . . . . . . . 36
J.  Planning (DPAE) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
V.   PROGRAM EXECUTION
A.  Program Costs .......  .........38
B.  Financing . . .            .38
C.  Procurement .............40
D.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . .  41
E   Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
F.  Program Coordination and Operation  . . . . . . . 43
G.  Program Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  . 44
H.  Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . 45
VI.   BENEFITS, JUSTIAFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . 46
B.  Environmental Effects .....  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 49
C. Project Risks .                                   50
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Annexefi
Annex 1.    Cost Tables  ....... . .............  53
Annex 2.    ASIL-Indicative financing program  . . . . . . . . . . 54
Annex 3.    Disbursement Schedule  ............  ...   .  57
Annex 4.    Bank Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Annex 5.    Environmental Impact ................ . 60
Annex 6.    Reforms planned to be carried out under the ASIL . . . 64
Annex 7.    List of Documents in Project File  . . . . . . . . . . 67
ghart       Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture  . . . . . 68
IBRD No. 22914 - Morocco: Agriculture Sector Investment Loan



STAFF APPRAISL RUPORT
KING-DOM OF MOROCCO
A CULTUR  SECTOR IMNE 1E    WAN
1.01         In response to mounting economic disequilibria in the early 1980s,
Morocco embarked upon a medium-term program of stabilization and adjustment
designed to reduce external and fiscal deficits and to reform the underlyirg
structure of key economic and social sectors in order to increase domestic
productivity. Public investments were reduced to control the fiscal deficit,
and the Government (COM) implemented a series of policy reforms at both sectoral
and macro-economic levels. The Bank and the GOM concur that policy interventions
should now focus on the consolidation of macro-economic stability and on the
resumption of sustained investment growth.   To support this approach, Bank
strategy is to help provide a last "big push" with adjustment lending and to move
gradually from an emphasis on adjustment lending to investment lending. A secone
SAL is being prepared in support of sufficient resource availability for
investments in human resources and essential infrastructure, including
agriculture. A second PERL is being prepared in parallel with the SAL. This
would be a hybrid operation which, in addition to assisting the Government's
privatization effort, would aim at the restructuring of key sectors, particularly
mining and sugar. The proposed Agriculture Sector Investment Loan (ASIL) is
consistent with the Bank and Government strategy in a sector where an adjustment
program has already been successfully introduced with the support of two
adjustment loans, ASAL I (signed July 1985, closed June 1987) and ASAL II (signed
December 1987). The third and final tranche of ASAL is expected to be released
in the fall of 1991. The Gulf crisis affected the macro-economic and fiscal
stability through increased oil prices (compensated through increased support
from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States), loss of revenue from tourism
and other factors but these effects are expected to be of short duration.
1.02         Agriculture accounts for some 16 percent of GDP and 30 percent of
exports and has contributed almost a third of recent GDP growth. The sector,
however, still has considerable untapped growth potential and can therefore
continue to play an important role in Morocco's adjustment and growth strategy.
Much of this growth will be generated in the private sector as a result of
private sector investments and the improVed efficiency of past and future
investments. For this to happen, it is imperative that Government have a policy
environment that stimulates private investment and better targets public
investment in infrastructure and agricultural services. The proposed loan would
contribute towards these objectives; a detailed Agriculture Expenditure Review



(AER)3I was carried out io serve as a basis for the deflnition of the project.
Final appraisal of the project took place in October 1990.
II. APGICUILTE IN NORO9CO
A. ContributIon to the Economy
2.01         The agricultural sector in Norocco is of crucial importance to the
overall economy. After a long period of relative stagnation in the 1970s and
early 1980s, exceptional increases in agricultural production (average annual
growth of over 6 percent during the second half of the 1980s) have been the
primary contributor to the country's real GDP growth during most of the 1980s
(25 percent of GDP growth 1980-82 to 1988-90). In 1989, for the first time,
agricultural exports surpassed those of phosphates (including fertilizers) to
become the leading source of foreign exchange earnings.
2.02         Despite satisfactory growth since 1980, food production has failed
to keep pace with domestic demand generated by a combination of high population
growth (2.5 percent p.a.) and a high rate of urbanization (4.8 percent). Food
imports hav6 increased by about 10 percent p.a. and self-sufficiency rates for
key items have declined (cereals from 86 percent to 60 percent, edible oils from
32 percent to 15 percent).  Altogether, food imports now account for about
10 percent  of  merchandise  imports.    The  agricultural  sector  is  still
characterized by relatively low productivity and could benefit from well-
targeted investment programs and continued policy reforms.
D. Government Strateg
2.03         In i986, as part of the response to the worsening macro-economic
situation in the country, the Government began a Medium-Term Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (MTASAP) which was supported by the Bank through. the First
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL I, Loan 2590-MOR). Through experience
gained and additional work done during this loan, the NTASAP was expanded or
redefined in certain areas for its second phase, supported in 1987 by the Bank
through ASAL II (Loan 2885-MOR). The Government strategy, thus defined, served
as a basis for the 1988-92 Investment Plan, the last two years of which would
be supported by the proposed ASIL.
2.04         Consistent with the macro-economic objective of redressing the
balance of payments and the budgetary situation, the essential Government
objectlve remains to promote efficient growth in agriculture by improving
resource allocation, encouraging productivity gains, streamlining the use of
public resources and alleviating the burden of agricultura&l and food policies
on the government budget; and encouraging a more active involvement of the
private sector in input supply, support services, marketing and agro-processing.
U Report no 8878-NOR, dated June 29, 1990.



Key aspects of the Government's strategy reflected in the 1988-92 Investment Plan
have been to:
(a) liberalize the prices and incentives framework in order to encourage
shifts towards the type of crop and livestock activitLes for which
Morocco has a comparative advantage and to maintain adequate farmer
Incentives for commoduties and production systems likely to be the
primary so8tit  of future agriculture" growth and employment;
(b) restructure public investment and expenditure programs to ensure a six
of quick maturing and high return in'astments, while assuring adequate
funds for maintainine the already established productive i frastructure;
(c) strengthen and streamline essential agricultural support services
provided by the Government while encouraging the role of the private
sector in the provision of commercially viable ones;
(d)  improve productivity of land use and management of the country's natural
resources; and
(e) build up institutional capacity for agricultural policy planning and
analysis, and sector performance monitoring.
Good progress on this strategy has been achieved to date (para. 3.01 to 3.03).
C. hs ral-Zra4UCt1Of
2.05         Ihe So=.  Of Morocco's 60 million hectares, only 7.7 million
hectares are suitable for agriculture, with another 20 million hectares in semi-
arid or mountain regions suitable fox grazing. Of the cultivable land, about
50 percent receive an erratic rainfall of less than 400 mm, and can only be put
under relatively high-risk, low-value cr- ping systems (see map IBRD 22914).
The remaining 50 percent benefit from good but inconsistent rainfall.   Some
1.1 million hectares (14 percent) are currently under irrigation. Overall, the
7.7 million hectares of arable land produce mainly cereals (75 percent), pulses
(9 percent), fruit (7 percent), olives and oil seeds (5 percent), vegetables
(3 percent), and forage crops (1 percent). Livestock includes some 15 million
sheep, 5 million goats, 3 million cattle and 1.4 million draught animals.
2.06         The rural population in Morocco numbers around 11.7 million people,
or 57 percent of the total. The agricultural sector employs about 2.2 million
people, most of whom are illiterate (82 percent).   Small farms (less than
5 hectares) make up approximately 80 percent of all farms (1.1 million out of
a total of approximately 1.4 million) and account for 25 percent of the
cultivated land, while 75 percent of the land are distributed among medium, large
and state farms.  Individual ownership accounts for some 69 percent of total
arable land, with 5 percent of the land government-owned, and 13 percent owned
collectively.
2.07         Sector erformane.  The performance of the agricultural sector
has been uneven.   Following a period of expansion in the sixties, when



- 4 -
agriculture grew at more than 3 percent p. a. , the rate of development slowed
considerably in the seventies and early eighties. During this time, the sector's
average annual growth rate was only 1.2 percent, impaired by successive droughts
and economic policies which favored industry over agriculture and consumers over
agricultural producers.
2.08         Since 1984, however, favorable weather conditions and policy changes
(para. 2.03) brought about as part of the MTASAP have led to greatly increased
harvests overall, although some weather related set-backs have occurred.
Agricultural production grew in volume by 18 percent in 1985, 37 percent in 1986,
23 percent in 1987 (a drought year), 31 percent in 1988 and 2 percent in 1989,
and according to preliminary data, some 2 percent in 1990. While it is still
too early to draw definitive conclusions about the impact of the Government's
adjustment program in ;griculture, the remarkable growth registered in good
rainfall years since 1984, would still seem to indicate a strongly positive
supply response of agriculture to the changed policy environment, namely to the
increased liberalization of agricultural and food prices, and of the marketing
and trade regimes.
D.  Aericulture Sector Institutions
2.09         Minnisyt  of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.   The Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA, see organizational chart) is respons8ble
for the design and implementation of the Government's investment and recurrent
budgets in agriculture.  It shapes private and public investment, and is the
primary public agency in charge of maintaining the country' s agricultural assets.
2.10         MARA is divided into nine (central) directorates:  Rural Equipment
(DER), Crop Production (DPV), Livestock (DE), Extension and Agrarian Reform
(DVRA), Forestry and Soil Consbrvation (DEFCS), Plant Protection (DrVCTRF),
Agricultural Education and Research (DEAR), Administrative Affairs (DAM) and,
Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE). A tenth directorate, Land Surveying and
Titling (DCFTT), falls under MARA's supervision but maintains a separate budget.
2.11         Agricultural EducAtion and Resear   is the respons bility of the
DEAR. Higher-level education directly under the DEAR budget is given at the
Nati£onal School of Forest Engineers (ENFI) at Sal&v, and -.iumerous schools
provide agricultural education and training at the high-schoo' or lower levels.
2.12         AgriculturalLResearch is carried out by several agencies in Morocco.
The most important is the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA),
which is the only institution in Morocco where the activities are exclusively
devoted to agricultural research.   Other autonomous institutions primarily
conduct agricultural research in support of their main activities. The most
important are the Agricultural and Veterinary Institute Hassan II (IAV) in Rabat
and the National College of Agriculture (ENA) in Meknes, both of which provide
university level agricultural education.   Although in principle financially
S Other higher-level agricultural education is given by autonomous schools
(see para. 2.12)



- 5 -
autonomous, all three receive most of their funds through the MARA budget (DEAR),
and KARA is also responsible for the coordirqtion and supervision of their
activitLes.   Within MARA, research is al8o carried out by tte forest and
livestock directorates, and (to some extent) by the DPAs and ORMVAs.
2.13         Provincial DeRartments of AgrLculture (DPAs).  At  he reglonal
level, the Ministry of Agriculture is represented through 35 Provincial
Directorates of Agriculture (DPA) which are responslble for the exocution of
the agricultural programs in their respective provinces except for the areas
covered by the ORKVAs (see below). The DPAs can be considered to be the regional
extension of MARA's central directorates and are organized into Services which
essentially match the directorates at the central leve'. Each DPA has services
for rural engineering, crop production and agricultural extension, furestry,
livestock, sti.tistics and administration. Funds fo, the operatlon of the DPAs
are voted under MARA's budget to the central directorates, which each del agates
the necessary resources to its respective services in the 35 DPAs. Large-scale
irrigatLon is the responsibility of nine Regional AgriultuXa_lDevelopWent
Authorities (OLUlns), which are state-owned enterprises with a separate legal
identity and financial autonomy under MARA's (DER) supervision.  The ORNVAs'
responsibilities cover perimeters under large-scale irrigation or which have the
potential for such irrigation.   Within their areas,  the ORMVAs are also
responsible for small-zcale irrigation and for rainfed agriculture. The DPAs
have no authority in ORMVA areas. The ORMVAs receive government funding in the
MARA (DER) budget.
2.14         Extension Centers (CT. & CMVs).  At the field level, government
services to agriculture are provided by extensior. uenters comprising 121 CTs in
the rainfed (DPA) areas and 156 CNVs in the irrigated (ORNVA) areas. The CTs
are semi-autonomous public bodies funded by government budget allocations,
managed by a board of directors chaired by the Caidl' and under the day-to-day
control of a director who is nominated by the Minister of Agriculture. Staff
at these centers provide extension services, assist with cooperative development
and lnvestment code related activities as well as with agricultural credit
operations.   Extension services are under the direct authority of DVRA and
technical supervision is provided by staff of the DPAs' crop production and
extension service. The CMVs depend directly on the ORNVAs, and DVRA has no
authority over extension services in the ORMVA areas. Previously, both CTs and
CMVs also provided input supply and machinery hire services to farmers, but as
part of the HTASAP these services have been discontinued and, for the most part,
taken up by the private sector.
2.15         The National Agricultural CredLt Bank (CNCA) is a Goveri.ent-owned
financial institution, which provides most of the medium-, long- and short-term
flnancing extended to the agricultural sector. Othgr institutions operating in
the agricultural sector include half a dozen state-owned enterprises and the
Ministry of the Interior (14I), which plays an important role through its
administration of the rural municipalities, and the tribal collectives.
V Government offlcial, in local administratlve division (commune), combining
the responsibility of judge, administrator and chief of police.



- 6 -
I.AUGrIcture sector Iiivesmeimts
2.16         Table 2.1 shows estimates of the order of magnitude for total
investments in agriculture in 1989. More recent data are not available.
ZlL.-LL  ESTINkTED INVESTHEKTS IN AGRICULTURE 1989
MlY21i5L.   9 SO=                                   lm lion
Ministry of Agriculture                                  1,570
Public Enterprises                                          30
Ministry of the Interior                                   250
Rural Municipalities                                       145
Sub-total                                           1,995
Private Sector
CNCA Medium- and Long-Term Credit                        1,395
Counterpart self-finance 30 percent                        600
Self-financed investments (est. 40 percent)                800
Sub-total                                           2.795
Total Agriculture Investment                           4,790
Gross Fixed Capital Formation (Economy wide)            43,708
Agriculture Value Added                                 31,230
Gross Domestic rroduct                                 190,010
2.17        The estimated total investment in agriculture represents about
11 percent of gross fixed capital formation which is some 30 percent Less than
agxiculture's share in GDP (16 percent). This appears reasonable because of the
relatively lower capital intensity of the sector. Agricultural investments have
grown by an average of some 0.5 percent per annum in real terms between 1982 and
1989, compared to a decline of 1.5 percent p.a. for total gross fixed investment
in the economy.   This is also consistent with a higher growth rate for
agriculture of about 6 percent p.a. compared to about 4 percent p.a. for GDP,
permitting agriculture to increase its share in GDP slightly from some 15 percent
to over 16 percent.
2.18        An important feature of the investment picture is the rapid increase
in private investment in agriculture, as indicated in the growth of CNCA medium-
and long-term credit of over 15 percent per annum (8 percent p.a. in real terms).
At the same time, public investments showed little change in nominal terms and
actually decreased in real terms. As a result, there has been a healthy shift
in agricultural Investments during the 1980a from the public to the private
sector. The Bank's structural adjustment programs and support of the CNCA are
likely to have been contributory factors by providing the necessary incentives



- 7-
and means for increased private sector participation.   Now, however,  the
Government is recognizing the need to complement private investment with the
essential infrastructure and the technological environment conducive to continued
private interest and necessary for the productivity of private capital in the
sector.
F. Bank Involvemnt in The Sector
2.19        Bank Group lending to Morocco begar. in 1965.  To date, 97 loans and
credits have been made, supported by US$5 billion Bank and IDA funds
(US$45.2 million of IDA credits), net of cancellations.   In agriculture,
19 projects have been completed and eight are being implemented, totalling
US$1.3 billion of Bank Group lending. These include: eight irrigation 2rolects,
Sidi Slimane (FY65), Sebou (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76)
and II (FY77), all completed; two small- and_medim-scale irrLgation 2rolects
(FY83 and FY88) and a lar-ale irrigation im2rgvementgroject (FY86); seven
aaricultural credit prolects (FY66, FY73, FY77, FY79, FY84, FY86, all completed;
and FY89), five rainfed africultural delopment ROJeCts in the Meknes (FY75),
Loukkos (FY80) and Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY79) and Middle-Atlas (FY82) areas, a8'l
completed, and in the Oulmes Rommani (FY83) area; an afro-industrial and flood
contrQl groject, Sebou II (FY74, completed); a vegetable and marketing prolect
(FY80, completed);  two   forestry pxJopets (FY82, completed and FY90);  an
agricultuiral research and extension RrOieQt (FY89); and two agricultural sector
adlustment loans (FY86 and FY88), one completed and one for which the third
tranche is expected to be released in the fall of 1991.
2.20        Performance of Bank-financed projects in agriculture has generally
been satisfactory. Performance in irrigation nralecta has been good once initial
problems of land distribution and organizational delays in construction and in
procurement of irrigation equipment were overcome. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) for the Sebou I project (Loan 643-MOR) Ltresses the project's
success in institution building and in contributing to inczeased crop production.
The PPAR for the Sebou II project (Loan 1018-MOR) notes that the project was
successful in introducing commercial sugarcane production and processing. The
mechanization of sugarcane harvesting, loading and transport has made an
important contribution to the subsector but investments in commodities like
sugar, which are subject to wide price fluctuations, are especially vulnerable.
An OED Impact Evaluation Report for Doukkala I and II projects (Loans 1201- and
1416-NOR) concluded that the projects complemented well the Government's
objectives of investing in large-scale irrigation to enhance domestic food self-
sufficiency, boost export earnings and expand rural employment opportunities.
The PPAR of the Souss Groundwater Project (Loan 1123-MOR) stresses the successful
private land consolidation, public land distribution and cooperative
establishment but highlights the neglect of maintenance due to inadequate funding
and staff. This problem was subsequently addressed country-wide through tb-
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR). Performance of the
six completed agricultural credit rollects has been good and the PPARs stress
the contribution made to the country's agricultural development by the successful
expansion of credit to small farmers. As already indicated, the expansion of
agricultural credit has been instrumental in bringing about a shift from public
to private investment in the sector.



- 8 -
2.21        RuaI Deelment Projects. In the rainfed sector, thb first project
(Meknes, Credit 555-MOR) suffered implementation delays -Ale to land
redistribution  problems,   insufficient  project  preparation,   optimistic
implementation targets and management inexperience in Morocco. The PPAR states
that because of its pilot nature, the project was partly successful.   It
demonstrated the economic viability of land consolidation and destoning and the
road component was also successful. The project, on the other hand, had little
impact on land reformand improved operations of the cooperatives. The following
four projects, Fes-Karia-Tissa, Loukkos, Middle Atlas and Oulmes Rommani (Loans
1602-, 1848-, 2082- and 2217-MOR, respectively) were designed to minimize
organizational and management problems experienced in the Mekne3 project and show
satisfactory progress (Loukkos and Fes-Karia-Tissa are completed) except that
the completion dates have been extended due to delays caused by economy-wide
financial problems. In the Fes-Karia-Tissa project, although the agricultural
components had been successfully executed, the project has suffered particular
delays because of the slow implementation of the component for water supply to
difficult access areas.
2.22        Forestry. Technically, the implementation of the Forestry I project
(Gharb-Mamora, Loan 2110-MOR) has been successful and most of its technical
objectives were met although it also has suffered delays due to budgetary short-
ialls imposed by Morocco's financial problems. Because of this, most physical
achievements  were below  targets.    The  Forestry  II project  has  started
successfully and is a sector-wide operation based on lessons and experiences from
the first project and from forestry components in the various rural development
projects.
2.23        Agricultural Sector Adjustment.   The first Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (&ML I) was extended in support of the first phase of the MTASAP
(para. 2.03 and 2.04), covering the actions to be taken during the initial
18 month period. The PPAR concluded that the loan met its main targets and
strengthened the agricultural reform process (see para. 3.02 for more details).
2.24        ASAL II continued the adjustment process started under ASAL I and
supported actions designed to: (a) liberalize the agricultural and food pricing,
marketing and trade regimes, (b) complete the restructuring of the public
expenditure program and (c) continue the streamlining of essential government
support services. There has been remarkable progress under the second Loan
although due to the large number and the complexity of the reforms, the
implementation has taken longer than initially estimated (for details see
para. 3.03). The third and final tranche is expected to be released in the fall
of 1991.



9-
III. SEC=OR ADJUSTMENT AND ISSUES
A. Sector Adjuatfmnt
3.01        During  implementation  of  the  Hedium-Term  Agricultural  Sector
Adjustment Program (MTASAP), the Government has focused its attention primarlly
on the identlfication aad resolution of sector policy issues. With the support
of the Bank through ASAL I and II, considerable progress has been made. Morocco
now ger.erally has a highly favorable policy environment in the agricultural
sector to which farmers have responded remarkably well. This is demonstrated
by the very rapid growth rate in agriculture since 1985 (para. 2.08), which has
contributed some 30 percent of the growth in GDP. As noted also, in 1989, for
the first time, agricultural exports surpassed those of phosphates to become the
leading source of foreign exchange earnings. There has also been a rapid (over
15 percent p.a.) increase in private investments. This performance ls due in
large measure to successful implementation of policy measures taken over the past
several years.
3.02        PbuL..1.  The first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL I)
was extended in support of the first phase of the MTASAP (para. 2.03), covering
the actions to be taken during the initial 18 month period, starting at the end
of 1985. Specific adjustments included a review of public expenditures, initial
adjustments in the prlces and incentives framework, improvements in agricultural
support services and marketing and improved operation of the price support
program. The loan also supported the studies and analysis to refine and complete
the adjustment process. The PPAR states that all covenants were complied with
and the loan was disbursed fully, six months ahead of schedule. According to
the PPAR, the program's primary objective was the generation of fiscal savings
through a reduction in subsidies. The audit report states that budgetary outlays
for agriculture were reduced by 25 percent over two years (although some decrease
was due to budget difflculties). Additional savings that, according to the PPAR,
were to be expected if reforms already underway to remove further subsidies were
carrled through, have also materialized. The loan initiated the agricultural
reform process and provided the framework for the Bank to work with the
Government to design the second phase of the reform program which continues
today.
3.03        Phasg-2.  The second phase of the MTASAP was supported by another
sector adjustment loan (ASAL II, effective July 1988). The progress made under
ASAL II is very impressive and is summarized below for major sectors of activity.
(a)   Fore1SO tgads liberalization ls progressing on schedule with 386 of
the 805 products subject to quantitative restrictions (List B)
transferred to the free list (List A). The complete elimination of
quantitative  restrictions  is  scheduled  for  1992.   The  trade
llberalization ls already contributing to an improved prices and
lncentives framework for agriculture, paving the way for a more
rational resource allocation and reduced burden on the budget.
(b)   Imnut  aKgetinu.  Subsidies on most agricultural inputs have been
eliLmnated or are being phased out.  The most important input,



- 10 -
fitancially, is fertilizer where subsidies amounted to DH 431 million
in 1985, equalling one-third of Government agricultural investment
expenditures.   The MTASAP required a gradual reduction in these
subsidies but the Government has gone much further and completely
freed pricing and trade and thereby eliminated all subsidies on this
input.
(c) The Government has been making steady progress in its attempt to
imorove the cost-recovery situation for irrigation water charges.
Relative to most countries, Morocco is doing extraordinarily well;
recoveries as a share of annual operations and maintenance costs in
1989 and 1990 were 105 percent. In addition, it is the Government's
policy to recover up to 40 percent of investment costs through a
fixed land betterment levy per ha, on farms larger than 5 ha. In
1989, recoveries for land betterment represented 108 percent of that
year's levies. There is a problem, however, of large unpaid drrears
which the Government seeks to collect. The Government has not yet
established realistic objectives nor an action plan for dealing with
these arrears. Ensuring the continuation of good collection rates
is critical to encourage farmers to economize on the use of scarce
water resources and to waste as little as possible. The ASIL would
support further progress in these areas (see para. 4.29).
(d) Cron Marketing. Producer prices for most agricultural crops such
as fruits, vegetables and livestock products (except whole milk with
3.5 percent fat content) are freely determined on the market.
Domestic marketing and price formation for all grains and flour has
been liberalized, with the exception of the part of bread wheat that
is subsidized at the consumer level. Quantitative restrictions on
imports of all cereals have already been removed under the trade
liberalization program described above.   For bread wheat,  the
existence of the consumer subsidy has made the deregulation process
more complex. Nevertheless, action has already been taken on the
consumer subsidy: the total quantity of subsidized flour has been
reduced and limited to 10 million quintals and is targeted to the
most disadvantaged among the population.   The Government has
confirmed its intention to continue the process of deregulation of
the remaining 15 percent of the domestic grain trade.
(e)   The MTASAP aims at increasing the efficiency of domestic magar
production, thus reducing the average production cost of sugar in
the country Action has been taken at all levels of the production-
consumptic trhiain to achieve this objective. First, producer prices
for sugar    ps have been reduced in real terms and consumer prices
of sugar have been substantially increased. Second, a five-year
action plan for domestic deregulation of sugar by June 1993, includes
measures designed to increase the efficiency of domestic sugar
production. The implementation of the program is generally making
good progress albeit that preparation of a final action plan, which
wlll be pursued under 'ERL 2, has taken longer than expected.
However, in anticipatioi .,i the plan, incentive premium payments to
farmers  have  been  frozen  /   their  1985  levels  and  gradual



- 11 -
disengagement of the State has begun at the producer level with
regards to input marketing and crop financing.
(f)   A study has been prepared to guide liberalization of the 041ble Ql
sector. Because of the complexity of the sector, this study is being
supplemented by additional consultant work before finalization of
a definitive deregulation plan. Considerable progress has again been
made and Government has confirmed its commitment to continue the
process of deregulation. In anticipation of the deregulation, MARA
has reduced producer prices for oil seeds in real terms.
(g)   Good progress has been made in the liberalization of the livestock
subsector which contributes over 40 percent of agricultural GDP.
Health services have now been transferred to the private sector in
84 zones (covering 30 percent of the cattle and 15 percent of the
sheep population) and artificial insemination services in 35 zones
(furnishing 52 percent of the total inseminations provided).
Similarly, the Government has transferred 40 (25 percent of the
total) natural breeding stations to the private sector. Some parts
of the country, however, remain untouched by this process and the
Government intends to privatize services in additional zones. This
process of liberalizatxon is supported under the proposed loan.
While the price of meat is free, the producer price of milk is fixed
by the Government. Under the ASALs, the Government introduced a
20 percent price differential between the peak and lean seasons to
better balance supplies over the course of the year.
(h)   Land Poligv. The lack of a comprehensive land policy has constituted
a certain constraint to agricultural development in Morocco. Even
with the establishment of sound sectoral and investment policies,
land policy constraints sometimes limit the ability of farmers to
increase productivity. This is particularly true for small farmers
in rainfed areas (although gaps remain, large-scale irrigation areas
under the ORMVAs already have a set of legislative instruments which
permit acceptable control of land affairs).   A new legislation
prepared under the ASAL I for rainfed areas has been submitted to
the Council of Government for review, prior to enactment by
Parliament.
3.04        As noted, the adjustment process has created a highly favorable
investment climate (para. 2.17 and 3.01). The Government has reconfirmed its
intention to continue the liberalization of the remaining cereal (bread wheat)
distribution system as well as the restructuring of the sugar and vegetable oil
sectors. Work in support of these sectors, and on trade liberalization, is also
being carried out as part of the preparation of the SAL 2 and the PERL 2 (sugar).
The remaining areas where the adjustment process is not entirely completed, i.e.
in the livestock sector and irrigatiorn water charges, are directly linked to the
agricultural investment program and under the direct control of MARA. Further
improvements in these sectors would be supported under the ASIL (para. 4.19 and
4.20)



- 12 -
B.   lssues In the ZnvSet Proess
3.05        The Government has also become increasingly aware of the need to
complement these policy reforms through an adequate level of investment in the
agricultural sector and through improved efficiency of investments. Recently,
with the support of the Bank, it has worked to identify policy and process
constraints affecting its agricultural investment program. The ASIL would also
support reforms to ease these constraints (paras. 4.11 ff).
Bget Ee3u-tion
3.06        The Government recognizes that even a well designed investment
program will be ineffective unless its budgetary process functions in an
efficient manner. The agricultural investment program currently faces two major
constraints concerning budgetary issues: (a) delays in the delegation of funds
to the agencies undertaking investments and delays in the expenditures by those
agencies and (b) lack of proper monitoring of budget commitments and
expenditures. The practice by the Moroccan administration to budget recurrent
expenditures in the investment budget poses a certain problem of lack of
transparency. Each of these is discussed below.
3.07        Delegation and Expenditure of Funds.  At present, funds cannot be
delegated to a particular agency until the agency has prepared a statement of
its commitments and payments from the previous year on a line item basis (a
process called consolidation). These statements must be cleared by each of the
hierarchical layers of MARA, by the provincial and ministerial delegates of the
Office of the Comptroller General (CGED), and by the CGED itself. Once this
process is completed, the responsible directorates of HARA allocate the new
budget to the implementing agencies under their control, obtain clearance from
MARA's Administrative Department (DAM) and CGED and, finally, delegate the funds.
3.08        As a result of this cumbersome process, few investment funds are
delegated before April of each year.   Thereafter,  funds are distributed
progressively until December. In the past, some delays in delegating funds from
HAM to the agencies were due to a lack of funds in the Treasury. This is now
less of a problem. Currently, other reasons contribute to the dblays such as
late starts and misunderstandings in the handling of the consolidation process,
complicated clearance procedures, poor preparation of documents and rejections
by the Comptroller for excessively detailed reasons. One result of these delays
is a bunching of payment orders in the last quarter of the year (45 percent of
orders in 1987 and 52 percent in 1988), leaving funds uncommitted at year-end
when they lapse, thus making it impossible to complete the planned investment
program. Although the bunching situation improved somewhat in 1989, 1990 was
worse than ever due to a late budget revision by Parliament. Much needs to be
done to ensure an efficient flow of funds.  The ASIL would require earlier
delegation of funds and standardized documents to facilitate the disbursement
process (see para. 4.12).
3.09        HUgIntofrng. MARA devotes considerable human and material resources
to monitoring and evaluation (K&E). It is done, however, primarily in an ad-
hoc fashion for specific activities and not on a comprehensive, sector-wide
basis. Apart from some well-monitored area development projects, the vast flows



- 13 -
of information generated are not focused, are often duplicative and are not
always relevant or timely.   One reason for these problems is that the
responsibilities for M&E are split between the DPAE, which provides M&E for the
investment budget, and the DM which keeps the accounts of the central
directorates and administers the recurrent budget. The dividing line between
the responsibilities of the two directorates is unclear. Another reason is that
both the DPAE and the DAA rely for much of their data on the technical
directorates which have set up reporting requirements to suit their own purposes.
The resulting information is heavily skewed towards technical issues and very
short on social and economic data.  A third cause of problems is that a
comprehensive statement on the use of budget funds is only prepared once every
year and then only ex post facto, about five months after the end of the fiscal
year. For these reasons, it is now virtually impossible for senior management
of MARA to monitor adequately the spending of budget funds and to take corrective
action as required to ensure their most efficient use. The ASIL would improve
the availability and timeliness of data by requiring submission of specific
information by specific dates (see paras. 4.14-4.15).
3.10        Recurrent Expenditures in the Investment Budget.  It is common for
a large proportion of recurrent expenditures to be allocated to the investment
budget because the recurrent budget is relatively fixed and does not
systematically provide for on-going needs of investment projects. This practice
has a number of consequences: cuts in investment levels may jeopardize the
operation and maintenance of projects; cross-sectoral arbitration between
investment projects and programs becomes difficult if substantial and unspecified
portions are devoted to on-going activities; and cost recovery targets for OW6
become meaningless if the costs of these activities are not known with some
precision. During negotiations, MARA, with a view to improve the transparency
of recurrent costs, confirmed its intentions to prepare an estimate for recurrent
costs in the investment budget by June 30, 1992.
Staffing and Organization of MARA
3.11        MARA plays a key role in all aspects of the agricultural investment
program, from identification of projects to budgeting, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation. In several important ways, the institutional structure of the
Ministry does not always permit the most efficient implementation of the
investment program. This is discussed below.
3.12        The most critical institutional issue facing MARA is that essential
technical personnel, particularly in the field, are in scarce supply while the
lower echelons of its services are overstaffed. For example, one directorate,
the DER, estimates that it has about 60 percent of the engineers and
40 percent of the technicians it requires. At the same time, the numbers of
unqualified staff are disproportionately high.   The 121 Extension Centers
responsible for agricultural extension in the field (para. 2.14) have a total
staff of 4,380 of whom 220 are engineers, 800 extension agents, 1,160 other
technicians, 400 administrative staff, and 1,800 drivers, watchmen and support
people. This structure is essentially the result of two problems. First, it
is virtually impossible to remove unproductive workers from the payroll. As a
case in point, there has been no adjustment in staff levels despite the transfer
of responsibility to the private sector for input distribution and for other



- 14 -
services. Second, the lack of technical career streams makes the recruitment
and retention of highly skilled technicians (outside of the management stream)
extremely difficult.
3.13        A  second  problem  facing  the  Ministry  has  to  do  with  its
organizational structure.   There are a number of departments with different
technical responsibilities which are not always well coordinated. As a result,
there is sometimes duplicatior of efforts or gaps in coverage.
3.14         ARA.'s role has changed in recent years as part of the adjustment
process and solutions to both the staffing and organizational questions should
be addressed within the context of the Ministry's operational objectives for
the 1990s. MARA has already started the process of reorganization. ASIL would
support furtaner work by MARA in the identification of its future staff and
organizational needs and possibilities for reform (see para. 4.17).
Project Selectio'
3.15        The MTASAP and ASAL I both emphasized the need to strengthes- the
investment selection process in the agricultural sector, particularly the need
to apply a systematic approach to investment programming.    Quantitative
methodologies for screening and ranking potential projects and programs have been
developed by the Moroccans and supported by ASAL II. MARA has made good progress
in using formal project selection criteria and generally the choice of projects
is efficient. With an investment program of some US$300 million a year, it is
important that the Government systematically apply acceptable criteria for the
selections of all projects.   The ASIL would encourage the use of objective
selection criteria (see para. 4.18).
IV.  THE   A
PART I. Objectives. Rationale and Overview
A. Objectives
4.01        Given the sound policy framework that exists in the agricultural
sector in Morocco following two successful adjustment loans, the main need at
this time is to improve the overall efficiency of the Moroccan investment program
and to couple this with policy reforms in selected areas. Consequently, the
primary objective of the proposed loan would be to support a well-conceived
investment program in Morocco's agricultural sector.   While the loan would
support MARA's entire 1991-92 investment program of US$640 million, it would
finance critical investments within the program; all new projects in the whole
of MARA's investment program, however, would be based on selection criteria that
have been agreed with the Bank. The ASIL would also promote essential reform
measures to improve the investment process as well as the effectiveness of the
investments. The loan complements efforts to promote private sector development
by supporting the Government in providing the necessary infrastructure, services
and policy environment to stimulate private initiative and to make it as
productive as possible.



v 15 -
4.02        The 1991-92 agricultural investment budget has an allocatlon of
investments which the Bank, after a detailed Agricultural Expenditure Review
(AER, para. 1.02) and after extensive discussions with the Government, considers
to be satisfactory. However, in the past, investment levels were low and those
funds that were included in the budget were frequently not available on a timely
basis, thereby reducing investment levels still further. It is important that
investment levels be sufficient to meet sector objectives including reaching the
poorer segments of the farming population.  Many of the investments are of
particular benefit to the poorer farmers in the rainfed areas. Investments most
at risk for budget cuts are those that are not financed by other donors, ot by
the Bank, as freestanding projects. Yet some of theae investments constitute
a core of essential baseline activities that are critical for rational
development of the sector.  This loan would make funds available to ensure
financing for such activities (see PART III of this chapter).
4.03        The ASIL would also focus on efforts to improve the investment
process within MARA, supporting reforms in budget execution, project selection
and institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture which is
responsible for activities related to preparing, monitoring and evaluating the
investment program. Weaknesses in this process have been a major constraint to
the smooth flow of available funds into the sector in the past. These reforms
are essential to ensure efficient financing for the program. The Bank has played
an important role in identifying these constraints and developing, with the
Government, the necessary responses. The ASIL would provide the impetus for
these actions to take place (see PART II-A of this chapter).
4.04        Finally, the ASIL would continue the Bank's on-going support for
policy reforms in the irrigation and livestock sectors that are required to
ensure that investments are used efficiently.
B. Rationale for Bank involvement
4.05        Over the past several years, the Bank has worked closely with the
Government to review and shape the public investment program in agriculture.
The ASIL would allow the Bank to continue to play a role in future investment
allocations, assisting in the orientation of expenditures towards subsectors or
activities of priority, and ensuring that MARA investments meet specific criteria
such as positive economic rates of return, positive environmental impacts and
positive equity effects. The loan would be effective during the last two years
of the current Plan period and would lay the basis for the preparation of the
next Five-Year Development Plan. Bank participation at this juncture would allow
it to play a role in the discussions on investment priorities for the 1990s.
The Bank is well suited for this role given its experience elsewhere in
investment reviews and investment loans which it can bring to bear in helping
Morocco develop, implement and monitor a sector investment program.
4.06        In addition and as noted above, Bank participation in the proposed
sector loan gives it the opportunity to continue to monitor and extend selected
reforms begun under the ASALs and which are directly under the control of MARA,
notably in the livestock and irrigation sectors.   The Bank has played an
important role in the sector dialogue with the Government and this loan would



- 16 -
build on these earlier efforts.   The ASIL would permit the Bank to open a
dialogue on sensitive topics not currently covered by Bank operations such as
land policy, agricultural education and livestock.
4.07        Finally, a number of the budgetary efficiency measures that would
be introduced under the ASIL would have an impact well beyond this specific
loan. In particular, they would benefit all other Bank-financed projects in
agriculture and the projects of other donors by eliminating many of the
constraints that have hindered efficient project implementation in the past.
C. Nain Fe-ates- and Comp     ts-
4.08        The proposed ASIL would provide support to Morocco's overall
agricultural investment program. Rather than finance a small percentage of each
line item of the total 1991-92 investment program, the loan would fund a number
of specific items in the Government's investment budget. These projects have
been selected because they constitute priority activities for the Government of
Morocco, they are not subject to any external donor financing and thus are most
at risk of budget cuts, and they are easy to disburse against. These investments
were initially selected by the Bank during the Agricultural Expenditure Review
and subjected to further screening during ASIL appraisal.
4.09        The Government's total 1991-92 agricultural investment program is
estimated at US$640 million. With US$200 million of external financing, the
Bank and other donors are supporting projects with a total cost of US$3?' million
for the same time period. From the remaining amount, Operating and Maintenance
(O&) and other recurrent costs items linked to specific investments estimated
at some US$185 million have been deducted. The ASIL would cover the full foreign
exchange cost of the remaining unfinanced part of the program (US$135 million
with a loan of US$50 million, which is equivalent to 8 perceit of the overall
agricultural investment budget (including taxes and duties).
4.10        To improve the efficiency of its investments, and further improve
the policy environment for such investments, the AS1L would support the
Government with the following programs:
(a)   Refer_Program
(i) Reforms in the Investment Process. The loan supports reforms
intended to improve the process by which investments are made
in the agricultural sector in three different areas:
-    budget  execution and monitoring,  including  faster
delegation of funds and better monitoring of budgetary
expenses;
- intitutions, including improvements in the staffing
and organizational structure of MARA; and



- 17 -
-     prolect selaction,  including greater use of formal
project selection criteria.
(it) LLvestock Sector Refoms. The loan would support the following
activities:
-     further privatization of services;
-     development of a sector strategy;
-     continuation of efficient milk pricing.
(iii) Irrigation-Water Man Recoveris.  The loan would support
the following activities:
-    preparation of action plan to improve recovery of water
charges;
-     improvement in accounting system of water charges.
(b)   Investment Comnonent
The loan would finance specific investments, in priority MARA
activities, including:
=     irorigatit,  including  both  large-  and  small-scale
projects;
-     other directly groductive activities, including area
development, forestry, and livestock;
-     sinort services, including research, extension, plant
protection, education and planning; and
-     other, including technology development and land policy.
PART II. Reform Measures
A. Reforms in the Investment Procesa
Eudjet Exacution
4.11        One of the principal reforms supported by the ASIL would be the
improvement of budget execution by MARA. Problems with the budget process have
been identified as a major constraint to efficient implementation of the
investment program. The principal constraints are: delays in the delega&1on
of funds and inadequate and untimely data for budget monitoring.
Tne Agricultural Expenditure Review made a number of recommendations to rLduce
these problems and the ASIL would support reforms in these areas as described
below.



- 18 -
4.12        Delegatign an  expeditue of fnds.  The Government's principal
objective in improving MARA's delegation of funds to its various agencies is to
give them sufficient time to spend budget allocations efficiently and to help
reduce the end-of-year bunching problem (paras. 3.07-3.08). The AER recognized
that a number of steps would need to be taken to improve the situation, but
recommended that MARA immediately eliminate late starts on the consolidation
process. MARA has begun to Implement this suggestion with considerable success.
The substantial improvement in 1990 confirms that funds can be released several
months earlier than they were in the past following this approach. As discussed
in paras. 3.07-3.08, some of the other causes for delay in the delegation of
funds are outside of the control of MARA. There are, however, still additional
steps that the Ministry could take to improve the situation. The ASIL sets
certain targets for further increasing MARM's efficiency in delegating the annual
budget as follows:
-     requests for clearance of at least 40 percent of the funds proposed
to be delegated by each directorate must be submitted to the
Comptroller General's Office in MARA (CED) by January 20 of each
year; and
-    at least 80 percent must be submitted by February 20 of each year.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these targets would be met.
4.13        Another bottleneck to the efficient spending of investment funds
has been the multitude of procurement processes and documents that are frequently
rejected by the Comptroller's Office (CED). During preparation of the ASIL, the
Bank worked with the Government to draw up a set of standardized procurement
documents. These models have now been completed by MARA and have been submitted
to the Bank for approval.
4.14        Monitoring. The Government seeks to improve the ability of MARA's
management to monitor the budget expenditures of its different services in an
efficient manner. The difficulties MARA experiences at present are described
In para. 3.09.   The ASIL would support several measures to facilitate the
monitoring process.
4.15        First, HARA would issue a Ministerial circular clearly establishing
that the DPAE would be responsible for day-to-day monitoring of budget
commitments and expenditures. The circular would also specify the data to be
submitted to the monitoring agency and the timing of such submissions. Second,
to reduce the delays in preparation of budgetary statements, assuracs were
obtained at negotiations that:
-    DPAE would generate monthly statements on:  (a) funds delegated;
(b) funds committed (including both contracts submitted to the CED
and contracts approved by CED); and (c) amounts submitted for
payment;
-    when CED closes its books on the ?2nd of each month (the 25th for
salaries), MARA's services would do likewise;



- 19 -
HMARA' s agencies would ensure that the DPAE receives the monthly
statements for committed and spent funds from all agencies no later
than the 20th of the following month;
DPAE would submit a synthesis of monthly statements to the Minister
by the end of the month following the one to which the accounts
pertain;   late submissions would not be allowed to delay the
synthesis; and
-    notwithstanding the above, during 1991 and 1992, the statements would
be prepared on a quarterly basis for trial purposes using the same
deadlines at the end of each quarter.
4.16        Budget _Excution Study. While the budgetary reforms discussed above
are ambitious, the Government's medium-term objectives include streamlining the
budget execution process even further and promoting better institutional
collaboration on budgetary issues. As a consequence, the ASIL would finance the
preparation of a Budget Execution Study under the supervision of a Budget
Execution Monitoring Committee (para. 5.17). The study would identify additional
steps for Government action and provide a unique forum for raising and resolving
any problems concerning procurement, commitment and expenditure of funds. The
study would also promote close collaboration of HARA with the Ministry of
Finance's Budget Division, the Treasury General and the Comptroller General.
A manual on the budget execution process would be prepared as part of the study.
Terms of reference for the study have already been prepared and the consultants
have been selected. AssurAnce were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would carry out such a study by March 31, 1992 to develop a program for the
further rationalization of the budget execution process.   Employment of the
consultants for this study would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
Staffing and Organization ofHAIM
4.17        The  Government's  medium-term  objective  is  to  improve  the
organizational structure of HAU and, in particular, to raise the productivity
of its staff. As discussed in paras. 3.11-3.14, there is overstaffing at the
lower levels of the Ministry and shortages of key technical and professional
personnel at the higher levels. There is also a need to develop a technical
career stream. The staffing problem cannot be completely soived by MARA alone
because many of the necessary solutions are beyond the purview of the Ministry
and would have repercussions on the whole civil service. Nevertheless, as a
first step, MARA needs to identify precisely where its problems lie and make
recommendations for concrete actions to solve those which are within the
Ministry's competence.   Under the project, MARA would execute a study to
strengthen the organization of the Ministry and the efficient utilization of its
human resources. The study, would define the services to be provided by MARA
during the upcoming decade, examine the organizational structure of the Ministry,
review existing staff by grade and function, determine any mismatch with future
needs, and make recommendations for actlons that the Government could take to
improve the situation.



- 20 -
Prolect Selesti
4.18        The Government seeks to strengthen the investment planning process
in all sectors through greater use of formal project selection criteria
(para. 3.15).   In 1988,  it established an Inter-Ministerial Project Pre-
Selection Committee to ensure that all major new projects that entered into the
budget would be reviewed for their economic viab..ity. MARA has expanded this
effort and adopted a number of different criteria fe- project selection. As
noted, the Bank has examined all investments in MARA's 1991 and draft 1992
investment program and has found these to be satisfactory. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that all new MARA investment projects (whether financed
by the Bank or not) for 1991 and 1992 would be evaluated on the basis of criteria
agreed with the Bank and that projects exceeding DH 50 million (US$6 million)
would be  subject  to a  formal  appraisal  report.    The  criteria  include
consideration of:  (a) the economic rate of return (which should be at least
12 percent or the project should be justified on other grounds); (b) financial
feasibility; (c) impact on the environment; and (d) social and human resource
development effects.  It was also agreed that quantitative economic criteria
would not have to be applied to continuous services provided by MARA in the
investment budget, such as agricultural education, research, extension, pest
control, land titling, etc. The ASIL would monitor the application of these
criteria for project selection purposes during the annual budget reviews.
B.  Livestock Sector Reform
4.19        As discussed in Chapter&  II and III,  the Government has made
considerable headway on a number of policy fronts as part of the MTASAP.
Nonetheless, there are still issues outstanding in some subsectors notably in
the livestock and irrigation subsecters, where further reforms are necessary to
ensure the efficient use of investvc-at funds.   Livestock is an area where
significant progress has been made un-iSr the ASALs but where there remains scope
for additional advancenents (see pas:. 3.03).   The Government has focused
primarily on the privatization of Govenrwent services for health ard for genetic
improvement. The Government's record on t;.iese issues has been pax.-Lcularly good
and it intends to complete this effort. in the near future. Under the ASIL,
further progress in this area would be s.ade. The fee levels paid to private
veterinarians are i,lanned to be reviewp& and cost recovery for vaccinations,
especially against non-epidemic diseases, zs expected to be considered as part
of the annual consultations. Under the AzAis, the Government has also begun to
tackle price policy for milk (meat prices are freely determined, in principle:
para. 3.03). Under the ASIL, the price differential for milk during the peak
and lean seasons would be maintained.  The remaining issues in the subsector
have not been as well identified and a reform strategy has not yet been
developed. The ASIL would support the developmaent of a livestock sector strategy
for this purpose. Actions to be taken under the loan include:
-    development of an action plan for further privatization of remaining
Government heailth centers and services for genetic improvement by
October 31, 1991;



- 21 -
-    maintenance of a 20 percent differential for mllk prices during peak
and lean seasons;
-    preparation of a livestock sector strategy.
^assUXAal were obtained at negotl3itions that MARA would develop and implement
a strategy to further strengthen the livestock and dairy sectors, including
measures for further privatization of services and the application of a rational
milk pricing policy.
C. Xrriaation Water CNras
4.20        Large-scale irrigation accounts for 55 percent of MARA's total
investment program. It is, therefore, important that issues related to the
efficiency of irrigation and water use are tackled under the ASIL.   The
Government has been successful in progressively increasing cost recoveries for
C*K; its collections now cover over 100 percent of operating and maintenance
costs.  However, this does not cover arrears.  The Government now needs to
develop an action plan to handle the remaining arrears, identifying those which
are recoverable, over what period, and those which are not.   As current
accounting methods used by the ORMVAs do not allow a close observation of cost
recoveries, the ORNVAs would implement a modest package of measures designed to
render the accounting of water charges more transparent and permit the monitoring
of their recovery. The accounting measures would permit the ORMVAs to undertake
a more meaningful analysis of arrears and write-off process; and the
establishment of sound recovery targets f'r current water fees. The proposed
second Large-Scale Irrigation Impr-vement (LSII) project would support the
Government in these efforts. Until this loan becomes operational, the ASIL would
support the introduction of necessary accounting measures and would continue to
monitor recovery rates. The calculation of cost recovery for the purpose of ASIL
monitoring would exclude arrears. Specifically, the actions to be taken under
the ASIL would be:
the development of an action plan by January 31, 1992 with specific
objectives for treatment of arrears and improvement of cost recovery
rates, and a timetable for meeting them;
-     the recruitment of professional accounting specialists, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to define the necessary
accounting improvements.
fifgurAnoeV were obtained at negotiations that MARA would develop and carry out
a program to improve the accounting of water charges and implement a program
for their recovery and for the elimination of arrears owed by the users.



- 22 -
PART III. The bnemnt  rg
A. Xntro-d-uotion
4.21        Over the last few years, the Bank has worked closely with the
Ministry of Agriculture in defining the priority investments to be included in
the annual budgets. First this was done in the framework of the SAL (1988)
where MARA's whole budget was included in the core investment program.  The
budget dialogue intensified during the Agriculture Expenditure Review (AER) in
1989 when the priorities were re-examined. The Bank and the Government agreed
that the ASIL would finance the last two years of the Plan period, namely 1991
and 1992. During the appraisal of the ASIL in 1990, the 1991 and 1992 budgets
were subject to detailed discussions and analysis, and the final screening was
made of items and projects to be financed under the ASIL. The ASIL would not
provide supplementary financing to substitute for Government funds in foreign
financed projects or programs, but would be disbursed against items without any
donor assistance.
4.22        The paragraphs that follow describe briefly NARA's entire 1991-1992
public investment program which is supported by the ASIL. Within each section,
the report describes the actual items/projects against which the loan will be
disbursed. Details of items/projects to be financed are contained in Annex 2.
4.23        The summary Table 4.1 below shows MARA's total investment budget
for 1991-92. The investment budget allocations between subsectors follow trends
which are broadly consistent with the GOM's and the Bank's priorities.
Investment budget funds have shifted towards the rainfed secter and areas where
Morocco has a comparative advantage and away from irrigation.   Irrigation
investments were 74 percent of total sector investments in 1979, and 62 percent
in 1991 and 1992.  Irrigation, however, remains the most important subsector.



- 23 -
able 4.L  MARA BUDGET SUKDARY
(DH Million)
Item                         1991      1992     Total           X
2  IR2SX;gRWP N             1,230     1,926     3,156          62
Small-scale  (DER)          148       196       344           7
Large-scale (ORMVAs)      1,082     1,730     2,812          55
NON-IRRIGATION                946     1,015     1,961          38
Crop production (DPV)       161       162       323           6
Extension (DVRA)             74        90       164           3
Forestry (DEFCS)            177       177       354           7
Livestock (DE)              119       120       239           5
Plant prot'n. (DPVCTRF)      49        53       102           2
Education/Res. (DEAR)        73        88       161           3
Research (INRA)              78        76       154           3
Technology Devlpmt (FDA)    90        125       215           4
Planning (DPAE)              30        28        58           1
Land policy (DCFTT)          95        96       191           4
Total                     2,176     2,941     5,117         100
Totals may diverge slihtly due to rounding
B. Small- and MedLum-Scale Irrigation and Rural Enjineering (DERR
4.24        The Government's objectives for the irrigation subsector are to give
preference to quick maturity, high return investments. As a consequence, the
main priorities in the subsector are to: (a) rehabilitate traditional schemes
and postpone the construction of new, modern, more expensive facllities;
(b) ensure the maintenance of existing, already rehabilitated schemes;
(c) improve the recurrent funding of the services; and (d) increase the research
and equipment testing program on irrigation systems.
4.25        The Government's long-term objectives include rehabilitation of
250,000 hectares (65 percent of existing traditional schemes) of small- and
medium-scale irrigation (SMSI) schemes over 20 years. The Bank is assisting the
Government in doing this with two SMSI projects and through the agricultural
sector adjustment operations. As part of this effort, detailed criteria for
the selection of small- and medium-scale irrigation projects for financing under
the present plan period have been developed (para. 3.15). The program also
involves the creation of water user associations responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the networks and for cost recovery. A law proving for the
establishment of these associations has just been promulgated.
4.26        The main components of the 1991-92 DER investment budget, which
amounts to DH 344 million, are the Bank financed SMSI 2 project (68 percent),
feasibility studies (9 percent), other SMSI (8 percent), flood damage and other
repair and maintenance and construction works (11 percent) and research and



- 24 -
experimentation (1 parcent).   DER also serves as the central mlnlsterlal
controlling dlrectorate for the ORNVAs and as such contains some funds for
adminLstratLon of the Bank's LSII project budget (4 percent). Details are ln
Table 4.2 below.
TabliLL2 DER BUDGET SUN MRY
(DH '000)
Item                         1991       1992     Total        X
Bank financed SMSI 2        85,805   149,238   235,043        68
Feasibility studles         16,785    14,575    31,360         9
Support to Bank LSII 1       8,165      5,155    13,320        4
Small-scale works            9,440      7,250    16,690        5
Admln. infrastructure        8,830      4,630    13,460        4
Neckor SMSI                  2,760      2,570     5,330        2
Sahara SSI                  2,875      1,325     4,200        1
Flood damage repairs         7,860      8,660    16,520        5
Maintenance of SMSI           3,915     1,265     5,180        2
Research & Experiment.       1.435   1.,265       2.700       -
Total                    147,870   195,933   343,803       100
4.27        The ASIL would finaem  important activities which still lack other
external funding because of their small and scattered nature. Thus, the Loan
would finance about 3,000 hectares of additional SMSI works11 each year and
feasibility and design studies for future rehabilitation of irrigation
facLlities. The Loan would also finance the completion of major works on the
Neckor Irrigation Scheme which covers some 5,000 hectares. Equipment and costs
of training key staff would be provided for DER's experimental unit.
C. LarKU-Seale Irrigation (9 ORIVAsIW
4.28        As a result of the 1981-85 budget crisis, investment priorities in
large-scale irrigation have shifted from the construction of new schemes with
long Lmplementation periods to quick-yielding works, namely to:   (a) the
completion of ongoing projects for which head structures (mainly storage dams)
are already in place; and (b) the rehabilitation and repair of existing
infrastructure (thls latter reflecting previous lack of maintenance).
4.29        The main vehicles for Bank assistance to the Government in this
effort have been the Large Scale Irrigation Improvement project (LSII) and ASAL
I and II. ASAL I (FY86) supported improvements in the management, autonomy and
3/    Some additional SMSI would also be financed within the ORMVA territory
(para. 4.31).
If    Also including small-scale works located within the ORMVA territory.



- 25 -
financial viability of the ORMVAs. The LSII project (FY86) was designed to help
implement and to complement the reform package under the ASAL I and provided
finance for the rehabilitation or upgrading of existing irrigation infrastructure
serving about 150,000 hectares. The ASAL II program (FY88) has begun to address
the issue of full recovery of water costs.
4.30        The Government has  established  specific  criteria  for  ranking
investment priorities within the large-scale irrigation subsector, based
primarily on an economic analysis. O&M activities are being strengthened through
institution building. staff training and the preparation of O&M guidelines. Good
progress has already been made in this regard. The Government is now giving
consideration to the shifting of maintenance contracts to the private sector.
As a first step, the maintenance of pumping stations by private contractors is
contemplated. Under the Bank programs, the ORMVAs have already been divested
of commercial activities such as input delivery, agricultural credit and
veterinary services.   A major effort is also underway to strengthen the
organization of each of the ORMVAs with the establishment of a management
information system including effective computerized cost accounting systems using
financial ratios and new budgeting procedures.   Once these new accounting
procedures have been developed and put into operation, in order to increase the
ORMVAs' accountability and to render their operations more transparent, the
Government intends to negotiate program contracts which clearly distinguish
between activities which should be self-financing (e.g., O&M) and others which
are more in the nature of a public service (e.g., extension).
4.31        The total large-scale irrigation budget for 1991-92 amounts to
DH 2.8 billion and is shown for each ORMVA in Table 4.3 below. Some 60 percent
of the budget goes to irrigation equipment, 20 percent for the Bank-financed LSII
project and about 3-5 percent each for equipping the services and support to
agricultural and livestock production in the ORMVA areas. Since the ORKVAs are
geographically defined, they are also responsible for small and medium-scale
irrigation within their jurisdictions, using some 4 percent of the budget for
this purpose. The allocation of funds is in line with the investment priorities
stated above.
Table 4.3. ORNVA BUDGET SUUMNRY
(DH 000)
ORMVA                         1991        1992       Total          X
Moulouya                     55,500      51,800      107,300        4
Gharb                       145,100     191,900     337,000        12
Doukkala                    292,300     468,000     760,300        27
Haouz                       292,300     468,000      760,300       27
Tadla                        33,800      34,120       67,920        2
Ouarzazate                   33,000      16,900       49,900        2
Tafilalet                    31,300      35,700       67,000        2
Souss Nassa                 107,500     137,000     244,500         9
Loukkos                      91_500     326.800     418300        -12
Total                   1,082,300   1,730,220   2,812,520       100



- 26 -
4.32        32h  ASIL would finaCE the rehabilitation of infrastructure and
equipment in eight of the nine ORMVAs, namely: Loukkos, Gharb, Doukkala, Tadla,
Haouz, Souss-Massa,  Ouarzazate  and Tafilalet.   The works would  include
rehabilitation of existing large-scale systems and the construction of some new
small-scale systems within the ORMVA territories at an estimated total cost of
DH 186 million. Current maintenance programs would not be part of the project.
More specifically, the project would include the following sub-components which
are attractive because of their quick returns:
(a)   minor rehabilitation works on the LSI systems, amounting to a total
of DH 81.1 million;
(b)   major rehabilitation works on two existing schemes (Doukkala-Faregh
and Tadla-Beni-Amir) estimated at DH 46 million; and
(c)   construction  of  new  SMSI  systems  at  an  estimated  cost  of
DH 59 million.
D. Services to Cron Production (DPV. DYRA and DPVCTRF)
4.33        Services to crop production are essentially provided by three
directorates:   DPV, DVRA and   DPVCTRF.   DPV undertakes area development
activitiesV, including infrastructure development, land consolidation and
schemes for the intensification and diversification of specific crops. DVRA is
charged with extension services to farmers as well as land reclamation and
development (other than irrigation, e.g., destoning).   Finally, DPVCTRF is
responsible for plant protection, ensuring seed quality and for the repression
of fraudulent practices.
4.34        Bank assistance aimed specifically at policy measures or investments
designed to increase crop production has been provided by the two adjustment
operations, by five area development projects and by an agricultural research
and extension project (para. 2.19). Under these projects, in the last five
years, the role of the DPV and DVRA has changed from one of operating a
subsidized machinery contracting service and of distributing inputs, to one of
actively promoting the introduction of more efficient technology, thus
transferring most of the costs to the private sector. The extension service is
being strengthened following a master plan prepared under ASAL II.   The
consolidation and restructuring of farm land into homogeneous land blocks is an
important new program in view of the need to create viable agricultural
production units with the necessary road infrastructure and operated by owners
who have an interest in long-term investments in the land. These schemes are
on a voluntary basis and lots are simply shifted between farmers and therefore
involve no farmers being dispossessed of land. DPV is the coordinating agency
for a first tranche of a 60,000 hectares land consolidation program in rainfed
/    lIWhile Bank experience with integrated area development projects in many
other countries has not always been successful, such projects have
generally worked well in Morocco.



- 27 -
areasV. The national program would eventually cover 500,000 hectares, planned
over 20 years.  The investment program under this heading is presented below
under each of the three directorates concerned.
Crop Production Investmenta (DpVy
4.35        The 1991-92 investment program for area development and other
infrastructural works and related activities in support of crop production
executed by the DPV amounts to DH 323 million (Table 4.4). The major part
(75 percent) of investment funds are for integrated area development projects,
including the Bank financed Oulmes Rommani and three other externally-financed
projects.   Yn such projects, funds are mainly used for land reclamation and
development, crop diversification, range development, roads and various other
infrastructure. Land consolidation and restructuring require 8 percent of budget
funds at this point but will need larger allocations once the program has passed
the pilot stage and has gathered full momentum.   "Sectoral interventions'
(9 percent) are investments in support of intensification and diversification
of crop rotations, to reconstitute date palm areas and to promote crop storage
and small agro-industries through demonstrations.   Fruit tree plantations
(1 percent) are carried out by the farmers under MARAMs supervision following
a methodology which was successfully tested under a Bank-financed area
development project (Loukkos, see also para. 4.45).
WahI 4.4. DPV BUDGET SUMMARY
(DH '000)
Item                          1991      1992     Total          X
Integr. dry land projects  122,600   118,080   240,680         75
Land consolidation           10,500    15,000    25,500         8
Sectoral interventions       14,630    14,650    29,280         9
Constr. & equip. infrastr.   4,150      4,650     8,800         3
Studies                       3,220     3,120     6,340         2
Fruit tree development        2,300     2,295     4,595         1
Poor farmer & disaster aid  4.000       4000Q  8.000            2
Total                     161,400   161,795   323,195       100
4.36         The ASIL would finance:  (a) land development activities in areas
previously subject to area development interventions and where effective
implementation teams have been created; (b) new approaches to the execution of
infrastructure works such as soil conservation, rural roads etc., involving the
rural communes and beneficiaries more directly; (c) the re-establishment of date
palm plantations in the Ouarzazate and Tafilalet provinces, which have been
destroyed by the "bayoud" disease (see also par.A 4.54); (d) the continuation
J1    Other directorates involved are the DVRA, the DCFTT and the DER which
form a committee chaired by the Minister.



- 28 -
of the 35,000 hectares pilot land consolidation project now underway in four
provinces (Taza, Khemisset, Fes and Tetouan) and field studies for the first
60,000 hectares of the country-wide program (para. 4.34); and (e) a series of
development studies designed to identify new techniques or provide the basic
resource data foz development actions. These studies would include a study on
the conception and execution of the land consolidation program in readiness for
the 500,000 hectares long-term program to be launched in 1993.
Agricultural Extension Service (MM)
4.37        The 1991-92 budget for agricultural extension services and related
activities and for land development executed -by the DVRA, amounts to
DH 164 million (Table 4.5.). Sixty-two percent of budget funds are planned for
the improvement of the extension service of which over four-fifths is for the
Bank-financed extension component of the research and extension project. Land
development, which accounts for nearly 20 percent of budget funds, is mainly for
destoning, a new program which was successfully tested under the El Hajeb
integrated development project. Under this program, heavy rocks and stones are
brought to the surface mechanically by MARA (30 percent of costs) and are removed
using farmer labor as his contribution in kind. The program has high returns
and, because of the structure of holdings, has been particularly beneficial to
small farmers.   Some two to three million hectares have been identified as
warranting destoning. The DVRA budget also includes a component for 'Chambres
d'agriculture' (5 percent) which is an effort based on French experiences to
transfer part of the cost for agricultural extension to the private sector.
T8blAe4.5! DVRA BUDGET SUMMARY
(DH '000)
Item                              1991      1992     Total         X
Bank financed ext. proj.         42,000    42,000    84,000        51
Extens. infrastr. & equip.        7,600    10,000    17,600        11
Land development                  8,000    23,600    31,600        19
Constr. & equip. infrastr.        2,900     2,800      5,700        3
Studies & surveys                 3,500     3,800      7,300        5
Chambres d'agriculture            5,000     3,500      8,500        5
Cooperative development           4.800     4.200      9.000        6
Total                          73,800    89,900   163,700       100
4.38        The ASIL would finance the semi-mechanical destoning of about
3,000 ha.  Important studies, notably one to recommend improvements in the terms
and conditions of employment for extension staff would also be financed under
the Loan.



- 29 -
Plant Protection (DPVCTRP=.
4.39        The task of the plant protection directorate includes, in addition
to plant protection, seed and seedling control and control of fraudulent
practices. DPVCTRF's pest control program is primarily confined to state-owned
land (forest pests) or pest populations that are frequently shifting or where,
for other reasons, reliance on private initiative does not give satisfactory
protection. The critical importance of the services provided by the DPVCTRF may
be illustrated by an estimate that one-third of crop production world-wide is
lost due to pests. Through permanent monitoring of meteorological, biological,
phenological and crop status conditions, the directorate is also responsible for
issuing early warnings of potential pest attacks and making recommendations for
judicious pest control. It manages national laboratories for seed and plant
analysis and a seed and plant certification bureau. The division for fraudulent
practices is charged with controlling quality and quantity of agricultural
products, inputs and materials, and ensuring inter alia their conformity with
established norms. The DPVCTRF has never been directly associated with a Bank
supported project and the ASIL would permit the initiation of a dialogue in this
important area. Its investment program is well conceived and the investment
budget for 1991-92, which has no external financing, amounts to DH 102 million
and is shown in Table 4.6 below.
Table 4.6. DPVCTRF BUDGET SUN MRY
(DH '000)
Item                          1991      1992     Total         X
Rodent & bird control        18,590    15,350    33,940        33
Forest pest control           5,445    13,000    18,445        18
Constr. & equip. infrastr.   6,700      6,700    13,400        13
Plant protection              7,050     5,250    12,300        12
Seed control                  7,340     7,000    14,340        14
Fraud control & other        3.475    6.300    9.775           10
Total                      48,600    53,600   102,200       100
4.40        The ASIL would finance the necessary equipment that the DPVCTRP is
lacking for its program including:  protective equipment, laboratory and quality
control equipment, and certain modern safe appl cat'on equipment for laboratory
research, seed certification, control of pests (p'eSticides, however, would not
be financed) and of fraudulent practices.
E. Forestg! and Soil Conservatlon (DRFCS)
4.41        Virtually all of Morocco's natural forests are state-owned and the
technical responsibility of the DEFCS. Priorities in the sector are:
(a) protection and conservation of the natural forest through measures against
deforestation, soil erosion and desertification; (b) maintenance of forest cover
by demarcation of the forest estate, by rationalization of wood exploitation and



- 30 -
forest range uianagement and by an increase in the regeneration of the natural
forest and in plantation establishment; and (c) for this purpose, Improvement
In forest infrastructure and strengthening of forest management based on forest
inventory studies and the preparation of forest management plans.   Other
important responsibilities and investment priorities of the DEFCS are inland
fishing, hunting and nature conservation.
4.42        The Bank has assisted the Government in the subsector, first with
forestry components in four of its rural development projects and then with its
Forestry I project (FY82). More recently, and drawing on the experience from
these projects, the Bank prepared a forestry sector project which is being
financed by the Bank and the AfDB under two separate loans. Together, these two
projects account for three quarters of DEFCS investment budget and constitute
the main vehicle by which the Government pursues its forestry objectives. The
Forestry II (FY90) project aims at strengthening forestry planning and policies
and assisting Morocco in maintaining its forestry potential and meeting the
country's wood needs and protecting its watersheds. Specific investments include
the demarcation and regeneration of natural forests, plantation establishment
and watershed management. The project also includes an organizational study that
aims to help DEFCS adapt to the changing demands on the services provided,
essentially from forest protection to active natural resource management. DEFCS
organization is being strengthened by the recruitment of, inter alia,
professionals in social subject matters to better allow for the socio-economic
aspects of forests and to permit a more educated cooperation with the populations
that constitute the root cause for the accelerating deforestation of the country.
A forestry extension program is being organized using, to the extent possible,
MARA's existing agricultural extension service. A forest inventory under the
project has already started and forest management plans are being prepared, fully
integrating nature conservation concerns. A nature conservation unit has been
established for this purpose.
4.43        Despite these measures, Morocco is faced with rapid deforestation
and it is estimated that, each year, the extraction of wood (mostly illicit for
fuelwood) exceeds the forest's reproductive capacity by a factor of three. In
addition to DEFCS program, the Government, with Bank assistance, is making
efforts to stimulate forest investments outside of the central government budget
and an increasing share is now being supported by the local communities.
Measures being taken under the Forestry II project also include steps to promote
private sector investments in forestry. Nevertheless, public investment needs
remain substantial. DEFCS investment budget is shown in Table 4.7 below. The
substantial reductions shown for several items reflect their absorption into the
Bink and AfDB financed projects.



- 31 -
Table 4.7.. DEFCS BUDGET SUMYR
(DH '000)
Item                             1991      1992     Total        X
Bank Forestry II project        69,359   103,023   172,382      49
AfDB Nat. Res. Conserv. proj.  26,130    65,774    91,904       26
Reforestation                   49,700     5,120    54,820      15
Soil & water conservation        9,452     1,000    10,452       3
Fish, hunt. & natur. conserv.  11,545          0    11,545       3
Forest management                2,633     1,000     3,633       1
Constr. & equip. infrastr.       6,750     1,500     8,250       2
Research & studies              1..42          0      1.842     _1
Total                        177,411   177,417   354,828    100
4.44        The ASIL would finance important activities not included in the
Forestry II or AfDB projects because of their dispersed nature.  The ASIL would
finance the preparation of additional forest management plans following the same
criteria as in Forestry II. Further plantations would be established on the
equivalent of about 7,000 hectares of land to replace old plantations or on scrub
land, mainly with eucalypts and pines. Models similar to those developed for
Forestry II would be used and necessary fire-breaks and forest roads would also
be provided.
4.45        The Government has attempted to encourage better land use and crop
diversification on private lands through the extension service and through
investments in fruit tree planting. Following discussions with the Bank, the
earlier schemes to subsidize fully all operations on private farms have been
replaced with a scheme in which plants are provided free and t'.a DEFCS approves
the site and traces and stakes the area; all other operations are performed by
the farmer without charge to the administration (para. 4.35). The ASIL would
support the distribution of 2 million fruit tree seedlings to permit the planting
of the equivalent of some 20,000 hectares by private farmers.
P. Li 3stock
4.46          Present priorities in the livestock sector are:   (a) improved
animal health through privatized veterinary services, supported with investments
in better laboratories and research; (b) improvements of rangelands and local
fodder supply; and (c) strengthening of breeding efforts.
4.47        The Bank has no freestanding livestock projects but has assisted
the sector with livestock components in its integrated area development projects
and with the sector adjustment loans.   With the support of ASAL II, the
Government began to liberalize the sector. The Government has moved away from
subsidized inputs for livestock production and has eliminated price controls on
high value animal feed such as sugar beet pulp and wheat bran. This is expected
to shift production towards more efficient forage based systems. As noted in
para. 4.19, the Government is in the process of further privatizing services to



- 32 -
the livestock sector where possible (certain services need to stay under
Government control, for example, for the eradication of contagious animal
diseases).
4.48        The 1991-92 investment budget for livestock allocates 43 percent of
the funds for animal health of which about 55 percent is for large-scale
vaccination campaigns and 38 percent for equipment of laboratories and the
strengthening of the research program. Genetic improvement is given 16 percent
of funds and better arnimal nutrition and pasture development 10 percent. The
IFAD financed project (25 percent of funds) also ircludes these various
investment categories.
ZblA 4L.8 DE BUDGET SUMMARY
(DH '000)
Item                           1991      1992     Total          X
Animal health                 51,960    51,960   103,920        43
Animal nutrition, pasture    12,340    12,340    24,680         10
Genetic improvm., product.   18,837    18,837    37,674         16
Marketing, inspection          7,010     7,010    14,020         6
IFAD pastoral project        -29.453   229453    58.906         25
Total                     119,600   119,600   239,200       100
4.49        The ASIL would finance the studies to develop the livestock strategy
(para. 4.19) and provide laboratory and other technical and computing equipment
required for the animal health program. Inputs for the vaccination campaigns
would also be included. For the animal feeding program, the ASIL would finance
consultant studies as well as works and equipment to improve priority range
lands. Finally, the ASIL would finance technical equipment, field staff housing,
studies and technical assistanc-e for the genetic improvement program.
G. Edgucation and Research
Agricultal Eduatio
4.50          Ovarall responsibility for agricultural education and research is
vested in DEAR, although it is carried out by numerous agricultural training
and research institutes. In the past, these institutes mainly trained students
for employment in the civil service. The continuing transfer of responsibilities
away from the public sector means that GOM has to reorient agricultural education
and training to meet the needs also of the private sector, where requirements
are different.   This, and the need to otherwise modernize the agricultural
education system, are behind the Government strategy to: (a) upgrade the 4-year
'ingenieur d'application' program to a 6-year 'ingenieur d'etat' curriculum;
(b) raise the level of technician training by requiring higher education levels
at entry and by lengthening the study course; (c) establish vocational training
for workers; and (d) introduce agronomy courses in the secondary school
curriculum.



- 33 -
4.51        Table 4.9 below shows the DEAR investment program for 1991-92,
amounting to DH 161 million. The investments concern either improvement or
expansion of facilities and comprise construction, purchase of equipment and
materials, and studies. Investments in higher education are primarily motivated
by the addition of the third cycle of two years to the study programs and the
consequent increases in numbers of students and teachers. Investments in the
technical agricultural schools have become necessary because of the lengthening
of study courses to three yearj and the inadequacy of existing facilities,
especially for providing the vital field work. Professional training centers
need to be rehabilitated as well as expanded since their facilities are often
dysfunctional.
2abla 4&91 DEAR BUDGET SUHEARY
(DH '000)
Item                            1991      1992     Total         X
DEAR headquarters               8,595    12,500    21,095        13
ENFI forestry school            3,240     2,350     5,590         3
Train., res., study centers    5,571      8,500    14,071         9
Agricultural high schools       8,944    13,960    22,904        14
Profession. train. centers      2,870     4,700     7,570         5
Continuing educ. centers        5,630     8,200    13,830         9
Agricultural schools           14,365    13,250    27,615        17
IAV labs, equipment            14,450    15,000    29,450        18
ENA Meknes                      8,075     8,500    16,575        10
Prince Sidi M'd ag. school       127.00   1500Q -.3.200           2
Total                        73,440    88,460   161,900       100
4.52        The ASIL would finMnc  immediately key teaching equipment, the need
for which was identified during the AER and consultancy services in support of
DEAR's planming activities.  UNDP will finance a study to develop a better
understanding of the labor market for agricultural graduates at all levels, to
keep this understanding up to data and to translate the findings into operational
guidelines for future investments.  Terms of reference for this effort are
currently being discussed.
Agricultural Research
4.53           .. though agricultural research is carried out at several of the
institutes undei DEAR's budget, INRA is the only public agency exclusively
devoted to this purpose.  The GOM seeks to expand its research on issues
pertaining to rainfed agriculture and to shift the focus of INRA so as to target
farmers' needs more clearly in the national research program.
4.54        Four projects constitute the bulk of the investment program.  The
first, the research component of the Bank-financed Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (AREP, co-financed by the Bank, KfW, and France) supports the
management and organizational changes noted above and provides funding for five
top priority research programs. These are in cereals, rainfed forage, red meat,



- 34 -
oilseeds and olives and are consistent with assessments of Morocco's comparative
advantage.   The second,  a USAID-supported project in arid and semi-arid
agrLculture, provldes funding for equipment and operating costs of the Settat
research center, for out-station research and for trainlng scientists.  The
remaining two projects are the GTZ-supported forage project (which will be
integrated in the AREP) and the testing and provision of initial planting
material tolerant of the "bayoud" disease in date palms (para. 4.36). Since INRA
already has adequate financing for its projects and its implementation capacity
is limited, no funding for the institute is included in the ASIL.
BhJAJjl.Q  IIA BUDGET SUMDARY
(DH '000)
Item                              1991       1992     Total       X
Ag. Res. & Ext. proj. WB/KfW     40,000    40,000    80,000      52
Arid zone res. proj. USAID        8,760      8,820    17,580     11
Other                            29.i00    21,410    57.070    _7
Total                          78,360    76,290   154,650    100
B. Teaehnolo _ Developmet Pro am (FDA)
4.55        The Technology Development Program and the fund that supports it
were set up under the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL I) to
rationalize direct Government grant assistance for private investment and to
allow more precise targeting to economically viable activities. The objective
of the program is to provide financial leverage to promote private investments
in new and improved farming practices and in suitable agricultural equipment
which will lead to increased productivity, particularly on small and medium sized
farms in rainfed areas. The fund supporting the program is administered by the
DPAE; some of the funds are channelled through CNCA (where farmers also obtain
their credit). Schemes supported by the FDA are appraised by either MARA or CNCA
as appropriate.
4.56        The FDA program is targeted towards specific investments that play
a catalytLc role in (a) introducing a new technology which is demonstrated to
address key constraints to raising yields or labor productivity and *'hich has
been rarely used in the country at the time; (b) shifting support away from
direct government interventions for works which generally were financed
exclusively by Government to a situation in which the bulk of the investment
cost is borne by the farmers (for example, some land improvement works we-e, ln
the past, financed solely by Government); (c) improving efficiency of use of
limiting resources (e.g., water) or lnputs; and (d) addressing environmental
problems (e.g., erosion control).
4.57        The FDA has been reviewed by the Bank and it was found that the FDA
has sound objectives and that programs supported appear justified with viable
economic returns (para. 6.02). In 1990, for example, the program supported the



-35 -
purchase of numerous small tractors which had generally not been used by farmers
in Morocco; some 95 percent of these are estimated to have benefitted small
farmers.  Others were bought by farmer cooperatives.   The fund also helped
finance the purchase of a substantial amount of small machinery, much of which
represented newly introduced equipment that would have been too costly for small
farmers. In small- and medium-irrigation and drainage, FDA support went mainly
towards investments that, in the past, would have been financed solely by the
State or, again, would have been outside the financLal reach of small farmers.
These investments have thus been transferred from full state-financed
interventions to private farmers as Government successfully divests itself of
iTmestments in directly productive assets owned by private farmers. Finally,
the fund helps finance investments for land improvements and erosion control
which frequently also benefit others downstream.   Such investments include
construction of terraces and bunds, clearing of stones, and land clearing. These
works are usually confined to poorer lands owned by the weaker sections of the
rural populations.  A few FDA programs such as that for HYV seed and export
promotion appear to be less well justifLed and targeted.  Where there is any
doubt as to their justification, these programs would not be financed by the
Bank.  What is needed now, however, is a quantitative assessment and impact
evaluation of the FDA to evaluate the justification of each program against
objective criteria, to determine how well individual programs meet their social
and economic objectives, and to assess whether they are appropriately targeted
(para. 4.59). Table 4.11 shows the planned FDA budget for 1991-92.
2 1l.4  FDA BUDGET gummY
(DH '000)
Item                          1991      1992       Total        X
HYV seeds                    28,000    28,000    56,000        26
Equipment                    21,000    23,000    44,000        20
Irrigation & land improvm.    9,000    34,000    43,000        20
Export promotion             11,000    13,000    24,000        11
Refrigeration, storage        6,000    10,000    16,000         7
Intensif. llvestock prod.     7,450     7,450    14,900         7
Fruit tree seedlings          7,000      7,500    14,500        7
Soil tests                   1.000   1.50Q   2.500 _L
Total                      90,450   124,450   214,900       100
4.58        Bank support under this component would, therefore, be two-pronged:
fLrgt support to the clearly economically viable activities supported by the
program. This would enable the Bank to work with the program and thus work
closely with Government to carry out the second part -- the evaluation and
subsequent modLfication of the program, if necessary. Accordingly, £ba. A.SIL
wold helo finance items that appear well conceived and economically or
enmLronmentally justLfied, that is, where the program has already successfully
lntroduced new technologies by provlding leverage for private Livestments,
includlng: small tractors for Improved soil cultLvatioa and other specialized
small cultivation equipment, seeders and sprayers; soil analysis that, until



- 36 -
recently, has hardly been used in Morocco to assist farmers in analysis of soil
fertility; small-scale irrigation and drainage; equipment for more efficient crop
storage and processing; introduction of improved types of stock, housing and
feeding facilities for livestock production; fruit tree planting for crop
diversification;  and  land improvement  (destoning,  terracing,  etc).    The
Government's participation is limited to 20-30 percent of the investment cost
with an absolute ceiling for each category of technology in the 1991-92 program.
The ASIL would finance an amount representing the foreign exchange cost of the
technologies that it supports.
4.59        As noted, the ASIL oluld aglsofinance an impact evaluation of the
program, including assessment of successful activities for which funding should
be continued and identification of less successful activities for which funding
should be terminated. This review will enable the Government to streamline the
program, identify more precisely which group of farmers are benefitting from the
program (small, medium or large), identify whether the program is meeting its
objectives, and assess how the program should be changed over time. Consequently,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that MARA (a) would carry out an impact
study on the FDA program in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and would submit the study to the Bank for comments no later than
December 31, 1992; (b) would implement the recommendations made by the study and
agreed with the Bank.
I. land SurveXing and Titlinm (DCFITT
4.60        DCFTT plays an important role in providing farmers with cadastral
services and topographical surveys for land transfers in land restructuring and
consolidation schemes.   It is also responsible for the preparation of the
national map. A cadastre is important in identifying properties and the owners
of these properties, and for the formulation of any land tenure policy.
Cadastral benefits include: the certainty of ownership, reduced litigation and
therefore increased incentive for productivity-improving investments; easier
land transfers and facilitated land restructuring and consolidation; and easier
access to credit. Because of the high farm-land fragmentation in Morocco, the
potential benefits from land restructuring and consolidation are substantial
(para. 2.21).  These considerations have been taken into account in DCFTT's
investment program which give priority to:  (a) construction of offices for
cadastral and land registry services (for a nation-wide coverage some 30 blocks
remain to be constructed); (b) topographical work and land surveys for MARA's
land consolidation program; (c) complete revision of the national map; and
(d) a national  cadastre.    The DCFTT has no external  financing  for its
investments. DCFTT is revenue earning and its income covers both operating costs
and investments. Once the relatively heavy investments in the administrative
infrastructure are completed, it is again expected to provide a surplus for the
Treasury. The Table below shows the budget for 1991-92.



- 37 -
Table 4.12. DCPTT BUDGET SUMMY
(DH '000)
Item                            1991      1992     Total      X
Constr. admin. bldgs & loge.   57,700    57,700   115,400      60
Land consolid., data bank      19,200    19,200    38,400      20
Cartography                     9,500     9,500    19,000      10
Land registry                  9.30Q      2.30Q    18JQ6    _l&
95,700    95,700   191,400    100
4.61         The ASIL would financ  some essential investments to be made by
the DCFTT for a more efficient use of agricultural lands, including mapping and
topographical work for land consolidation and cadastral surveys. In doing so,
the ASIL provides the opportunity to include DCFIT, one of the key agencies
concerned with land policy, in the Bank sector dialogue with Morocco.
J. Plannina (DPAET
4.62        Recognizing that successful reform in the agricultural sector
requires that policy instruments and expenditure allocations adjust to changing
economic circumstances, the Government established a separate Directorate of
Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE) within MARA in 1981. The MTASAP aims at
strengthening the permanent analytical capability within MARA so as to ensure
that the DPAE can (a) carry out analysis on agricultural pricing and marketing
policies; (b) review and adjust incentives to private investment; (c) design
public investment and expenditure programs according to quantitative economic
and social criteria; (d) undertake forward-looking strategic work; and
(e) effectively monitor and evaluate projects and programs. The focus under
ASAL II was on designing a three-year work program for the DPAE using external
assistance available under other projects.
4.63        Reinforcement of DPAE's analytical capabilities is progressing
satisfactorily. Among the available results, mention should be made of the up-
dated Prices and Incentives Study (initially undertaken under the ASAL I) the
Multi-Market Model which is now operational, and national accounting for the
agricultural sector. A computerized system for the monitoring of MARA's budget
has been prepared but needs further refinement for use in the ASIL. Work has
started on the estimation of supply and demand functions for the main
agricultural commoditi is. Work is also under-way to prepare progrAmming models
for certain irrigated eerimeters. A survey has started on production costs and
crop budgets and some results have already been obtained for cereals.  In
addition, some 17 professionals are being given short- or long-term training in
the USA or in Morocco through seminars, workshops or graduate studies.  These
trainees are now starting to come back. This is part of a longer-term program
to strengthen DPAE's role and its capabilities for the selection of MARA's
investment projects.



- 38 -
4.64        The DPAE  is also  responsible  for the production  of regular
agricultural statistics. Much of this is financed in the investment budget,
where it represents about one quarter as shown in Table 4.13. below. The main
budget Item, however, is presently the construction of a new office building
for the directorate. Various policy and planning studies, project identification
work and project monitoring and evaluation account for the remainder of the
budget.
MMabl  4A,    DPAE BUDGET SUNKDRY
(DH '000)
Item                1991      1992     Total         X
Constr. admin. bldgs        10,600      8,640    19,240       33
Statistic surveys, census    7,080      7,230    14,310       25
Agro-economic studies        5,770      5,770    11,540       20
N&E, proj. identific.        616H0      6,560    1L2.         _2
Total                     29,610    28,200    57,810       100
4.65        Mm ASIL Lo2uld fInanc  consultancy services and selected studies
designed to help improve agricultural planning and policles. The studies would
include topics such as agro-economy, agricultural policies, monitoring of Plan
implementation, and project monitoring and evaluation. They would also include
the FDA impact study (para. 4.59).
V.  ER*9M   MCUION
A.  Pro&=  Costs
5.01        The total cost of the program (Table 4.1) to be supported is
estimated at DH 5,117 million (US$640 million equivalent), of which
DH 2,080 million (US$260 million) would be in foreign exchange costs and
DH 640 million (US$80 million) duties and taxes. Since disbursements are made
against fixed budget expenditures, cost estimates are in current Dirhams and
contingencies are included in the totals. Accordingly, contingencies are not
shown separately.
B. ZinanaLng
5.02        The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would finance about 9 percent
of the MARA budget (Table 4.1) for 1991 and 1992, excluding taxes and duties.
The budget items selected for financing total US$55.6 million and are shown in
Table 5.1. A financLng plan for the whole program is shown in Table 5.2.



- 39 -
abla.             E ITMS TO BE FINANCED
OH Nillion                -      USS N                           Totael
....................-     ..............              I  Foreign    Ome
Local  Foeign    Total        Local Foreign   Total    E      _tas    Cots
A. IRRIGATION
1. Sall-Scale - Don             22.4      15.5     37.9         2.8     1.9      4.7        40.9       8.8
2. Large-Scale - ONRA           45.6      35.9     81.4         6.6     5.3    11.9         44.1      18.9
Sub-Total                          68.0      51.4    119.3         9.4     7.2    16.6         43.0    2V.6
S. NOW-IRRIGATION
1. Crop Prodction - DPV         15.5        .6     21.1         1.9     0.7      2.6        26.7       4.9
2. Extemion - OVRA              13.5      10.2     23.7         1.7      1.3     3.0        43.2       S.5
3. Forestry - DEFCS             27.1      15.4     42.5         3.4     1.9      5.3        36.3       9.8
4. Livestock - DE               25.4      29.8     55.2         3.2     3.7      6.9        54.0      12.8
5. Plant Protecton-OPVCTRF       4.4       6.7     11.1         0.6     0.8      1.4        60.0       2.6
6. Education - DEAR              5.2       2.8      8.0         0.6     0.4      1.0        35.2       1.9
7. Ptlming - OPAE                5.8       3.9      9.7         0.7     0.5      1.2        40.0       2.2
8. Land Poticy - DCFTT           4.4       6.7     11.1         0.6     0.8      1.4        60.0       2.6
9. Tech. Dev. Progrm- FDA       74.6      55.4    130.0         9.3     6.9    16.3         42.6      30.1
......... . .. ..  ................. .......................... .............................................  ....................
Sut-Totat                         175.8    136.5    312.4         22.0    17.1    39.0         43.7      72.4
Total Items finarced               43.8    187.    431.7          31.3    24.3    55.6         43.5    100.0
Xf     .lf 5,2.  FINNCING PLAN FOR THE 1991-92 PROGRAM
LecaSl         Forei5B            T-otal
..--...   US$ million    -------
Goverrnent                                  237              153                390
Other Donors                                  74               56               130
Bank,  excluding ASIL                        40                30                70
Bank, ASIL                                  .29               _1                 50
Total                                     380              260               640
5.03           Retroactive  financing of up  to US$5 milllon would be provided  in
order to allow a timely program start-up and would cover payments for eligible
expenditures made after July 1, 1990.



- 40 -
C.   h P2
5.04        Procurement arrangements would be as shown in Table 5.3 and discussed
below.
Ible 5.3. PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ Million)
Prlo=uement Method
Project Element             ICB        LCB        Other's      N.A.       Total
Cost
Civil Works                   -         9.2        2.2         -          11.4
(7.8)      (1.9)        -          (9.7)
Reforestation                 -         4.2         -          -           4.2
(3.6)        -                     (3.6)
Equipment, tools,
materials, farm inputs,
breeder animals, and
veterinary cirugs           6.0        5.0        3.6         -          14.6
(5.5)     (4.2)      (3.2)        -          (12.9)
Techn. dev. program            -         -        16.3         -          16.3
-         -       (14.7)        -          (14.7)
Consultancy Services,          -         -         8.3        0.8          9.1
Studies and Training                              (8.3I      (0.8)        9L2 1..
Total                      6.0       18.4       30.4        0.8         55.6
(5.5)    (15.6)     (28.1)      (0.8)        (50.0)
\A   Force account for civil works. Local shopping for miscellUaneous goods (US$1.7 M), and direct purchase
for animals and drugs (US$1.9 H). Standard practices of purchases for Techcnial Development Program
and Bank Gubdelines for consultancies.
Note:  Total progrsm costs are US$540 miion. Figures in table are costs of item selected for ASIL
financing. Figures in pazentheses are oaount disbursed by Bank and Include a prorated share of
unallocated funds In Table 5.4.
5.05        Procurement of items financed under the loan would be carried out
by the ten central directorates, 35 DPAs and the eight ORMVAs implementing the
project.   Contracts would therefore generally be small and geographically
scattered. In the case of the Technologp Development Program (tSS16.3 million},
procurement would be done directly by its beneficiaries from the private sector.
Clvil_JWrks (USS11.4 million) would include irrigation works, small buildings
and other structures, land reclamation and other field operations and feeder
roads and would be small, often remote and dispersed both geographically and over
time. Based on experience in other Bank projects in Morocco, such contracts are
unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders.  Therefore, contracts not to
exceed US$2 million each would be let after competitive bidding advertised



- 41 -
locally according to Government procedures but with certain modifications to
ensure that they are satisfactory to the Bank.  However, for small works in
remote areas, not exceeding US$2.2 million in total, the work would not be of
interest to contractors and would be carried out more cheaply using MARA's own
staff and resources.
5.06        Reforestation activities (USS4.2 million, including stumping, soil
preparation, planting and plantation maintenance would also be dispersed
geoo,aphically and in time and have attracted no foreign bidders in previous such
projects. They would be carried out under contracts not to exceed US$2 million
each let through competitive bidding advertised locally according to Government
procedures modified as stated above.
5.07        Eguipment.  tools.  materials. farm inRuts.  breeder animals and
veterinaxy drugs (USS4.6 million). Equipment which could be procured through
larger contracts valued at US$400,000 equivalent or more each and valued at
US$6 million in total, would be purchased through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Items (US$0.9 million) which
are proprietary in nature, such as breeding animals and some veterinary drugs
(US$1.0 million) would be procured through direct purchase.   Procurement of
miscellaneous items costing less than US$20,000 each and aggregating to no more
than US$1.7 million and of veterinary drugs, regardless of cost, would be made
in small lots on the basis of local shopping with quotations from at least three
suppliers.     Remaining  equipment,   tools,  materials  and  farm  inputs
(US$5.0 million) would be of assorted nature with individual contracts not
exceeding US$400,000 and required at dlfferent times in small lots throughout
the country, and would be procured through competitive bidding advertised locally
following Government procedures modified as described above (para. 5.05).
Consultancy services (US$8.3 million) would be procured following Bank
guidelines.  Irajnin  (US$0.8 million) would not involve procurement and would
be handled followlng normal Government practices.
Contract Review. One of the bottlenecks in the utilization of funds
has been the multitude of variations in the procurement documents that were often
rejected by the CED. During appraisal of the ASIL, the Bank worked with the
Government to help draw up standardized documentation. These standard bid
documents satisfactory to the Bank would be used for project procurement. These
tender documents will be finalized in consultation with the regional procurement
adviser. Therefore, prior Bank review would only be required for: the first
contract for works and any contract exceeding US$0.8 million; the first contract
for goods let under LCB and for any contract exceeding US$0.5 million. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random verification in the field in the
course of Bank supervislon mlssions.
D. Disbusements
5.09        Dlsbursements under the project would extend over three years and
would be completed by December 31, 1993. This would allow one year for carried-
over commitments from the final project year, 1992, to be fully disbursed. Since
the project is financing specific budget line-items in the 1991 and 1992 budgets
and for which commitments, to be eligible for financing, have to be made before
December 31, 1992, there should be no problem in finalizing project disbursements
in the three-year period.



- 42 *
5.10        The percentage of investment costs that would be financed by the
ASIL will vary depending on the amount of taxes they lnclude. These percentages
are presented ln Table 5.4.
ZiaL S.A. PROJECT DISBURSEMTS
Loan Allocatlon         Z of Expenditures
---(US$ 000)---           to be financed
1. Civil Works                     8,000                      85X
2.  Reforestatlon                  3,000                      85Z
3. Equipment, Tools,
Materials,
Farm inputs, Animals,
Vet Drugs                    12,000
a) directly imported                                  100l   of foreign
b) locally manufactured                                10O1 of ex factory
c) locally procured                                    801 of local
4. Consultancy Servlces,
Studles and Training           8,000                    1001
5.  Techn. Dev. Progr.(FDA)       14,000                      951 of amounts
disbursed
6. Unallocated                     5-00Q
Total                       50,000
5.11        Disbursements against expendltures for the following items would be
made on the basis of certified statements of expenditure:
(a)   payments for civll works and reforestation under contracts not
exceeding US$500,000 equivalent and for force account works;
(b)   locally procured equLpment,  tools, materials,  farm inputs and
breodlng animals under contracts costing US$50,000 or less;
(c)   expenditures under the Technology Development Program; and
(d)   local and overseas tralnlng costs.
Supporting documents for these items would be retained by the implementing
agencles and made avaLlable to Bank missions for their inspection. Withdrawal
applications for other items would be fully documented.
5.12        To ensure the efficient and timely lmplementation of the investment
program, a Special Account would be established.   The authorized allocation



- 43 -
(initial deposit) to be deposlted in the Speclal Account in Dirhams, representing
about three months of project expenditures,  would be  the equivalent of
US$5.0 million (DH 40 million).   All loan disbursements would be channelled
through the Special Account except that large expenditures (amounts greater than
10 percent of the initial deposit) whlch would cause it to be significantly
depleted would be submitted for payment directly by the Bank. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted when the amounts
withdrawn exceed about one third of the authorized allocation or every three
months,  whichever comes  first.   To the extent possible,  all withdrawal
applications would be submitted for a minimum amount of US$50,000 equivalent.
Replenishment applications for expenditures financed through the Special Account
would be accompanied by:
(a)   a statement of transactions on the Special Account since the prevlous
application, wlth the balance certlfied by the Treasury;
(b)   a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the amount
deposited in the account less payment awaiting Bank reimbursement.
5.13        Assuran=a were obtalned at negotiations that in order to ensure
the timely availability of funds to meet program expenditures, the Borrower
would open a Speclal Account in a currency and institution and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.14        DPAE, which would have overall coordinating responsibilities for
project implementation, would set up a project information system to maintain
all project related accounts, in accordance with sound accounting prlnciples,
from the start of project implementation. The accounting system was designed
during project preparation. The project would finance the cost of establishing
the system and the training of accountants. Independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank would audit project accounts annually along with the Special Account
and the statements of expenditure used to justify disbursements under the Bank
loan. Audited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank, with the
audit report, within six months after the end of each flscal year. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
F.  Progrm Coordinatio  nd  Oration
Program-Coordina-tion
5.15        The Ministry of Agriculture has the overall responsibility for
project execution. The lmplementation of project investments would normally be
made by the various directorates concerned. In his capacity of being responsible
for the Ministry of Agriculture's (MARA) investment budget, the Director of
Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE) would be the Project Coordinator
responsible for the coordination of program activities. Wlthin MARA's budget
envelope, he would ensure that project priorities are respected ln the annual
allocatlon of budget funds and that project selectlon criteria agreed with the



v 44 -
Bank are applied. He would also monitor other aspects of the loan agreement with
the Bank. Because of the many other responsibilities of the Director of DPAE,
the head of the Planning Division would assist him and be responsible for the
coordination and monitoring of the day-to-day implementation of the project.
He would in turn be assisted in this task by the head of the Project Service and
the person in charge of the Budget Office (of DPAE) in matters with which they
are concerned, respectively.
5.16        The implementation of the various project activities would generally,
and to the extent possible, follow procedures normally used for such functions.
Each director in MARA would execute project operations inscribed in his budget.
For high level project direction and monitoring,  the existing QiretopI'
Committee (DC), which meets weekly, would be used.   It is chaired by the
Minister, or his designate, and the director of DPAE would act as Secretary in
meetings concerning the ASIL. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
GOM maintain, with membership satisfactory to the Bank, a project coordinating
and monitoring committee (Directors' Committee).
5.17        One of the main objectives of the project would be to improve MARA's
budget execution (paras. 4.11-4.14) to ensure a more efficient use of scarce
budget funds.   For this purpose,  there would also be a Budget Execution
Monitoring Committee (BEMC), chaired by the Budget Directorate in the Ministry
of Finance and which would include as members high level representatives of the
Treasury (TG), the Comptroller General of Expenditure Commitments (CGED) and the
Director, DPAE. The BEMC would meet at least quarterly, and on convocation by
the Director DPAE, to review progress in MARA's budget execution (budget study,
delegation, commitment and disbursement of funds), which would be measured
against established targets.   Reasons for failure to meet targets would be
identified and remedial measures taken.   The BEMC is already operational.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOM maintain, with membership
satisfactory to the Bank, a Budget Execution Monitoring Committee.
G. Program SuperKision. Monitoring and Evaluation
Suoervision and Sector Dialogue
5.18        The  project  would  be  supervised  twice  a  year  during  its
implementation, once in the early autumn, timed to permit the discussion of the
budget composition, and a second time about six months later.
5.19        During the early autumn supervision, the formal sector dialogue
would take place. At this time, new investments proposed to be included in
MARA's budget for the following year would be discussed and measured against
agreed upon project selection criteria (para. 4.18). The budget for the first
project year, 1991, was discussed during appraisal and items eligible for Bank
disbursements under the loan were agreed on.   For 1992, the list of items
eligible for ASIL financing would be reviewed and if necessary, modified.
AEngUrBlED were obtained at negotiations that the draft 1992 budget be submitted
to the Bank for review and comments before September 30, 1991. During the early
autumn supervislon, progress on the reform program (paras. 4.11-4.20 and Annex 6)
would also be reviewed. &sxuxances were obtained at negotiations that the reform



- 45 v
program component would be carried out in accordance with an implementation
program satisfactory to the Bank.  Progress would be reviewed with the Bank
annually.
5.20        Estimated supervision inputs into key activitiea are indicated in
Annex 4. The table shows inputs, in addition to regular supoL.- sion needs for
the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.,
estimated to require three staff weeks, each in 1991 and 1992, and two in 1993.
Supervision requirements are estimated at 17 staff weeks in FY92, 15 in FY93 and
6 in FY94, totalling 38 staff weeks over the three year project implemantation
period. The project would need intensive supervision in the beginning to ensure
the success of the institution building and the agricultural reform programs.
On the other hand, savings would occur because field supervision would be carried
out during the supervision of other relevant projects in the division's portfolio
and because of economies of scale arising from the planned preparation and
implementation of a proposed follow-on ASIL project.
5.21        The Director,  DPAE,  in the Ministry cf Agriculture would be
responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions. DPAE
would prepare a briefing report for the mission including the latest status of
budget execution (delegation and expenditure of funds, etc.; paras. 4.12-4.16).
Nonitoring and Evaluation
5.22        DPAE would be responsible for the monitoring of overall project
progress based on information obtained from the various responsible directorates
and services of MARA. Monitoring would focus on progress with procurement of
equipment materials and services eligible for reimbursement under the Loan,
delegation and expenditure of MARA's budget funds, progress in institution
building and the sector reform program, and would compare actual performance with
appraisal estimates, where appropriate. Financial monitoring would also include
withdrawal applications and Special Account operations. Progress reports would
be semi-annual, covering the first and second semester, and be submitted not
later than on the following July 31 and January 31, respectively.
H. Status of ProSect PReparation
5.23        The investment program is a two-year time-slice of MARA's regular
five-year investment plan and little special project preparation is therefore
needed. Items eligible for disbursement are part of this program and have been
selected among those ready to be implemented. They have also been selected for
their ease of disbursements. All project staff and necessary infrastructure are
in place. Project procurement of goods and services have already started and
others are generally of routine nature, requiring little time for preparation.
Standardized bidding documents are being prepared to further facilitate the
procurement process. Targets are being set for the delegation of funds to help
ensure that they are available on a timely basis (para. 4.12).   Terms of
reference for major studies are either agreed upon or are under discussion, and
for minor studies, they would be agreed upon progressively.



- 46 -
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICAXION AM RISKS
A.  Imogfits an  Beefias
Economic Benefits
6.01        All project investments would benefit the rural sector in Morocco,
wXhich accounts for nearly 60 percent of the population, one third of whom live
below the absolute poverty line. Because the loan provides broad support to a
two-year time-slice of MARA's entire investment program, it is not possible to
measure the benefits and calculate a rate of return for the project.   The
benefits would differ by subsector. Nonetheless, investments included in the
project have been chosen in accordance with project selection criteria agreed
upon by the Government and the Bank (para. 4.18), which generally require, inter
alia, a minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent. Based on Bank previous
experience, actual rates of return are likely to be significantly higher than
this.  Typical rates of return for Govrnnt ignvest met  in the different
subsectors are given in Table 6.1 below.
lo 6.1.  ER. AND  SWITCHING VALUES FOR TYPICAL PROJECT VORKS"
Economic Rate of Return      Switching ValuesV
Activity
Low     High    Average      Benefits   Costs
Large Scale Irrigation      15       43       21            -44       +79
Small Scale Irrigation      13       17       15            -40      +134
Area development            10       48       15            -17       +20
Land Consolidation       n.a.     n.a.      15           n.a.      n.a.
Destoning                n.a.     n.a.      21           n.a.      n.a.
Forestry, Total             14       50+      39            -60      +138
Eucalypt Plant.           29       33       31           n.a.      n.a.
Pine Plantations         n.a.     n a.      12           n.a.      n.a.
Range Development           14       18       16            -25       +3
Is   8We MAR/PA esmats tt Pi CO mspetWo
it    P_isn biim 1 cod wt dem  hi beneft   ch Wd   bt  ow rh n  ps     alu (t 10 pec   discourd  e) d te prpet to Mrm
6.02        Concerning the FDA grogr   the Government provides grants to the
private sector financing generally 20-30 percent of project costs, most of the
remainder being supplied by a CNCA loan. Economic rates of return have been
calculated for models representing some major investments supported by the FDA
and CNCA.   The results for some pertinent investment models are shown in
Table 6.2 below. These investments together with destoning from Table 6.1 above,
represent the great majority of the funds provided by the FDA and show that FDA
investments generally are both economically and financially viable.



- 47 -
tZb 1i.2,_ ERR, FRR and Switching Values for Typical FDA NodAs
(in percent)
Investment               RAte of Return         Switching Veluea
Model
Economic  FinancLal      Benefits    Costs
Irrlgation equipment          43           50          -18         103
Tractor and implements        18           15           -9          13
Sheep and stable              14           24           -3          11
Production and Xncotes
6.03        Inflastrutur  and Sarvices.  Investments in large- and small-scale
irrigatlon would generate direct benefits in the form of an increase in
agrlcultural and livestock production and farm incomes.   These would stem
primarily from increased water availability due to the improvement works and
more efficient water utilization.   Investments ln area development projects
would provlde necessary lnfrastructure and soll conservation works and thereby
help  increase  farm  Lncomes  in the affected areas.    Benefits  from  land
consolidatLon would come from a more effective organization of production units
permittLng productivity increaslng lnvestments and technologies and through
access roads permLtting the easier supply of inputs and marketing to the
producer. Destonlig would conslderably lncrease production on the reclaimed land
and t:hereby improve farm lncomes. Plant protectLon equipment supplied under the
project would increase crop yields and reduce losses by contributing to the
control of contagious and shlfting pests requirlng Joint community effc-:ts, or
pests on state forest land. Forest operations under the project would glve rise
to the lncreased production of wood and other forest products, through new
plantatLons and more efficient management of existLng resources. The livestock
component would generate iacrf- sed production of livestock products through
genetic Lmprovements and from iLpcovement of anlmal feedlng and health.
6.04        ZqW=logX Jransf. The Technology Development Program (FDA) would
provide an effective means to lntroduce lmproved farming practices for more
effiLient agricultural resource management. In additlon, it would be a powerful
lever for increased prlvate investments ln modern farm technologies since about
70 percent of the investment cost is paid by the farmer either in cash or on
credit whlch is recovered.  In contrast to tradltional public investments ln
agrlcultural lnfrastructure and equipment with little or no cost recovery, the
FDA, which was established in 1986 under ASAL I, represents a transitional step
to move from a situation of free government infrastructure and services to one
based on maximum self-reliance of the farmers. The project would permit the GOM-
Bank dialogue to focus and strengthen the program by redirecting expenditures
towards areas where they would have the maximum effect. An impact study of the
program would contribute in this effort and help refine the calculations of
economic and financial viability shown in Table 6.2 above.



- 48 -
6.05        Specific FDA activities under the project include well digging.
pumps and irrigation equipment which would be expected to encourage investment
in more efficient small-scale irrigation on private farms. This would facilitate
farmers' control of water, a key factor in more intensive cultivation of high
value crops, and lead to increased production of fruits and vegetables for local
consumption as well as for export. The use of suitably sized farm machinery
adapted to semi-arid conditions, would aid more timely land preparation, better
plant establishment and more efficient use of pesticides. Medium-sized tractors
are an integral part of the set of equipment needed but since land preparation
is constrained by short seasons and unreliable rains, farmers cannot rely on
custom hire services. The FDA therefore encourages medium-scale farmers and
groups of small-scale farmers to acquire a package of appropriate cultivation
equipment (tractors of below 40 HP, chisel ploughs and other cultivation
equipment, seeders and small sprayers)!!. Small-scale farmers participating in
machinery groups and medium-scale farmers would benefit from improved
productivity of labor and from increases in cereal and pulse yields, allowing
increased production and incomes. Use of soils analysis would also be encouraged
to enable farmers to make more economic use of fertilizers and avoid waste.
6.06        Investments in crop storage and processing under the FDA would reduce
crop losses for a range of crops and improve marketing quality. The efficiency
of animal production would be expected to rise from FDA schemes promoting
crossbreeding of local stock with improved breeds, better feeding, and upgrading
of housing facilities. This should lead ultimately to higher production from
a smaller herd of stock and cause less pressure on land for the equivalent level
of production. Finally, planting of fruit trees under the FDA would lead to
increased fruit production and incomes.
Institutional Benefits
6.07        A number of measures taken under the Loan would serve to strengthen
MARA. Speedier delegation of funds and standardized procurement documents would
permit increased use of budget funds approved by Parliameait and would reduce
costs by shortening the implementation period for investments.   The close
monitoring of budgec execution would have the same effects and also permit
management interventions to redirect under-utilized funds to more effective uses.
The budget execution study would permit a further refinement of these measures.
The manual to be prepared under the study would permit the training of staff.
The institutional study would permit the adjustment of MARA's staffing and
organization in harmony with the increased emphasis on privatization of services
and changing farmers' needs. Cadastral activities and land consolidation would
permit a more effective organization of available agricultural land and are
considered fundamental in attracting increased private investments, particularly
in rainfed agriculture where these programs have been lacking. The new land
policy laws are part of these efforts.
The need to drastically improve soil cultivation and seed bed
preparation is detailed in a UNDP-financed study undertaken by
IAV-Hassan II at the suggestion of the Bank: "Adoption des Techniques
culturales amdlior6es sur C6r6ales (Zaer-Gharb)"; juin 1987.



- 49 -
Deepenin. of Pol1cy Diatlogme
6.08        The MTASAP in general,  and the two ASALs in particular, have
launched, in varying degrees, a fundamental process of liberalization of
agricultural imports, liberalization of trade and removal of subsidies on inputs
such as fertilizers, improved seeds and oil-seed cakes for animal feed and
liberalization of domestic trade of major regulated sectors, i.e., cereals, sugar
and oil seeds.   The dialogue on further liberalization of external trade,
cereals, oil seeds and sugar would continue as part of the preparation of two
new adjustment operations, the SAL 2 and the PERL 2 (para. 3.04). The ASIL
would, through annual consultations in particular, consolidate the gains made
in two sectors of special importance to the project, namely livestock and
irrigation. The fact that the ASIL is in support of MARA's entire investment
budget would also permit a dialogue on the whole range of agricultural
activities, including areas where the Bank has no specific investment project
such as agricultural education, livestock and land policy.
B. Environmental Effects
6.09        The project's environmental effects, which are reviewed in
Annex 5, are considered to be generally positive and do not require special
monitoring except in some limited cases as discussed below. ASIL is therefore
classified as a category B project. Following discussions during preparation,
MARA took the initiative to set up a committee chaired by the Secretary General
to review all major investment projects for environmental effects. The committee
will identify potential environmental hazards and propose corrective actions.
The Bank will assist in these efforts.
6.10        Project investments cover four areas with environmental implications:
irrigation, forestry and rangelands, land improvement in rainfed areas and
technology development.
6.11        First, irrigation investments, which would be confined mainly to
-ehabilitation and would only marginally add to the irrigated area, would have
generally positive effects from reducing desertification, recharging groundwater,
repair of flood damage and improved efficiency of water use. There would be
little incremental negative effects of irrigation (intensification of crop
production with more farm chemicals) since most works under the project are
rehabilitation schemes. A system of environmental appraisal introduced under
the existing second Small- and Medium-Scale Irrigation (SMSI) project is also
used for selecting SMSI schemes for rehabilitation. In the case of large-scale
irrigation (LSI) schemes, the conclusions of an environmental assessment being
carried out in preparation of the second LSI project would be taken into account.
6.12        Second, reforestation would have clearly positive effects and the
use of exotic species and clones developed by the forest service would be limited
and monitored. Plantations with these species would be mainly in replacement
of existing plantations or on scrub forest land. Improved rangeland management
would restore the vegetative cover, while the preparation of a master plan for
rangeland development will take into account environmental considerations
country-wide.



* 50 -
6.13        Third,  land development  in rainfed areas would  include  land
consolidation which should foster the adoption of improved rotations to provide
the basis for avoiding excessive use of chemicals.   Destoning, comprising
mechanical lifting of stones followed by hand removal, is potentially damaging
to the stability of the soil but NARA applies strict physical criteria in
selecting areas for development. Other investments include feeder road and land
development actions previously supported under area development projects.
Criteria to be developed by DPV for these and other integrated actions at the
request of rural communes would include environmental assessments as developed
for SMSI schemes.
6.14        Finally,  the promotion of agricultural  technology would have
generally positive environmental implications with small-scale irrigation leading
to better use of water, more appropriate mechanization for seed bed preparation
in semi-arid areas and more intensive profitable livestock production stimulating
the use of grass and forage crop breaks in cereal rotations. Encouragement to
use soil analysis should promote more efficient (and less excessive on some high
value crops) use of fertilizer while DPVCTRF is already taking steps to limit
the dangers from use of pesticides and to apply some elements of integrated pest
management to its operations.
C. ,gJaa RLlkA
6.15        The main risk to the project investments would be continued
Government failure to provide timely and adequate funding. The timeliness of
funding is addressed directly, and measures proposed in the project are designed
to minimize this risk. The priority given by GOM to payments in projects with
a Special Account under the new procedures would also help. The risk of adequate
funding is reduced by the fact that, helped by the Bank adjustment operations,
the Government budget situation has improved since the mid-80s, although it is
still not fully satisfactory and has been temporarily somewhat adversely affected
by the Gulf Crisis.   Nonetheless,  the fact that ASIL is financing about
90 percent of the investments covered by the Loan, should put the Ministry of
Agriculture in a strong position to argue that these items should be protected.
If the second SAL goer ahead as planned, MARA's budget (together with Health
and Education) would be part of the protected priority investment program. The
technical implementation of the investments should be no major risk since the
ASIL supports the regular investment program and MARA has experience in the type
of investments financed.
6.16        Other main risks are on the institutional side and would arise from
an entrenched bureaucracy resisting changes and inert to stimulus to improve its
performance. To reduce this risk, the institutional development program has been
designed with clear, transparent and monitorable targets which would be closely
supervised during project implementation. It must be recognized, however, that
institution building is a long-term process which cannot be completed within the
two-year time-span of a project such as this and a second ASIL is planned to
continue the strengthening of MARA after this Loan has been closed. There is
a risk of poor project coordination resulting in slow disbursements. This risk
has been minimized by giving special emphasis, during project preparation, to
the establishment of an efficient project accounting system and measures to



- 51 -
improve budget monitoring which would permit MARA's management (as well as Bank
supervision missions) to follow closely project progress and to take remedial
action when required.
VII. AqImgmLA uNLu .aQD NQ
&suL1Mas and Agreeaments
7.01        During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)   MARA would (i) carry out an impact study on the FDA program in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
would submit the study to the Bank for comments no later than
December 31, 1992; (ii) implement the recomendations made by the
study and agreed with the Bank (para. 4.59);
(b)   a  special  account would be  opened  on  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.13);
(c)   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would audit project
accounts annually along with the Special Account and the statements
of expenditures used to justify disbursements under the Bank Loan;
audited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank, with
the audit report, within six months after the end of each flscal year
(para. 5.14);
(d)   the GOM would maintain, with TORs and membership satisfactory to the
Bank, a project coordinating and monitoring committee (Directors'
Committee), (para. 5.16);
(e)   the GOM would maintain, with TORs and membership satisfactory to the
Bank, a Budget Execution Monitoring Committee (para. 5.17);
(f)   the draft 1992 budget would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comments by September 30, 1991, (para. 5.19);
(g)   the reforms in the investment process would be carried out in
accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.19);
the reform program would include the following actions or targets
for MARA:
-     acceleration of the delegation and expenditure of budget funds
and improvement of the monitoring thereof (paras. 4.12 and
4.15);
-     the Government would carry out a study by March 31, 1992 to
develop a program for the further rationalization of the budget
execution process (4.16);



- 52 -
-     that all new MARA investment projects (whether financed by the
Bank or not) for 1991 and 1992 would be evaluated on the basis
of criteria agreed with the Bank and that projects exceeding
DH 50 million (US$6 million) would be subject to a formal
appraisal report (para 4.18);
(h)   the reforms in sector policy would be carried out in accordance with
an action plan satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.19); these reforms
concern:
-    development and implementation by MARA of an action plan to
further strengthen the livestock and dairy sectors, including
measures for further privatization of services and the
application of a rational milk pricing policy. (para 4.19);
-    development and carrying out of a program to improve the
accounting of water charges and implement a program for their
recovery and for the elimination of arrears owed by the users
(para 4.20);
Condition of Effectiveness
7.02        Employment of consultants for the budget execution study (para. 4.16)
would be a condition of effectiveness.
Recommendati
7.03        With the above assurances, the project would be sultable for a Bank
loan of US$50 million to the Kingdom of Morocco. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1993.



- 53 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KiNgDoI OF MOROCC
AGRICULUR   SE.CTOR INVETMEN   IOAN
Totals Including Contihoencles   Totaels Including Contingeips
(.000 ON)                         USS.000
.... ....._._..... ,................   ... ..... ..................
1991     1992    Totul         1991     1992    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.. ._._...... 0....
A. CIVIL WOK
1. Buildings                    00.0    800.0   1600.0        100.0    100.0    200.0
2. Irrigation Works           24500.0  33490.0  57990.0      3062.S   4186.2   7248.7
3. Othr Stnrctures            675.0  10750.0  17500.0         843.8   1343.8   218.5
*. Lend Recslobtin             SO.0  17000.0  17500.0         62.5   2125.0   2187.5
5. Field Operation            3800.0   3800.0   7600.0        475.0    475.0    950.0
6. Rood                       4900.0  1450.0  19150.0         612.5   1781.3   2393.?
............................. ......................................... ...............
Sub-Total                       61Z50.0    90.0 12130.0         5156.3  10011.2  15167.5
S. REF0RESTATU                  33280.0       0.0  3380.0       4160.0       0.0   4160.0
C. ERUIFNT & MATERIALS
1. Technies Equiptnt         15300.0  21900.0  37200.0       1912.5   27.5   4650.0
2. Data Nlting Equipment       350.0    400.0    75o.0         43.8      50.0     93.8
3. Irrigation Equipment      20731.0  43550.0  64201.0       2591.4   543.7   B055.1
4. Comication Equipment        500.0    500.0   1000.0         62.5      62.5    125.0
5. Agricultural Equipment    21000.0  23000.0  44000.0       262S.0   285.0   SS00.0
6. Agricultural Imputs         250.0    250.0    S00.0         31.3      31.3     625
T. Veterinary Dru4           13000.0  13000.0  26000.0        1625.0   1625.0   3250.0
B. Fruit TreeSeedlings        16600.0  14500.0  31100.0       2075.0   1812.5   38.S
9. Iaterials                   830.0   "90.0   1760.0          103.7    116.2    220.0
............ ...................  .......................... ...............................
lab-Total                       88561.0  118030.0 206591.0     11070.1  14753.7  23.9
O. LIVESTOCK                     3750.0   3M.0   7500.0          468.8    468.6    937.5
E. STWIRS & TA                  31123.0  20760.0  59883.0       3890.4  359.0   7485.4
F. TRfAINING                     1100.0   2000.0   3100.0        137.5    250.0    387.5
G. SALARIES S ALLOMIICS             0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0
Total PROJECT COSTS            199064.0 232630.0 41694.0       24.0  290.    3961.7
Valus Scaled by 1000.0 1/17/1991  17:48



- 54-
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APRAISL  EO
KING-DOM OF MOQROCCO
AGRICULTURE SECTOR IWS              T LO
ASIL, - Ind-cAtive ftnaLngii ErofgrAM
(DH  000)
DIRECTUATE        Art Para Lim              IteWLLIbelle             Budget   Budget ASIL/PISA  Comnt
OIRECTrION                      I                                    1991  lot.1992  Finance       m Rrque
................ ...............0........0...... ................ ................ .......              .......
EQUIPNENT RURAL    41
(01R)               21  11-15 Etudes oen. de falsabilite            495O     4845       979
20    Etude  PHN                           3255      1000      4255
22  10    Etudes specifiques                     150      300        450  Entr./cor
72        Petfte hydraulfque
21-23 Travaux hydro-egrfcoles              3753      2653      6406  rogfe
40    Acq. mterfem & produits              3140      2250      5390
90    Etudes geotachnlqu                    200         0       200
73  30    Acheveent Neckor:trav hydroaor    2000         2000       4000
s0        Recherche                             1435     1265       2700  check ros
90        FDAmnaguant hydrogr cote            34000    34000       68000
FORESTRY        42      DEP00
EAU  ET FOIRTS           12  30    Materiel techn.  rloIns forest.    1SOO            0      1500
(0F9M)               32  10    Etudes d'haunemmnt forets             2633     1000       3633
43  20    Reboesnet                           33280         0      33280  ftnir tra
52    30   RS fruftters grafrns & plants       2600         0       2600
.........  .......................... ........ ........ ......... .........
PLANT PROTECTION    43 U  PVCTRF
PROTECTIOM VEGETAUX         20  60    materiet techn protection ve.         1000      1750      2750
(OPVCTRF)             30  43    MaterIel technique: conutr. ser    1000        1900       Z900  sacs,etiq
50  33    NaterIel techn. & de protection    1100        23SO       3450  pulver.
60  43    Nater. techn.: repr. fraud.            400      200        600
70  43    Not techn phytosnmita re forets       400      1000       1400
..............  ...  .............. .........................  ........ ........ ......... .........
EIXTENSION      44     DYRA
vuLGARISATION           40  10    Versermnts aux CT                     1800     3000       4800  excl. veh
COYRA)               50  10    Voerseemnts aix CT                    2800     3200       6000  *xcl. veh
81  10    Etudes a Ilentreprise                 2200     2500       4700
90  10    Etudes et enquetes                    2000     2000       4000
90  40    Amenagements foncfers                    0    lSOO      15000  selec. S.
.................. ....... ..............  .............................. ...  ....... ... ........  .......... .... .........
PUNING          30
PLANNIFICATION           40         Etudes, conseils                      350      1000      1350
IT
AFFAIRES EOMOUIIUlU
.uuuuna       ---r-uuD-a-Bu-nEsuuUaiU   UUUUUUU   ~fUUUUU,3~u----U- a  U UUU3fU  EUU*UIU a   un= au-a-usu .uuuu:



- 55 -
Page 2 of 3
ASL - IndAtiv   fimcing PrQgram (cont'd)
I I nuse uguuauuuu.uaauuuuauaaaaauu.M..ua..uauu
DIRECTORATE      Art Pare Linl           ltem/Libltle             idget I udet IASIL/PISA  Coment
DIRECTION      I              I                                      1991 jest.1992  Finance lRea.rp
.... ...... 0..._....._.0...........,..........,...            .......................
CROP PRODUCT ION   45    DPV
(SPV)             30  10   Etude et enqutes par entrepr.   1600          1500     3100  Selected
SO       Contribution FDA:
30     Equipe mnt   ricole              21000   23000    44000
60     Plants fruitiers                  7000    7500    14500
70     Silos. stockage                   3000    50o0       000
80      Entrepots frigorifiques          3000    5000      6000
90      Analyse sots   SO0                        1500     2500
60        Interventions sectorlelles:
10     Etudes sectorielles              2000    2000       4000  Selected
40     Restruct'n palmioer datier
41       Achat de plants                 7000    7000    14000 Oasis dav
el       Consolid'n des projets en sec       8000    10000    18000
62       Ramefrmmnt                         10500   15000    25500
63  10   ProJets nourveuz etudes             5000    6000      13000  Soil stuc
..    ......... ................  ,........... ..... .............. . ,, ....... ......... ......... ........ .......... O....... ....
LIVESTOCK      46    DE
ELEVAGE             10        Sante  animale
(SE)               12 60      Equipemmnt technique             4500    4500       9000  Lab.equip
13  10-20  Vaccins et mteriel technique  12500    13000    25500
20        Intensiffc'n res. altmentaires
21  10-20   Etudes par entreprises           2600    2600      520   inct. str
22  11-15 A ilioration parcours:            3100    3100       6200
20-32 Equipe mnt parcours                1130    1130      2260
30       Aelioration genetique:
31  10050  Etudes entrapr & oist techn   2500    2500          5000
32  12-13  Construction logamants            800      800      1600
38  30   FDA: incitation Invest. prives    5000    5000    10000
40  10   Etudes du marche a lentrepr.        1400    1400      2800
............ . . . ........ ..... 0.. 06........ ........ ........ ........ ......... ......... .........
AGRICULTUE EDUCATION 50    DEAR
AND RESECN             60        Formtion continues
EUSEION EINT AGRICOLE         51   Acquis. Hater pedagog & lab           SOO     600      1100
ET RECHERCUE               52   Acquis. Hater informatique           350     400       750
80 98   Etudes I Assist. technique           700      650      1SSO
(DEAR)              70  10   Etudes a l'entreprise               SOO      1000     1500
30   AppuI aux prograumes recherche      600      1000     1600  Link res.
80   Etudes a l'entreprise                S00     600      1100
98    Consultants & Assist. technique    200      250       450
--__ s    _   uuuma.  -muau.a-auuuuau.a.a-.uuuu amuum.uauuuUuUlUUesUSamUUUUUUflUU .uu.uu.uua



- 56 -
Page 3 of 3
ASIL - 1&4Lcative finanIni Profram  (cont'd)
DIUCTORAT         Art Pare Lign1           Ite/Lfbelle               B ugt |I SUget I ASIL/     Cmmnt
DIRECTION       I               I                                 I  1991   st.1992 I PISA    Remrqmm
,............................... .............................................................. ................... ....................... . . . .  
Lwn  SUveys& Cadst Ame    OCF
Coneration fanciwe 91                  Adainistratimn general,
oCSTT)               40  40    Irwentire foncier:at. techn          1000      1000      2000
50  10    Travau  toporaphiques                1000      1000      2000
60    *embremmnt                          12000    12000      24000
60  20    Pateril fnformtique                  2000      2000      4000
92                Cartogrphie
10  20    Naterifl technique                   3000      3000      6000
40    Trvaux topogrephiques                5000      5000     10000
93                Cadastre
10  30    Travau  topogr. & cadastraux
60    Nateriel technique                   2000      2000      4000
94                Conservation famcier
10  40    Nateriel techniqul                   1000      1000      2000
.......... ....... .... . .............. ........... ._....,,,,,,,,,.............. ........ ...... ......  _....... ._.
CHMS            Rehab. system irr.&  men.pistes   10000    22000        32000
OUiKALA         Nateriel irr.9 entr. pistes          2500     3500       6000
NAOUZ           Entr. st, plstes, refec.irr.         1700     2900       4600
TADLA           Fournit.elem.can,  apper, paoes    3490       6500       9990
TAFILALET       Refection barre                     3000         0       3000
OJAAZATE        Reparer digets crues                 3800     6500      10300
SUSO NAS        Repar. irr.9 engins, pieces dot    2500       3500       6000
LOWKOS          Rep. poape, mot.entr. p1stes        3900      5600       9500
note:   Totai may differ fram Table 5.4 due to later additions to item  eligSble for financing. Figures
for 1092 are indLcative ely.



- 57 -
ANNE-Z 3
STAFF APPRAISAL RREPOR
KINGDOM oF MOROCCO
RULUE SECTOR INVE TM     LOAN
(US$ M)
Calendar                 Bank                         Disbursement
year      Quarter       FY       Quarter      for Quarter       Cummulative (X)
I        FY91      III
1991            II                 IV
III      FY92      I
IV                 II                 4                  4
I                  III                4                  8
1992            II                 IV                 6                  14
III      FY93      I                  7                  21
IV                 II                 7                  28
I                  III                6                  34
1993            II                 IV                 6                  40
III      FY94      I                  5                  45
IV                 II                 5                  50



- 58 -
AMEX4
Page 1 of 2
KINGDM= oF IC
AGRIMUTUALM SECTO  INVSTMEN  LO
Bank Suerlisio-n Plan
Approximate                                                              Staff
dates:                Activity                Expected skill           input:
month/yr                                       requirements             weeks
09/91             Supervision mission:          - TM/proj. org.            8
- review of' 1991 budget      - economics
- review progress MTASAP      - accounting
- project inception           - procurement
- agriculture,
subsectors
03/92             Supervision mission:          - TM/proj. org.            6
- procurement                 - economics
- budget execution            - accounting
targets, study            - agriculture
- disbursements
- studies
- prep. 5-year plan
09/92             Supervision mission:          - TM/proj. org.            7
- review 1993-97 draft        - economics
plan                      - accounting
- review budget 1993          - agriculture,
- review progress MTASAP          subsectors
- targets for fund
delegation
monltoring budget
execution
- budget train. manual
- procurement
03/93             Supervision mLssion?          - TM/proj. org.            5
- procurement                 - accounting
- dlsbursements               - agriculture
- budget execution



- 59 -
ANNEX -4
Page 2 of 2
Abnk SuDriso-onPln (cont'd)
Approximate                                                               Staff
dates:                Activity                 Expected skill          input:
month/yr                                        requirements            weeks
09/93             Supervision mission:           - TM/proj. org.           2
(combined with ASIL 2)      - agriculture
- physical progress
- disbursements
03/94             Project completion:            - TM/proj. org.           2
mission (combined with      - economics              plus
ASIL 2 SPN)                 - agriculture             PCR
- disbursements
- info for PCR
l



- 60 -
ANNE-5
Page 1 of 4
STAFF APRALISAL R RT
KING-DOM-O HJ1QEQCg
AGRICULTURE SECITO.R.INVESTMENT LOA
Overview
1.    The project is classified in Bank category B with regard to environmental
effects. The project's environmental effects which are reviewed in this annex
are considered generally to be positive and will not require special monitoring
except where indicated. Moreover, following discussions during preparation, the
Government has taken the initiative to ensure that future agricultural projects
will be subject to review to ensure that they are responsive to environmental
con-erns.  A committee chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture (N4AM) will review all major investment projects identifying possible
problems and proposing corrective actions. The Forestry Department will act as
secretariat for this committee. MARA has requested the Bankc's assistance with
the establishment of review procedures.
2.    The main investments and services covered by the project are: small-,
medium- and large-scale irrigation, forestry, land development in rainfed areas
(destoning, consolidation, conservation, etc.) and technology prc motion. The
environmental effects of these investments are discussed below.
IrrigaioJn (DER & ORMVA)
3.    SMall- and Medium-Scale Irrigation (SMSI).  The SMSI investment program
is comprised primarily of the rehabilitation of small- and medium-scale
irrigation projects and will generally have a positive effect on the environment
in those regions where they: (i) reduce desertification; (ii) contribute to
recharging groundwater through development of flood irrigation; and (iii) reduce
flood damage. First, the rehabilitation of perimeters meniaced by drought helps
to stabilize agriculture and reduce the pressure on surrounding rainfed land,
e.g., the increase in livestock feed helps to reduce overgrazing of rainfed
pastures. Second, the works carried out in flood irrigation schemes help to slow
down the flood waters and permit a better infiltration and recharge of
groundwater. Third, provision of funds for maintaixding flood irrigation schemes
should lead to quicker repair of flood damage. Irrigation development can lead
to health problems, particularly schistosomiasis, but this does not appear to
be a major problem on these schemes in Morocco. Under the Second Small- and
Medium-Scale Irrigation Project, a system of environmental impact appraisal has
been introduced to be used for assessing environimental issues prior to selecting
schemes for rehabilitation. Similar provisions would apply to investments under
the ASIL.



- 61 -
ANNEX S
Page 2 of 4
4.    Large-S Aal Irrig-ation (LSIl. The project would provide for rehabilitation
of existing schemes so it will not be adding to the irrigated area. A feature
of LSI in Morocco is that about 400,000 hectares have been developed by water
transfer without significant environmental deterior.ition. Waterlogging and soil
and water salinization have been kept to a mlnimum due to good water and soil
quallty (except in the Gharb where wat.irlogging exlsted before LSI) and adequate
water management. Water related diseases (malaria and schistosomiasis) exist
but only to a limited extent.   Effluent from sugar plants is causing river
pollution but corrective measures are being applied. An environmental assessment
is being carried out as part of the preparation for the second LSI Improvement
Project (rAGI2) and its conclusions would be taken into account before financing
the proposed rehabilitations under the ASIL.
Forestry and Rangelands (DEFCS & DE)
5.    Investments in the forestry sub-sector would support better management
and reforestatlon which would generally add to the environmental benefits
provided by the forest resource. For the most part, exotic species, primarily
EucalyptlAg spp., will be used for replanting existing exotic plantations or
small areas of eroded land as village plots. The forest service is developing
several hundred clones that are selected for disease resistance as well as fast
growth. They are planted in nine-hectare plots and will be cut and destroyed
immediately if attacked by pests. Nevertheless, the planting of exotic species
In commercial plantations and village fuelwood plots should be monitored, as
should the dissemination of clones.
6.    The funding of improved management of communal rangelands by the livestock
department should reduce overgrazing and restore the vegetative cover. Other
investment projects such as the IFAD/ADB funded project in the east, also seek
to control range degradation and reclaim degraded areas.   Furthermore, the
project will support work on a master plan for the development of rangelands
country-wide which will ensure that environmental priorities are properly
covered. The animal health and genetic improvement programs should increase
productivity per animal, thereby facilitating reductions in herd and flock size
and lower the risk of overgrazing.
Land Development in Rainfed Areas (DVRA. DPV. DCFTT)
7.    Land Consolidation.   The effects of land consolidation should be positive
since the creation of larger continuous blocks should facilitate the use of
better soil management practlces and the eventual introduction of soil
conservation measures where desirable.  With larger blocks of land, farmers
should also find it easier to adopt the crop rotations which will provide the
basis for limiting use of pesticides and optimising fertilizer use. In order
to promote the adoption of cultural practices more appropriate for safeguarding
the envlronment, approprlate extension messages will need to be developed by the
research and extension services, and demonstrated.



- 62 -
AEX 5
Page 3 of 4
8.    DbtQnjne of potential arable land could damage the environment by
rrovoking erosion through the process itself as well as through the increased
Intensity of land utilization which follows.  Destoning operations generally
include a mechanical raking to bring stones to the surface followed by manual
collection and evacuation.   This minimizes the soil disturbance but strict
criteria, including slope, land classification and soil type, should be applied
in selecting land for destoning to avoid damage. Such criteria have been set
by DVRA on the basis of soil and land classification maps prepared under the
aegis of DPV. Areas suitable for destoning are initially selected on the basis
of these maps and the data are verified and land development plans prepared by
DVRA or consultants prior to starting destoning. Criteria include a maximum of
8X slope. The detailed program would be prepared as the project advances and
would be monitored to ensure that it meets necessary criteria.
9.    Other Actions.   The area developm'int projects funded by DPV include
investment in infrastructure, land development and technology promotion.
Infrastructure includes rural tracks and health services linked to the opening
up of areas suitable for increasing agricultural production.   Provided that
strict criteria are applied limiting areas opened up to those able to support
a sustainable agriculture, damage to the environment will be minimal.   The
projects also include fruit tree planting which should encourage less destructive
farming on slopes. The wider issues of soil conservation are being tackled under
a two-year watershed management study managed by the Bank.   This study is
expected to lead to the development of comprehensive recommendations for
sustainable agriculture in the hill areas.
10.   DPV's sectoral interventions also include the reconstitution of date palm
groves decimated by the "bayoud" disease.   This should help stabilize the
existing groves and the environmental effects should be positive.
Agricultural Technology DeveloRment Fund (DVRA, DPV & DE'
11.  Tlhe fund will promote a number of investments with generally positive
environmental implications, namely; (i) more efficient small-scale pump
irrigation; (ii) acquisition of farm machinery to achieve better soil cultivation
and seed bed preparation; (iii) improved livestock production; and (iv) land
development measures and fruit tree planting. First, the encouragement of small-
scale pump irrigation should help to improve the efficiency of water use, but
could damage the environment if groundwater levels are overly drawn down.              l
Groundwater levels are monitored in some areas (e.g., Souss) and CNCA will only
finance pumps for which authorization haz been obtained from the ORMVA or DPA
concerned. Second the promotion of small-scale farm machinery will encourage
use of equipment better adapted to farming in semi-arid ..eas and lead to better
seed bed preparation;  e.g., the introduction of tyned cultivation equipment
(such as chisel ploughs). In general the tractors and equipment concorned should
lead to more timely



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
cultivations, better plant establishment and more efficient use of pesticides.
Third, more intensive and profitable livestock production will need to be
accompanied by efforts to improve fodder production leading to increased use of
grass and forage breaks in the rotation, with beneficial effects on soil
structure. Fourth, land development measures such as destoning and clearing
which could incite erosion are subject to appropriate control.
12.   In addition to the above investments, the project will support the adoption
of lmproved technology through agricultural extension services. These services
will be advLsing, tntor alLa, on use of improved planting materials, fertillzers
and pesticides. The Government is undertaking certain accompanying measures to
limit the impact of agricultural chemicals on the environment. First, advice
on fertilizer use will be backed up by support of a soils analysis service to
encourage farmers to use optimum levels, reducing wastage and thus the pollution
of groundwater. Use of this service by farmers is to be aided by the technology
development fund. Second, the plant protection department (DPVCTRF) with the
help of USAID, is studying the dangerous effects of pesticides used In the locust
control program and the recycling of old stocks.   Third, through permanent
monitoring of meteorological, biological and crop status condltions, the DPVCTRF
issues early warnings of potential pest attacks and recommendations for judicious
pest control.   Past reports indLcate that some elements of integrated pest
management (IPM) are routinely used.
13.   With regard to pesticides (not financed under project), the Bank is also
the executing agency for a UNDP-funded Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM)
for the Maghreb region. Consultants have prepared recommendations for an IPM
program which includes the application of existing techniques as well as research
into new strategies. A regional workshop to discuss implementation of these
recommendations is planned once governments have reacted to the proposals.
t



- 64 -
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF-MOrOCC
AGRICULR S            _EC  IMES== LAN
ReforMs Rlanned to be carxied gut uder the ASIL
Objective                           Target                   Date
expected
BUDGET EXECUTION
1. Delegation of Funds
Delegate funds to expen-        Delegate 40X                       January
diture centers as early as                                            20, each
possible (para. 4.12).                                                year
Delegate 80X                      February
20, each
year
2. Mo-nitoring of Expenditures
Permit MARA management to       Statements received by DPAE        20th day
obtain up to date information      from implementing agencies         after end
on progress in budget commit-      (DPA, ORMVA, etc.) showing         of period
ments and expenditures.            progress of commitment and         covered.
(para. 4.14-4.15)                  expenditure of funds.
Summary statement prepared by    1 month
DPAE.                             after end
of period
covered
(quarterly
through
1992, then
monthly).
3. Budget Execution Study
Prepare program to further      Receiving report and manual       March 31,
rationalize budget execution       for comments.                      1992
and manual on budget execution
process (para. 4.16).



- 65 -
ANNEXJ 6
Page 2 of 3
Reforms planned to be carried out under the ASIL (contin'd)
Objective                          Target                     Date
REURENT EXPENDITURES
Separate recurrent expenditures   Receiving estimates for              June 30,
from investments (para. 3.10)       recurrent costs in the             1992.
investment budget.
PROJECT SELECTION
Use agreed criteria in project    - a) evaluate economic returns   Continual
selection (para. 4.18)                of projects; (12X ERR).
- b) assess financial
feasibility
- c) assess the projects
impact on the environment,
and assess employment and
training effects; and
- d) assess employment and
training effects.
LIVESTOCK SECTOR
Privatisation of services and       - development of an action         October
preparation of sector strategy        plan for further                 31, 1991
for futher improvements and           privatization of remaining
reforms of sector (para 4.19)         Government health centers
and services for genetic
improvement;
- the maintenance of a 20X        Continual
differential for milk prices
during peak and lean
seasons;
- preparation of terms of         October
reference for the livestock    30, 1991
sector strategy study;
- completion of the strategy      October
study.                           30, 1992



- 66 -
Page 3 of 3
Reforms vlanned to be carried ouC under, the ALj  (contin'd)
Objective                         Target                     Date
IRRIGATION SECTOR
Improve recoveries of water          the development of an action   January
charges (para. 4.20)                 plan with specific               31, 1992
objectives and a timetable
for meeting them.
- the recruitment of              soonest
professional accounting
specialists, under terms of
reference satisfactory to
the Bank, to define the
necessary accounting
improvements; and
- the implementation of           soonest
recommended measures.



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN (ASIL)
List of Documents in Proiect File
1. Agriculture Expenditure Review (3 volumes)
(i)   Main Report, Report No. 8878-MOR, dated June 29,1990
(ii) "Working Papers", dated August 31, 1990 (2 volumes)
2. Selection Criteria for Project Investments
3. MARA's Investment Budgets 1983-1992 and draft used for project preparation
4. Fonds de D6veloppement Agricole (FDA), various reports
5. Draft Standard Procurement Documents for ASIL (5 volumes)
6. Draft Terms of Reference for Project Studies
7.  Fonds Foncier, J.-M. Pierre's Report + various pertinent papers
8. Project Summaries for MARA's Investment Budget



MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Organization of Agricultural Sector
I~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            I
INSPE     N S   D                                                               CABINET
SECRETARIAT
GENE RALE
DIVESIONIVISION DE                                        LA DV  D
IAFtEPROTECION D   LRE ATIONE LA   DYALE            DIVISION DE                       DIVISION                N DE       RETION OE                        DIVISION D t  LA
VEETUX DS VUGAISTIN DiECIO D      ACOSEVA1    DREIINVEEAXSTIORTND DCTONENSIGE  NTPANFIATONE    D IT NIE
DSCONTROl ES       ET DEOLA     ARCE ET DESVIPMN  FOACINEREVATION    ROUTONE  LEGLAUTIN                                  ASEN             IVSINIEP RESONLE
TECHNIUES E L    REFRMI              RURAL        riERE               EL DEONSERA                        ANIMVAE       AGCOLDAE EA |       A    DES AFFARSS    |
DE LA REPRESSION  AGRAiRE  IOPOGFiAPVOQUL                   DES SOt                        LA ~SUPRECiEURCHE DECGENERAUES
PDETS FAUIAES      AGIOE           FNIRSFURGSI
DIV|PRESIO       DESONDE         I       E [|I                                  DES                                      DIVISa IVISION DES  DIVISION Du
DIIIN      VULDIVISAION DLA    IVSODE         DIVISION DEi    DEREASIO DES       DEFESINSElE       DIVISION DE    DOIVISAION DEAAIE
DES ;.AUDES        ADRAETE           RURA           CAASS                                                                                         EUIE    ESRECHRCE    EMAEIE
DES CONT Al-Hna                        REEI ES Gu   Snwa          I DEGUMINEUSIIES    DES SEONLS IE    I AENSEIEMEN
__                                                                                    RE. .O.Ar  EIN| AGRICOEE         S      E | F
DIVISON DE DIVIION D LA  IVISIN DE   DIVISION Du L    DIVISION DE        CEFANSE.E DE L    DIVISION EDBISEE isoNT          DVSOSDS          DVSIND
[j~~~~~~~] [~~~~~~j]  ~ ~       ~      A ATA       [11RTICULfUE         PROSTECTION        LAEANE        DENSEIGINEMENT    CNIGES           D   AEE
DESFRAUES  AGRARE       RURL                                            DES SLSCAT DSGAAPHIE  TCULTURES0
L J     ~~~~~~~~~REKSMNSAGRICOLE
i 1 13en S0mane | |  Iliane  | i  Senat  | g                                                                                      | | DaXaDIVISIOtDEa |A|
5AgaEfI    FIgwg                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~DIVISION DES  DIVISION DE
IPROJETS DE MISEI   RECHERCtiE ET
EN VALEUR ET lnEXPERrMENTA 
E ~~~~~~E] ~~~~~~~DE IINDUSIRIE                                TION
L III  [][ Z II                                L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2AGICLE  FORES71ERES
E~~1EFIi1  ~~~TduangeI
PROVINCIE .
CAGRICUJLTURE
I    sraw-  ,E D                                                            I ,IOMes sous  tulelle II                                                | I
E~~~~~II E~~~~~~FIDIAO LIZF AC  
|abdsJw42o|
l l   || Ktissel ||  T^touan  | L1PDIREC[IONSA  | t SOGETA  ||  CNCA  | |  CCC   l l         {  ORMVA      |      | Muy   | |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sftftv6835



To,To.     J    NS               /.                                                                  -
RT 
EIJoiA                                             .1                                                                L'.                                   A
* Oe3- t ,,..bl.> ,
'an--   X   v   ...   !   S  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
Eir     U   *-             L/                                  IRA ,  >rro,i|
Agodi,    (k /   ~   >          ~t                t            ~       6                                   9IMOROCCO
A2o n    iAGRICULTURE SECTOR
INVESTMENT LOAN (ASIL)
- S7-| p                                                                                                      RAILROADS
<pizn,t                                                        (    ~  _   F Tof=   i_  u * t   AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL
r    ~ ~ ~~~~~~-iIN MILLIMAETERS:                             MAIN ROADS
*                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~600  t AROT
AOR/  j  l  °°°          +      AIRPORTS
200                             IROVINCE CAPITALS
tf ~~   )  -                                                                    0                      *19     NATIONAI CAPITAL
@Gurlmim           J---   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
10J                                                              o         T_o        ITT 50  100   II59 lO^IETETS               _         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
| j-                                                                                                               INTERNATLONAL BOUNDARIES (APPROXIMATE)
I;f   j   f  o  ^                        2-
APRIL 1991



