Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4594-PK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Social Safety Net Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 15, 2009  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 15, 2009, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of:  (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred thirty three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 133,800,000
)
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary of the Recipient’s Economic 
Affairs Division, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, or any Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that Division. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary of the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics  
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Phone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
92-51-9203815  
 
92-51-9218976 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
5.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN  
 
By 
 
/s/ Farrakh Qayyum 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
 
/s/ Said N. Al Habsy 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-4- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient, through BISP, has established the institutional arrangements for 
the implementation of a poverty scorecard targeting mechanism for the safety net 
programs implemented, or to be implemented, by BISP, through the contracting 
of separate agencies for the scorecard data collection and the determination of 
eligibility of beneficiaries. 
 
2. 
Following the adoption of the poverty scorecard as targeting mechanism for 
safety net programs carried out by BISP, the BISP Board has taken a policy 
decision to: (a) revalidate the eligibility of BISP enrollees selected by 
parliamentarians, utilizing the poverty scorecard targeting mechanism; and (b) 
remove existing beneficiaries who either do not complete the scorecard targeting 
form or do not qualify as eligible under the scorecard targeting mechanism. 
 
3. 
Pursuant to the BISP Ordinance (2009), the Recipient has established the BISP as 
an autonomous statutory safety net authority responsible for the implementation 
of safety net programs, with: (i) financial and administrative autonomy; and  
(ii) differentiation of responsibilities, powers and functions among the BISP 
Board, the Chairperson and the Secretary for the oversight and management of 
the safety net program. 
 
4. 
The BISP Board has approved/adopted the administrative policy guidelines for 
the implementation of the safety net program. 
 
5. 
The Finance Division (MOF) has confirmed the
 Federal Government’s decision 
by the Prime Minister, to remove the overlapping mandates of BISP and PBM in 
delivering unconditional cash transfer programs. 
 
6. 
The Recipient, through PBM, has expanded the coverage of the Child Support 
Program utilizing a poverty scorecard targeting mechanism for the selection of 
beneficiaries. 
 
7. 
The BISP has entered into an agreement with an independent payment agency 
setting out the policy guidelines and procedures for timely delivery of payments 
to BISP beneficiaries 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the 
Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The BISP shall have collected the poverty scorecard information in at least eight 
(8) districts of the Recipient, and transmitted such information to the Data 
Processing Agency.     
 
2. 
The BISP Board shall have: (i) adopted a transition policy including, 
inter alia
,
grievance mechanisms, the cut-off score for 
beneficiaries’ eligibility, a plan for 
national roll-out of the scorecard targeting mechanism, and communication 
strategy; and (ii) implemented the policy decision in at least five (5) districts of 
the Recipient to remove BISP enrollees nominated by parliamentarians who 
either do not complete the scorecard targeting form or do not qualify as eligible 
under the poverty scorecard-based system. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts
.
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two 
tranches.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in 
the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
First Tranche 
100,300,000 
Second Tranche 
33,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
133,800,000 
C. 
Tranche Release Conditions
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the First Tranche unless the Association is 
satisfied, as of the date of the request for such withdrawal:
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program; 
and   
 
(ii) 
 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
appropriate.
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
2. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Tranche unless the Association is 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Sections 3.01(a) and (b) of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the 
Program;  
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
appropriate; and  
 
(iii)  
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have 
been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the 
notice, the Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with 
respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts
.
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2010. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2019, to and including 
June 15, 2029 
1.25% 
commencing December 15, 2029, to and including 
June 15, 2044 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-8- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“BISP” means the Benazir Income Support Programme, an autonomous statutory 
safety net authority responsible for the implementation of safety net programs, 
established pursuant to the BISP Ordinance (2009). 
 
2. 
“BISP Board” means the board of the BISP, established under the Cabinet 
Division via Notification No. F.1/5/2008-Adm-II dated September 27, 2008, and 
Chapter III Section 5 of the BISP Ordinance (2009).   
 
3. 
 “BISP Ordinance (2009)” means the Recipient’s Ordinance IX of 2009 issued 
via Notification No. 2(1)/2009-Pub, dated April 30, 2009, which was re-
promulgated by the Recipient on August 31, 2009, as Ordinance XIX of 2009. 
 
4. 
“Chairperson” means chairperson of the BISP Board, to be appointed pursuant to 
Chapter III, Section 5 of the BISP Ordinance (2009). 
 
5. 
“Child Support Program” means the pilot (targeted) conditional cash transfer 
program providing top-up financial support to poor households enrolled with 
PBM, on the basis of their children’s (age 5 to 12 year-old) attendance to primary 
schools, administered by PBM. 
 
6. 
“Data Processing Agency” means the agency contracted by BISP to be 
responsible for the processing of scorecard information collected by third party 
organizations and the determination of eligibility of BISP enrollees.  
 
7. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
8. 
“Finance Division (MOF)” means the Finance Division of the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Finance. 
 
9. 
“First Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “First Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and available for immediate disbursement upon the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, subject to the conditions provided herein. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
11. 
“PBM” means the Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal, a social safety net program established 
pursuant to Act I of 1992, as amended though Ordinance XC of 2002. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated 
 
May 2, 2009, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
13. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the BISP Board and Principal Accounting 
Officer of the BISP, to be appointed pursuant to Chapter III, Section 5 of the 
BISP Ordinance (2009). 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
Page  13
-12- 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
