Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4562 
Operation Name 
Pakistan Social Safety Nets Development Policy Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P115638 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
BENAZIR INCOME SUPPORT PROGRAM 
Date PID Prepared 
April 2, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Pakistan faced both external and internal shocks in the past year.  Externally,   international oil and food 
commodity prices rose sharply and inflated Pakistan’s import bill.  In parallel, the slowdown in the 
global economy dampened the external demand for Pakistan’s exports, and the deterioration in 
international credit markets affected the supply of funds.   Internally, Pakistan’s political turmoil and 
uncertainties affected investor confidence. These concerns coupled with the rapid rise on 
macroeconomic imbalances, led to capital outflow as well as downgrading of Pakistan’s rating by 
international rating agencies.   
 
The Government did not pass any of the international price increases to consumers until after the 
Parliamentary elections in 2008. These price increases were financed   through the government budget 
by increasing subsidies.  As a result of the global external shocks and internal causes the fiscal and 
balance of payment imbalances widened substantially, inflation rose sharply, growth slowed, and 
Government’s macroeconomic program was set off track.   
 
In March 2008, the authorities started to take some steps to stabilize the economy.  These included 
passing on some of the international fuel price increases to consumers, restricting the size of the fiscal 
deficit in the 2008/09 budget, increasing the policy discount rate, and allowing greater flexibility in the 
exchange rate.  However, these actions soon proved to be inadequate and too late.   
 
Faced with the risk of an impending full-blown balance of payments crisis, the authorities in the fall 
2008 decided to put in place adjustment measures that facilitate the resumption of inclusive growth with 
low inflation over the medium term.  In November 2008, the Government entered into a Stand-By 
Arrangement with the IMF to stabilize the economy.  In this context, the Government also requested 
assistance from the Bank to support the structural adjustment process in a manner that would provide 
relief to the poorest households in Pakistan by putting in place an efficient and expanded social safety 
nets program.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The broad objective of the safety net program is to promote inclusive growth.  The specific objective of 
the program is to establish an effective social safety net that provides the poor with basic income support 
Page  2
both in times of social and economic stability and growth and in times of crisis and provides access to 
opportunities for graduating out of poverty. 
 
The proposed Pakistan Social Safety Nets Development Policy Credit (SSN DPC) aims to support the 
implementation of Pakistan’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP2).  In particular, the SSN 
DPC would provide support to the third pillar of the PRSP:  
Protecting the poor and vulnerable
 through 
improved targeting of safety nets and cash transfer programs.  The proposed SSN DPC is also consistent 
with Pakistan’s National Social Protection Strategy that supports the development of an effective and 
financially sustainable safety net system to promote the re-distributive goals of society and protect those 
suffering from chronic or transient poverty. 
 
The proposed SSN DPC supports:  
·
Establishing a National Targeting System
 through the launch of the national poverty-scorecard-
based targeting method by developing partnerships with institutions for data collection, and 
eligibility determination essential for its implementation and national rollout. 
·
Establishing an effective institutional framework for program implementation 
through the 
development of legal, institutional, administrative institutions for the safety net system; and the 
development of graduation and exit strategies to facilitate households’ movement out of  poverty 
·
Enhancing fiscal Sustainability and strengthening the fiduciary environment
 through ensuring 
adequate budget allocation for benefit payment and program administration; and developing a 
reliable and transparent payment system, with strong fiduciary and social accountability controls. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This Program Document presents the proposed Pakistan Social Safety Net Development Policy Credit to 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to support the Government of Pakistan’s Safety Net Reform Program.  
The objective of the safety net reform program is to support the development and implementation of a 
financially sustainable, efficiently targeted, and well administered national safety net system in Pakistan 
that will provide the chronic and transient poor with both basic income support and access to 
opportunities for graduating out of poverty. Specifically, the credit will support the strengthening of the 
Benazir Income Support Program, the Government’s new national safety net program. This objective is 
consistent with the goals of the Pakistan’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-II) and the 
National Social Protection Strategy of Pakistan. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The proposed operation is an adjustment operation that does not require an ISDS or environmental 
assessment.  The policy measures supported are expected to be associated with positive environmental 
effects.   
 
5. Tentative financing: 
IDA funding is to be determined
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 425 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
 Total 
625 
 
6. Public Information Center 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Page  3
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500
 
