Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4760 
Operation Name 
Social Safety Nets Development Policy Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P115638 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
May 1, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 28, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
June 4, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Pakistan’s social protection system comprises safety nets, social security and employment promotion and 
protection.  The country’s 
safety net system
 includes three main federal cash transfer programs: Zakat, the 
Food Support Program (FSP) and the recently established (2008) Benazir Income Support program 
(BISP).  Other small, scattered programs provide social welfare and care services to persons with 
disabilities, child laborers, and others.  Although Pakistan has earlier implemented public works/workfare 
programs, no large workfare program is currently in place.  To address aggregate economic (price) 
shocks, till recently, Pakistan implemented a wheat subsidy program.  Although no permanent program is 
in place to help individuals cope with aggregate disasters, Pakistan has used a combination of cash 
transfers, housing and social care service programs to help those affected, for example, by the 2005 
earthquake.  The country also implements several 
employment promotion
 programs, e.g., micro credit 
programs and skills and training.  Employment protection institutions (e.g., labor laws) cover workers in 
the formal sector.  Pakistan’s 
social security system
 offers pension benefits to formal sector workers (old 
age, survivor and disability).  Public sector workers are provided civil service pensions, while private 
sector workers have access to pensions from the Employees Old Age Benefits (EOBI) and provincially-
based pension and non-pension programs such as the Workers Welfare Fund (WWF) and the Employees’ 
Social Security Institutions (ESSI). 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The program development objective is the establishment of an appropriate policy framework for an 
efficient national safety net system. The proposed DPC support falls under pillar III of the Country 
Assistance Strategy (CAS): supporting the poor and vulnerable. The CAS recognizes that the existing 
social assistance programs cover a very small fraction of the poor, provide negligible benefits, and suffer 
from ineffective targeting, weak administration, and a lack of monitoring and evaluation. To this end, the 
CAS notes that the Bank’s support will include support for safety nets that will (i) help the chronic poor 
cope with poverty, and where possible; (ii) help the poor escape poverty, e.g., via conditional cash 
transfers; and (iii) help families and households cope with seasonal shocks.   
 
The proposed DPC is fully consistent with Pakistan’s second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which 
identifies assisting the poor and the vulnerable as a key objective of Government’s poverty reduction 
strategy. The proposed DPC is also consistent with the National Social Protection Strategy that supports 
the development of an effective and financially sustainable safety net system to promote the re-
distributive goals of society. 
Page  2
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has been supporting the strengthening of safety net systems in Pakistan for several years, 
widening its engagement considerably to include: (i) analyses of the efficiency of social protection 
expenditures; (ii) technical assistance to formulate a National Social Protection Strategy (NSPS) that was 
approved by Federal Cabinet in June 2007; (iii) analytic work on the targeting performance of existing 
social assistance programs and the development of a poverty scorecard based on a Proxy Means Test 
(PMT) formula; (iv) policy dialogue with provincial governments on social protection policy and 
programs; (v) support for social care services for the disabled, and (vi) technical assistance to support the 
design and implementation of a pilot Child Support Program (CSP), a federal conditional cash transfer 
(CCT) scheme under the Ministry of Social Welfare. 
 
The introduction of a national income support program presents an ambitious reform agenda, which the 
Bank is positioned to support through a programmatic mix of interventions that include the proposed 
Social Safety Net Development Policy Credit (SSN DPC), Social Safety Net Technical Assistance (SSN 
TA) and the Poverty Reduction and Economic Support Operation (PRESO).  Informing these 
interventions the Bank draws from previous experiences of social protection involvement. This includes 
reforms supported under the PRESO, cash transfers in earthquake-affected areas in Pakistan and Pakistan 
Poverty Alleviation Fund. In addition, the Bank has an established international expertise in the design 
and implementation of social safety nets including the provision of strategic advice in developing a 
unified targeting system building on objective and transparent mechanisms; substantial expertise in the 
design, implementation and evaluation of safety net programs and interventions, including cash transfer 
programs; advise on best practices on a system of controls and accountability mechanisms for safety net 
programs which in turn will enhance the program’s impacts on the poor, and access to international 
experience with exit strategies and complementary measures such as linking benefits to human 
development measures and providing innovative mechanisms for enhanced youth employability.
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 425 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
Total 625 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed Credit would be made to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, represented by the Federal 
Ministry of Finance.  The IDA credit proceeds, amounting to the equivalent of US$200 million, would be 
transferred to the Federal Government in accordance with the terms of the Financing Agreement (FA).
 
The implementation and monitoring of safety net reforms are being managed by the Benazir Income 
Support Program.  The Ministry of Finance coordinates the overall reform agenda, with the assistance of 
the Planning Commission.
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Existing publicly financed social protection programs in Pakistan are limited in adequacy, targeting 
efficiency, and ability to respond to shocks.  The new safety net system will provide the chronic and 
transient poor with both basic income support and access to opportunities for graduating out of poverty. 
Page  3
Specifically, the credit will support the establishment of an appropriate policy framework for an efficient 
national safety net system, including the development of sound institutions for the effective 
implementation of the Benazir Income Support Program, the Government’s new national safety net 
program.  
 
While potential benefits to the proposed operation are very significant, there are also substantial political, 
economic and implementation risks: 
 
Political risks:
 
Attaining a sharp reduction in the fiscal and current account deficits will require political 
leadership and cohesion.  The scale and speed of the required economic policy response to the 
macroeconomic imbalances to improve economic growth and poverty reduction prospects in the long run 
could intensify social tensions in part of the population.  The sustainability of the program could also be 
undermined by possible differences among Pakistan’s main political parties on other issues, including 
constitutional reforms and the security situation. The development of a well- governed and targeted safety 
net could help mitigate the economic and social impact of necessary structural reforms on the poorest 
segments of the population, promoting social peace. The BISP has been established as an autonomous 
agency under presidential Ordinance IX of 2009.  The Pakistan Constitution provides for a sunset clause 
for all Ordinances.  Ordinance IX of 2009 will eventually require the Parliament's adoption to remain in 
force.  The chances of the Ordinance being repealed are deemed slim.
 
Nevertheless, the association of the 
safety net program with the current government could lead to its disbanding under a new and different 
government in the future.  In addition, the involvement of parliamentarians in the initial beneficiary 
selection could also pose a major risk to its governance, and pose a reputational risk for the Bank.  The 
development of effective institutions and strong monitoring and evaluation systems that can provide 
information on program performance and gain the confidence of the public could mitigate this risk.  The 
consensus across the political spectrum on the need for a safety net program will also ensure continuity of 
the program (though the name or institutional home may change
).
 
Economic risks
:
On the external side, a renewed rise in international energy and commodity prices, a 
reduction in foreign remittances especially from the countries of the Middle East, and a further 
deterioration in the world economy and international financial markets could weaken the export sector, 
reduce household transfers, lower capital inflows, limit economic growth and reduce flexibility for policy 
reforms.  Owing to these reasons, the external imbalances may continue to widen despite the short-term 
measures taken.  On the internal side, the inability of Government to restore fiscal and external balance as 
agreed could reduce business and consumer confidence.  This could cause a fundamental shift in market 
expectations and a loss of confidence at home and abroad, leading to a sudden reversal of financial assets 
held in Pakistan’s stock and bond markets.  This could generate a vicious cycle between weakening 
financial markets, stalling economic activity, and a worsening fiscal position.  The IMF Stand-By 
Arrangement will mitigate these risks by committing the authorities to fiscal and current account deficit 
targets. 
 
Implementation risks: 
 A successful implementation of the reforms will be critical for an effective safety 
net system. Among the risk factors that would influence reform implementation performance are (i) the 
low administrative capacity of BISP, which is a newly established organization; (ii) continued 
enrollments to BISP under the old system; (iii) over-ambitious and unrealistic roll out of the safety net 
system, which would have negative implications on the quality of program implementation; (iv) 
inadequate financing of the program that could result in insufficient coverage of the poor; (v) delays in 
funds release to safety net programs arising from the current fiscal crunch and the need to reprioritize 
public spending; (vi) fraud and corruption that could undermine the ability of the program to deliver 
benefits to the poor in circumstances of weak internal controls; and (vii) transition to a new targeting 
system, which may lead to dissatisfaction from beneficiaries of the old system who no longer qualify for 
Page  4
the benefit.  The mitigating factors are (i) Bank supported technical assistance to build capacity for the 
implementation of the reform program; (ii) roll out of the new targeting system with a strong M&E 
component to demonstrate its effectiveness; (iii) the use of a pilot enrollment phase to fine tune and adjust 
program parameters prior to a national roll out; (iv) Government’s strong commitment to establishing and 
implementing a modern safety net system as evidenced by its adoption of an objective national targeting 
system; (v) the establishment of separate agencies for data collection, eligibility determination and benefit 
payments; (vi) the institution of special purpose independent financial and performance audits of the BISP 
program by the Auditor General of Pakistan as well as regular operational audits by third parties; and (vii) 
the institution of an appeals mechanism and process evaluations of the targeting process during the test 
phase. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation is expected to help the poor cope with both chronic and transient poverty.  The 
operation supports the development of a well-targeted cash transfer program (i.e., BISP), which will cover 
a
significant portion of the poor population nationwide.  The provision of income support to the poor 
should help provide for the basic needs of the poorest populations.  The establishment of a national 
targeting system based on objective and transparent criteria, supported by strong and transparent 
institutional structures for collecting enrollment data, determining eligibility, benefit payment, and for 
addressing grievances, with a strong emphasis on monitoring and evaluation, has the objective of ensuring 
that benefits reach the poor, with minimum inclusion and exclusion errors.   
 
The current benefit amount is Rs. 1000 per month per family, and it would take Rs. 63.4 billion to cover 
about 18.7 percent of the population, provided all the program budget is allocated to the benefits. Under 
these assumptions, the BISP is expected to reduce poverty headcount rate by 6.4 percentage points if a 
cutoff point that leads to a coverage rate of 16.6 percent of the population is selected (using 21.9 percent 
as the poverty rate).  In addition, the basic income support to the poor is also expected to have a positive 
impact on human development outcomes and promote gender equity since the cash transfers supported by 
this operation are provided to the female head of the eligible families. 
 
The reforms and policies supported by the proposed loan to strengthen Pakistan’s social safety nets are 
not likely to have any significant negative effects on Pakistan’s environment, forests, or other natural 
resources.  
 
8. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Cem Mete 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-2810 
Email: cmete@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  5
