Report No. PID11465
Project Name             ZAMBIA-Emergency Drought Recovery (@)
Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   General agriculture; fishing and
forestry sector (50%); Other social
services (50%)
Project ID               P080612
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Implementing Agency
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT, DMMU
Office of the Vice President
Address: Independence Road, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: W. K. Mulubisha
Tel: 260-1-250827
Fax: 260-1-250009
Disaster Management and Mitigation
Unit
Address: 25 Tito Road, Rhodespark,
P.O.Box 38963
Contact Person: Mr. J.L.K Mwanza,
National Coordinator
Tel: 260-1-252692
Fax: 260-1-255725
Email: dmmu@zamtel.zm
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 4, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      September 20, 2002
Bank Approval Date       November 19, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Zambia is a predominantly rural economy and almost two thirds of the
country's population, namely 7 million of about 10.5 million, lives in
rural areas, and depends on agriculture. Of the rural population
participating in the labor force 75% have their primary occupation in
agriculture, 8% are wage earners, 7% are self-employed in other
occupations and about 10% are underemployed/unemployed. Moreover, poverty
is endemic in Zambia and a majority of the poor live in rural areas.
Despite these demographic features, Zambia since its independence has
invested overwhelmingly in urban areas and mining, and the rural and
agricultural sector has received relatively far less development
resources. The resulting lop-sided development has hurt a well-rounded
growth and development of the country's economy.
Zambian agriculture has faced in the past, and continues to face several
impediments for harnessing its considerable potential for increasing
production for domestic consumption and export, contributing to national
GDP, and addressing food security and rural poverty. These include poor



rural infrastructure; thin or nonexistent markets for key inputs and
services notably fertilizer, credit and transport; limited financial
markets and markets for farmer outputs; inadequate and often supply-driven
extension services; poor agricultural research infrastructure; decay of
rural social services and amenities and degradation of biodiversity and
environment. Low education levels among rural families limit their
capacity to adapt to technological changes and restrict their range of
opportunities. Due to limited availability of social services, the health
profile of rural people is poor. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is one of the worst
in the region. Depletion of livestock resources- the main source of
nutrition for rural families, and under-utilization of country's water
resources in aid of agriculture are other major shortcomings.
The preponderance of rain-fed agriculture and very low use of its water
resources make Zambian agriculture highly prone to the vagaries of nature,
and this has resulted in frequent crop failures in the past. In the last
decade alone Zambia has faced recurring droughts, including the 1991/92
severe drought, which affected the Southern Africa region as a whole.
Subsequent to the 1991/92 country-wide drought, there was a partial
drought in 1995, and an El Nino phenomenon in 1998, both of which resulted
in significant production shortfalls. The 1991/92 phenomenon has repeated
itself in 2001/2002, and the impact of the drought has been exacerbated on
the one hand by the second consecutive year of poor and failed harvest and
on the other by the inability of neighboring countries to export food, as
these themselves are experiencing food scarcity conditions.
Size of the problem: Of the 74 districts in the country 38 are severely
affected by drought, and some 2.9 million people are in need of food
relief. A joint assessment team of the Government, UN system and NGOs has
estimated the maize deficit at 635,000 metric tones, against which donor
pledges as of September 2002 was about 75,000 metric tones. However, this
may not been realized due the government policy on genetically modified
maize and government has to buy most of the food on its own account.
Besides food, water scarcity for humans and livestock has also emerged as
a serious issue. With water sources drying up in some areas and people
forced to use non-potable water for drinking the threat of disease
epidemics breaking out is real. As most farmers lost their investments in
the failed crops, they are not left with means to buy food for their
families in this season, and to cultivate their lands in the next
cropping season, assuming that it would be a normal rain year. In other
words ensuring availability of food in the markets of the drought affected
areas alone would not be enough, the affected populations would need to be
provided with means to buy food or receive relief food.
Government Response: The Government of Zambia has declared Southern
Province a disaster area, and has issued an appeal for humanitarian aid.
At the same time, a number of other initiatives have also been taken to
deal with the crisis. These include, (i) provision of food relief to
severely affected households - this strategy is being championed by the
United Nations World Food Program (WFP) and NGOs experienced in relief
work; (ii) facilitation of private sector maize import - Government has
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the millers for the
importation of maize; (iii) financing of the purchase of strategic food
reserves; (iv) decision to support farmers to grow next season crops, and
to organize demonstration and dissemination of conservation farming
- 2 -



technologies, and (v) provision of extension support to affected
communities, particularly, to mitigate the effects of drought on
livestock.
International Community Response: The UN system in Zambia launched its
Consolidated Appeal (CAP) on July 17. 2002. Emergency relief operations
would be handled by FAO, UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA, and WFP. Besides, a number
of national and international NGOs would also be key partners in this
effort. Priority actions planned as emergency response include provision
of adequate food relief, access to water, health and nutrition,
agriculture, education and support for special protection of children.
There is also a plan to link relief to programs being implemented by the
Government with support from multi-lateral and bilateral agencies, civil
society and private sector. The countries that have pledged their support
include USA, Netherlands, UK, Japan, and the European Union.
2. Objectives
The overall objectives of the project are to assist the government in
maintaining key commitments to its economic and investment priorities laid
out in the PRSP while meeting the exigencies of the food crisis, and to
help restore productive capability of the affected population. It is
aimed at helping the government to respond effectively to the current
drought, and to supplement government's effort and resources: (a) to
prevent starvation and malnutrition in the affected human population; (b)
to support other identified drought mitigation measures such as providing
drinking water, improving critical transport and logistics links,
supporting health and sanitation services, providing support to keep
children in school and protecting the threatened livestock population; (c)
to support farmers to raise crops in the next agricultural season; and (d)
to enhance government capacity for longer-term disaster management,
including through support for developing an effective early warning
system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed emergency support is fully consistent with the Bank Group's
overall assistance strategy for Zambia. It also supports the government's
own Drought Recovery and Mitigation Plan, October 2002, which focuses
primarily on immediately providing food and other essential goods and
services to the affected population, as well as helping farmers restore
agricultural output in the next season.
For the Bank and the government, ensuring a stable macroeconomic framework
has been a priority before the emergency and will continue to be so while
the government deals with the economic and social shocks of the drought.
Bank's involvement at a time when the country is experiencing a major
drought shock will help the government maintain its key commitments to
social and economic reforms and to the investment priorities that are
contained in its PRSP. It will also help restore the productive capacity
of the affected population. The poor will suffer most if the government
is not able to mobilize additional resources to finance essential imports
and maintain its expenditures on social services and infrastructure, which
is crucial to reduce poverty over the longer term. Thus, the Bank's
emergency assistance would ensure that essential long-term expenditures
are not compromised while the government makes available food supplies in
drought-affected areas and to the poor. In addition, the Bank's
-3 -



assistance will enable the government to partially mitigate the income
shocks on the vulnerable, to allow them to access food and other essential
goods and services through targeted safety net interventions (such as
employment through public works and distribution of agricultural inputs
entailing cash or in-kind income supplements). As part of the discussions
on Bank assistance for drought recovery, the government and the Bank have
agreed to complement the emergency credit with resources from the existing
portfolio, to be realigned towards targeted safety net interventions. The
resources from the existing portfolio complement and do not substitute for
the emergency operation because the focus of support and timing of
disbursements differ from those of the emergency credit.
The proposed emergency assistance also responds to the consolidated appeal
issued by the United Nations on behalf of Zambia and supported by
bilateral donors and multilateral agencies. In addition, the Bank has
considerable experience in emergency operations, including response to
drought, and will be able to respond quickly under its quick disbursing
assistance. Moreover, 40 percent of the assistance will be through an IDA
grant. This response would be part of the overall Bank effort to provide
drought relief in the most affected countries of the southern Africa
region.
4. Description
The proposed operation comprises four components:
(a) Quick-disbursing assistance to finance a positive list of imports.
The positive list of imports will include (i) machinery and equipment;
(ii) agricultural inputs; (iii) petroleum products; (iv) construction
materials; (v) transport vehicles, motor bicycles, bicycles; (vi)
livestock and animal health products and veterinary supplies and
equipment; (vii) school supplies and equipment; (viii) medical supplies
and equipment. In aggregate, the imports financed under the
fast-disbursing component would be used to help restore agricultural
production, improve access of rural people to markets and services through
repair and improvement of rural roads and bridges, and help maintain
education and health services.
(b) Safety net interventions aimed at improving access to markets for
essential commodities and services by vulnerable groups. The government
intends to provide employment and improve access to markets by expanding
its public works programs under ongoing projects such as the Road Sector
Investment Program, and to invest in removing critical transport
bottlenecks. The project will support some of these efforts.
(c) Distribution of a package of agricultural inputs and technologies for
the next cropping season to households severely affected by drought.
Farmers who cultivate less than a hectare of land, lost their crop to
drought, lost their cattle and draft animals, households with HIV/AIDS
patients and who support orphans and the handicapped, child-headed
households, and women-headed households will benefit from this
intervention.
(d) Improving early warning system and disaster management and mitigation
capacity of the government through technical assistance, training, and
studies.
-4-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $30.00
IDA GRANT FOR NATURAL DISASTERS $20.00
Total Project Cost $50.00
6. Implementation
The Government has a Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit (DMMU) in the
office of the Vice President of Zambia. This Unit is entrusted the
responsibility of overall management and coordination of the emergency
response. Sector ministries are not much involved in direct relief work,
and are generally engaged in coordinating non-relief activities aimed at
mitigating the effects of the crisis. The Unit, however, is relying
heavily on relief organizations such as the WFP, and the NGOs engaged in
relief work. The Bank mission would assess the capacity of the Unit and
the effectiveness of its operations to deliver on the onerous and
time-bound outputs for the proposed emergency operations, and would
include provisions for its appropriate strengthening, and establishment
of necessary procedures. These measures should give it capacity to
effectively coordinate implementation of the emergency recovery measures
by diverse Government agencies, districts, NGOs, public and private
institutions, and community-based organizations.
7. Sustainability
The proposed project is an emergency operation but it also contains
measures to strengthen the capacity of the country to cope with natural
events over the medium and long terms. It will assist the government to
strengthen its early warning system, to establish effective drought
management arrangements, and to develop a cohesive and responsive
longer-term safety net framework (at the central and the district
government levels). Appropriate plans will be drawn up for capacity
building in the government and other cooperating institutions. This will
create in the long term appropriate capacity in the government to address
natural events such as periodic droughts and floods, as well as other
economic shocks.
Currently under preparation is a Bank-supported agricultural sector
development program for Zambia, which is being framed within the context
of the PRSP, and which focuses on the critical role that agriculture must
play in pro-poor sustainable development and growth. This project will
assist the government in implementing medium and long-term measures to
diversify agriculture, increase access to inputs, improve market
infrastructure and information, encourage more reliable and ecologically
sustainable agricultural practices, encourage more sustainable alternative
land uses, and reduce dependence on livelihoods vulnerable to drought,
such as farming with traditional crops. It will promote demand-based
technology generation, and build capacity of the private sector and of
NGOs to effectively deliver key services in rural areas. These measures
are expected to enhance food security, increase incomes and reduce
poverty, and thereby increase the number of rural households that can cope
with stressful natural events. The proposed emergency project fits well
within a series of initiatives planned or under implementation that are
designed to promote household food security, enhance welfare, and
- 5-



strengthen household capacity to face droughts. In addition, the
emergency operation will support social safety net operations through
either existing or enhanced mechanisms. These interventions are expected
to be scaled down at the end of their implementation period once food
production returns to normal. The longer-term objective is to strengthen
the nation's social safety net system, to enable the government to respond
rapidly to people's needs during emergencies, while continuing to assist
the most vulnerable during normal times.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from previous emergency operations have been taken into
account in the design of the project, and the project
preparation/appraisal has benefited from the advice of teams involved in
responding to similar emergencies in other countries. Key lessons
reflected in the project design are:
n Including measures to enhance government's capacity to monitor food
security and detect impending harvest shortfalls, plan effectively to
mitigate their impact, and efficiently manage actions for recovery is very
important. Had this been pursued following the last severe drought of
1991/92 the country may have been better able to cope with the current
drought. The project includes measures to strengthen the government's
early warning system and to improve its capacity to mitigate and respond
to emergencies.
n Emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable, and not
burdened with conditionality. This project is simple, focuses on
supporting activities that are already underway and on importing key
commodities, and includes no policy-oriented conditionalities.
n Interventions should focus on meeting the needs of the most vulnerable
groups in society. This project supports the government's safety net
programs.
n The operation should focus on sectors immediately affected, and not
undertake too broad an agenda of cross-cutting issues. This project is
narrow in scope, supporting just critical imports and government
initiatives that are already underway.
n Commitment and ownership of the borrower are critical for successful
implementation. This project responds to the government's direct appeal
to the Bank for aid.
n Speed in preparation, appraisal, and implementation are critical
elements of success. Preparation of this project started on Sept 9,
2002. Preparation was completed in two weeks, and the project was
negotiated on October 10, 2002. This compares with the average project
preparation time for Zambia of 18 months. The project's simple, focused
design, and its reliance on existing institutional structures and
arrangements for implementation will almost certainly guarantee that the
project is completed within the two years envisaged.
Benefits and Risks
Benefits: Major benefits expected to accrue from the project are: (a)
- 6 -



increased likelihood that the government will be able to prevent deaths
and illness from the present food shortages; (b) ability to maintain
investments in health and education which are critical to longer-term
poverty reduction; (c) enhanced capacity for the most vulnerable groups to
access goods and services by providing temporary employment and income
supplements though public works and other targeted interventions; and (d)
improved access to services, inputs, and markets in rural areas; and (e)
strengthened early warning system and enhanced capacity for disaster
management in the future. The project will complement the assistance
provided by other donors and agencies and act as a catalyst for additional
assistance.
Risks: The operation faces several risks. Delays may occur in delivery of
the humanitarian assistance pledged by donors. The current debate on
genetically-modified food may reduce the amount of food aid that can be
delivered and made available in the country. Transporting and
distributing food to remote areas of the country may prove difficult. So
far, the amount of food aid and commercial imports has been very limited
and the additional food requirement has to be imported in a period of
three to four months. In the event of late orders or logistical
bottlenecks, a large number of Zambians may be severely impacted by the
effect of drought despite the best efforts of all parties concerned. To
mitigate this risk, the Bank will provide support to the government to
facilitate delivery of essential commodities to the affected population
and to strengthen the DMMU with a qualified and experienced logistics
manager. Moreover, a condition of effectiveness is that the government
establishes a committee consisting of all the key donors to coordinate,
monitor, and report on pledges, shipments, movement of food and supplies,
and distribution to beneficiaries.
Lack of transparency and mismanagement of relief food is also a risk.
This risk will be minimized by establishing effective mechanisms for
reporting, monitoring, and auditing; consulting with and involving
communities in the operation; and providing regular public information.
The effective operation of the joint steering committee and the
strengthened the DMMU will minimize a further risk of fragmentation and
insufficient coordination by the various actors.
Low local capacity for management may also hinder operations. Involving
NGOs and communities in implementing the project will minimize this risk.
A final risk relates to the danger of reverting to "business as usual"
once the crisis abates, without putting into place strengthened capacity
to forecast and to manage future crises. This risk is being addressed by
strengthening the government's early warning system and capacity for
disaster management. Weather patterns are unpredictable, and there is no
guarantee that adverse condition will not persist next year. Thus, the
present operation will enhance government's capacity to recognize problems
as they develop and to respond appropriately.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no significant environmental issues
arising from this project. The rural roads interventions, which are
mainly spot improvements within existing rights of way, have triggered
safeguard policies and the operation is classified as Category B.
- 7 -



Therefore, the operation will have its own environmental and social
assessment framework, and a resettlement policy framework.      These will
provide the basis, mechanisms, and guidelines for screening, assessment,
and mitigation measures to be applied during implementation.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Tekola Dejene
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4144
Fax:   (202) 477-0515
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 8, 2002.
-8-



