                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34926

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (IDA-37190 GRTD-H0120 TF-20820 TF-53034)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.8 MILLION
                                   (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              AND GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.2 MILLION
                                   (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                                FOR THE

                           EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT




                                           JANUARY 31, 2006




Environmental, Rural and Social Development Unit, AFTS1
Country Department 3, Zambia
Africa Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 9, 2005)

                          Currency Unit = Zambia Kwacha (ZMK)
                                  1 SDR = US$ 1.419860
                                   US$ 1 = ZMK 3,525

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1   December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADRA       Adventist Development and Relief Agency
BOZ        Bank of Zambia
CBP        Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CLUSA      Cooperative Leage of the USA
CSO        Central Statistical Office
DMM        Disasters Management and Mitigation
DMMU       Disasters Management and Mitigation Unit
DNEI       Diseases of National Economic Importance
DWA        Department for Water Affairs
EDRP       Emergency Drought Recovery Project
EDP        Emergency Drought Project
EOC        Emergency Operations Centre
EWS        Early Warning System
FMD        Foot and Mouth Disease
FSP        Food Security Packs
GRZ        Government of Republic of Zambia
HIPC       Highly Indebted Poor Country
MACO       Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MCDSS      Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
MET        Meteorological Department
MEWD       Ministry of Energy and Water Development
MIS        Management and Information System
MLGH       Ministry of Local Government and Housing
NRFA       National Roads Fund Agency
NORAD      Norwegian Agency for Development
OVP        Office of the Vice President
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
PAM        Program Against Malnutrition
PRP        Poverty Reduction Program
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Support Program
PUSH       Program for Urban Self Help
PWP        Public Works Program
ROADSIP    Road Sector Investment Program
VA         Vulnerability Assessment
VAC        Vulnerability Assessment Committee
ZAMSIF     Zambia Social Investment Fund

                 Vice President:  Gobind Nankani
             Country Director:    Hartwig Schafer
               Sector Manager:    Richard G. Scobey
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alex Mwanakasale

                                           ZAMBIA
                            Emergency Drought Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report                                            22

Project ID: P080612                                                  Project Name: Emergency Drought Recovery Project
Team Leader: Alex Mwanakasale                                        TL Unit: AFTS1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Drought Recovery Project                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-37190;
                                                                                                     GRTD-H0120; TF-20820;
                                                                                                     TF-53034
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (40%); Other social services (28%); General
                            education sector (15%); Health (15%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Social safety nets (P); Natural disaster management (P); Nutrition and food security (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P); Improving labor markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/26/2002                                     Effective: 02/28/2003                02/28/2003
     Appraisal: 11/04/2002                                         MTR:                             04/19/2004
      Approval: 11/19/2002                                      Closing: 11/30/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA/OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT; REPUBLIC OF
                                           ZAMBIA/DMMU
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:                 Richard G. Scobey                              Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Team Leader at ICR:             Alex Mwanakasale                               Tekola Dejene
ICR Primary Author:             Lars Christian Moller


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the project were to assist the government in maintaining key commitments to its
economic and investment priorities as laid out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) while
meeting the exigencies of the food crisis, and to help restore productive capability of the affected
population. It was aimed at helping the Government to respond effectively to the 2001/02 drought, and to
supplement the Government's efforts and resources to: (a) prevent starvation and malnutrition in the
affected population; (b) support drought mitigation measures such as providing drinking water, improving
critical transport and logistical links, supporting health and sanitation services, providing support to keep
children in school and protecting the threatened livestock population; (c) support farmers to raise crops in
the next agricultural season; and (d) enhance government capacity for longer-term disaster management,
including support for developing an effective early warning system (EWS).

The project's objectives are fully consistent with the goals contained in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for Zambia, approved by the Board in March 2004, which included improving the living
conditions and protection of the poor/vulnerable households and communities in drought prone areas. The
project supported the Government of Zambia's own Drought Recovery and Mitigation Plan (October 2002)
and fits squarely with the country's overall development objectives as expressed in Zambia's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (2003).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objective was not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following four components:

(A) Quick-disbursing assistance to finance imports (US$30.75 million, or 54.4 percent of total project
costs). The positive list of imports included: (1) machinery and equipment; (2) agricultural inputs; (3)
petroleum products; (4) construction materials; (5) transport vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles; (6) livestock
and animal health products and veterinary supplies and equipment; (7) school supplies and equipment; (8)
medical supplies and equipment.         In addition, five activities were supported under this component,
including: potable water equipment, repairs of pontoons, and, procurement of meteorological equipment,
tractors and Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) equipment.

(B) Social safety net interventions (public works) (US$10.60 million, or 18.7 percent of total project costs).
The objective was twofold: First, to provide in-cash assistance through a public works program to
vulnerable groups thereby enabling them to secure food and other essential goods and services. Secondly,
to invest in removing critical transport bottlenecks so as to improve access to markets and public services
by expanding the Government public works program under on-going projects such as the Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP). The works undertaken were labor-intensive in order to
benefit the largest number of unskilled workers from the nearby communities. Two types of public works
were undertaken:     (a) road repair, improvement and maintenance; (b) other civil works, including
improvement of shallow drinking water wells, construction of VIP latrines, and repair/reconstruction of
dipping tanks. The works were constructed in areas severely affected by drought and included priority
works as identified by the communities.        The Public Works component received co-financing worth
US$3.38 million from the Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD) under a Trust Fund
executed by the Borrower.




                                                     - 2 -

(C) Agricultural rehabilitation (US$13.16 million, or 23.3 percent of total project costs).
This component consisted of (a) an agricultural input package delivered to vulnerable, but viable farmers,
and; (b) support to the animal disease control program. Agricultural inputs were delivered in the 2003/04
and 2004/05 growing seasons by three NGOs (PAM, CLUSA and ADRA) within the existing framework
of the government-supported Food Security Packs. Farmers received diversified seed, planting materials
and training in conservation farming and grain banking. The animal disease control sub-component was
targeted at the control of Diseases of National Economic Importance (DNEI). The major DNEIs covered
were Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP), Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), theileriosis (East
Coast Fever - ECF), tsetse transmitted trypanosomosis, anthrax and rabies.

(D) Improving early warning system and disaster management and mitigation capacity (US$2.04 million,
or 3.6 percent of total project costs). This component aimed at improving the early warning system and
enhancing government capacity to manage and mitigate disasters through technical assistance, equipment,
training, and studies.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised during project implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project paid high attention to poverty and social aspects by
including poor and vulnerable households as the direct beneficiaries of the intervention. Readiness for
implementation was also high since the project, to a large extent, scaled up existing government programs.
This assessment is supported by the QAG Country Lending Assessment Task Questionnaire which
observes that project objectives were well defined, the operation simple and the implementation plan clearly
designed. That said, the project concept (emergency operation) was appropriate only to the extent that
activities focused on issues of an urgent and short-term nature. Improvement of food security does not fall
into this category.    This contradiction negatively affected project performance and contributed to a
7-months extension of the project. Finally, project performance indicators were underdeveloped focusing
mainly on outputs rather than outcomes.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome is rated moderately satisfactory as the project largely achieved its development objectives
particularly in terms of maintaining government commitment to its reform and poverty reduction programs
and in supporting government drought mitigation measures. Most of the originally identified performance
targets were met. This includes: (1) Almost complete disbursement (99%) to finance imports under the
positive list, which played a key role in addressing the 2003 balance of payments crises; (2) 151,709
beneficiaries participated in the public works program (target 160,000) by improving 2,881 km of roads
(target 1,400 km); (3) 191,950 farming households supported over two agricultural seasons (target
120,000); (4) attainment of targets in reducing the prevalence of important animal diseases, including ECF,
CBPP, Trypanosomiasis and Anthrax; (5) preparation and approval of a Disaster Management and
Mitigation Policy and Disaster Management Operations Manual as well as a draft Disaster Management
and Mitigation Law currently pending parliamentary approval.         Individual components are evaluated
separately below.

(A) The Quick-disbursement component is rated highly satisfactory. Private sector imports under the
positive list amounting to US$17.5 million effectively worked as direct budget and balance of payments
support. It assisted the Government in maintaining its reform and poverty reduction program which
culminated in attaining the completion point of the Highly Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) initiative in April


                                                     - 3 -

2005. Arguably, the adjustment path towards HIPC completion point would have been more painful in the
absence of the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP). Budget and balance of payments support
had a positive impact on the Zambian economy through two different transmission mechanisms. First, the
direct budget support enabled the government to import maize to cover the food deficit thereby easing
inflationary pressures. The government was also able to maintain existing spending programs and avoid
budgetary diversions towards drought mitigation activities, which would otherwise have undermined
long-term development objectives. Alternatively, the government could have increased domestic borrowing
with the undesirable effect of crowding-out the private sector thereby increasing interest rates. Secondly,
the balance of payment support strengthened the exchange rate and helped improve the foreign exchange
reserve position of Bank of Zambia at a critical time when the country was facing a balance of payments
crises. Support under the second sub-component (imported public sector capital goods worth US$13.2
million) enabled the government to work towards restoring agricultural production (fertilizer and seeds),
improving market access of rural people through repair of critical transport bottlenecks (repair of pontoon
engines), expanding access to drinking water in drought-prone areas (rigs, bowsers and spares), and to
maintaining medical and veterinary services (epidemic drugs and vaccines). The physical capacity of
Government has been enhanced in terms of expanding access to safe water (drilling rigs), producing
high-quality weather forecasts (meteorological equipment) and operating with increased mobility and
communication during emergencies (tractors, radios and trucks).

(B) The social safety net intervention component (public works) is rated moderately satisfactory. The
project generated employment income for 151,709 vulnerable people in the drought affected areas enabling
them to purchase food and other essential goods and services. Beneficiaries also acquired useful road
maintenance skills during their participation in the project. The conversion of footpaths into main feeder
roads and the construction of vented bridges linked previously disconnected road networks in several
communities, thereby reducing transportation distances and time. This, in turn, improved access of the
rural communities to markets and facilitated access to and delivery of essential public services, including
education, health care, safe water and agricultural extension services. There is some evidence hereof in the
impact assessment study where 36.6 percent of the respondents indicated that their market access was
constrained by distance (the project reduced distances by connecting previously disconnected road
networks). Further, 15.2 percent said that the attendance of pupils at school had improved because of the
project. Finally, 12.6 percent indicated that the project had improved access to health services due to higher
ability to pay.

Implementation performance was mixed due to substantial delays in payment of contractors who in turn
delayed payment of wages (sometimes up to six months). Delays were caused by poor coordination among
the institutions involved in the verification of works and the cumbersome process of approval and
disbursement of funds involving up to seven different agencies. The cash payments to the workers were
therefore not always made at the critical time when people needed to buy food.              Nevertheless, all
participants were eventually paid and this enabled them to buy other essential goods and services, such as
shoes, clothing or health services.

All infrastructure activities were completed within the project implementation period, with the exception of
the installation of bailey bridges, which accounted for less than 12 percent of disbursements under this
component. None were completed by project closure for two main reasons: First, the Bank's lengthy
procurement process delayed signing of contracts and thus work commenced late. Secondly, the time
required to complete the works was poorly estimated. It should be noted that although these bridges were
not completed under the EDRP, the Bank is currently preparing an essential bridge rehabilitation project
for Zambia, which addresses this critical investment need.




                                                      - 4 -

(C) The agricultural rehabilitation component is rated moderately unsatisfactory, although certain parts of
the program did perform well such as livestock vaccination.           The ambitious objective of restoring
agricultural production was generally not attained. During the first season two of the three implementing
NGOs were unable to deliver inputs in due time, albeit for different reasons. ADRA experienced problems
with its supplier such that no fertilizer was delivered. PAM delivered inputs late because of a delay in
contract signing. During the second season, delivery of the agricultural input package was generally
timely, however, most of the harvest was severely affected by the partial drought, which undermined most
of the potentially positive impact on yields. According to the Comprehensive Vulnerability Assessment
Report (June 2005), crop losses in some affected areas were ranging between 20 and 90 percent. Had the
drought not occurred, this component would have been ranked moderately satisfactory. In fact, very few
farmers graduated from the program, according to the implementing NGOs, implying that a large number
of farmers continue to be dependent on this type of assistance.

The project designers were relatively optimistic about the willingness of beneficiaries to adopt new
technologies within the short time frame of the project - in this case 21 months (before the project was
extended). Given that smallholder farmers are risk averse, they may be unlikely to adopt a technology in
the short term. They generally tend to trust the technology they know best and may only shift to a superior
technology after it has been demonstrated to them on their own fields. A minimum of three years may be
necessary to build the confidence that is required for sustained adoption.

It could be argued that this intervention, to some extent, has increased the level of uncertainty in farming
communities. Although unintended by design, anecdotal evidence suggests that beneficiaries were unsure
about whether they would receive any inputs during the 2005/06 agricultural season, which was covered by
the Government, but not by the project.

On the positive side, some farmers did experience higher yields in the seasons they received assistance. The
impact assessment study suggests an increase in the number of meals taken from one to two per day,
although it is not clear what proportion of the households achieved this. Similarly, some farmers did
benefit from training in conservation farming techniques (mainly potholing) and some communities may
also have established viable grain banks.

Finally, under the animal vaccination component the following outcomes were successfully achieved: (1)
reduced outbreaks of animal diseases of national economic importance (see Annex 1 for details); (2)
steadily increasing calving rate in the smallholder sector from 40 percent in 2002 to 45 percent in 2005; (3)
decreasing adult and calf mortality in the smallholder sector from 12 percent to 10 percent and from 25
percent to 20 percent between 2002 and 2005.

(D) The component aimed at improving the national early warning system (EWS) and disaster mitigation
and management (DMM) capacity is rated satisfactory. The physical capacity of the Disaster Mitigation
and Management Unit (DMMU) to handle the logistical challenges of DMM has been markedly improved
through the acquisition and rehabilitation of urgently needed trucks, tractors, and communications
equipment. The Emergency Operations Center (EOC) is now fully equipped and is expected to become
operational within a few months. The EDRP also financed a number of activities aimed at improving the
institutional capacity of the DMMU, such as staff training and a study on Management Information System
(MIS) and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). DMMU has so far not implemented the findings of this
study because of its budgetary implications.

The EWS consists of the following four core institutions:          Early Warning Unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MACO), DMMU, the Meteorological Department and the Central


                                                     - 5 -

Statistical Office. The Early Warning Unit (MACO) is the secretariat of this system, but the EWS
technical committee does not meet regularly. Although the EDRP has built capacity within each of the core
EWS institutions through training, provision of equipment and vehicles and upgrading the weather stations,
the various agencies still function in isolation of one another. The same four governmental bodies,
however, meet monthly in a broader forum, namely the Vulnerability Assessment Committee (VAC), which
also includes donors and NGOs. The VAC is chaired by the Office of the Vice President (OVP) and
DMMU functions as its secretariat. It is through the forum of the VAC that DMMU can fulfill its mandate
of coordinating overall DMM activities in Zambia.

There are several indications that the EWS handled this year's food crisis relatively better than in previous
years. First, the meteorological equipment enhanced the quality of the ten-day weather forecasts used to
produce the Crop Forecasting Survey conducted jointly by MACO and CSO (although this was completed
belatedly). Secondly, timely early warning information was provided by the monthly Crop Monitoring
Survey enabling the VAC and NGOs to identify vulnerable communities and source donor support.
Thirdly, the comprehensive Vulnerability Assessment (VA) spearheaded by DMMU was initiated in
February and completed more rapidly than usual: its findings were announced by the Vice President in June
2005. On the basis of the VA findings, DMMU acted very proactively to produce a political response to
the growing food crisis and for the Government to launch an appeal (although it failed to chair regular
consultative meetings in the critical months thereafter). Despite DMMU pressure a donor appeal was not
launched until October and an additional month passed before the President declared a national disaster.
The Government's hesitation to declare a national disaster was related to its intention of dealing with the
emerging situation on its own without reliance of external assistance. While commendable, this approach
relied heavily on the Government's ability to facilitate a private sector import response. This, however, did
not happen because the Government sent very unclear signals about its own intentions as illustrated by the
decision on whether or not to remove the maize import duty and the Government eventually had to launch
the appeal.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(A) Quick disbursing assistance to finance imports.         Ninety-nine percent (US$30.75 million) of the
allocated funds were disbursed. Private sector imports totaled US$17.5 million of which US$8.7 million
were financed retroactively.    To minimize transaction costs, the project deliberately selected import
contracts with large dollar amounts. This lead to some concentration in the number of importers (six) and
product types (five):    Petroleum (51.4 percent), communications equipment (17.8 percent), mining
equipment (17.8 percent), fertilizer (9.4 percent) and plastic products (3.7 percent).        The remaining
disbursement of US$13.25 million was spent on importing public sector capital goods, which were
procured and delivered as explained below:

    l Three new drilling rigs and spares for 13 existing drilling rigs (8 of these are now operating), four
         water bowsers and instruments for hydrological surveys and regular water table monitoring for the
         Department of Water Affairs (DWA). Spares and equipment for 250 new boreholes and 525 old
         boreholes. By project closure, 45 new boreholes had been drilled and 188 boreholes had been
         rehabilitated.
    l Four new engines used for rehabilitation of two pontoons in Kazangula district. Both pontoons
         were commissioned and are now in service.
    l Meteorological equipment for 18 weather forecasting stations (monitoring and communications
         equipment) under the Department of Meteorology.
    l Ten new DMMU tractors distributed to needy districts for movement of essential supplies to
         affected populations in inaccessible areas during emergencies. Another 26 DMMU tractors were
         rehabilitated. One 15-ton and two 10-ton trucks and three 4x4 motor vehicles. Communications



                                                     - 6 -

         equipment for headquarters and all four regional offices.
   l Equipment (computers, audio-visual equipment and fire extinguishers) for the EOC.
   l Fertilizer and drugs, vaccines and veterinary equipment for animal disease control for MACO.
   l Drugs for epidemics for Ministry of Health.


(B) Social safety nets. There were three sub-components: (1) Public works program: Major outputs
included: 151,709 individuals (target 160,000) participated in the program of which 46 percent were
women (target 60 percent). A total of 2,881 km of roads (target 1,200 km) were made accessible. This
activity also enhanced road construction and maintenance skills of the beneficiaries. (2) Strengthening the
capacity of the DMMU operations, logistics and management section: Appropriate sections on logistics
management in the Disaster Operations Manual were completed and the Core Logistic Committee was
reactivated. A database was developed enabling DMMU to systematically store and update information
about NGO's operating in Zambia. (3) A study to assess the social impact of the public works program
was completed. While the project originally envisioned some limited support for school feeding programs,
this was not assessed as a priority during implementation and no specific activities were identified or
suppported.

(C) Agricultural rehabilitation. There were three sub-components: (1) Food Security Packs: The project
assisted 114,866 beneficiaries in the 2003/04 agricultural season and 77,084 beneficiaries in 2004/05 ­
most of whom were repeaters from the first season, thus a total of 191,950 against a target of 120,000.
The reduction in the number of beneficiaries was due to rising costs of transportation and planting
materials. (2) Animal disease control: A total of 24,500 cattle were treated for ECF (target 25,000);
91,000 cattle were vaccinated against ECF (target 100,000); 946,000 cattle were vaccinated against CBPP
(target 950,000); 279,000 cattle were vaccinated against Anthrax (280,000); 196,000 cattle were
vaccinated against FMD (target 200,000), and; 43,700 dogs were vaccinated against rabies (target
44,000). (3) An impact assessment study of the food security packs was also conducted.

(D) Improving EWS and DMM capacity. In addition to the equipment and vehicles imported under
component (A), the following activities were undertaken:
   l Completion of a Disaster Management Policy which was approved by a full cabinet meeting.
   l Completion of the Disaster Management Operations Manual, approved by the relevant
         stakeholders.
   l Completion of a Disaster Management and Mitigation Draft Law which is pending parliamentary
         approval.
   l Completion of a DMMU study of the Management Information System (MIS) and Monitoring and
         Evaluation.
   l Completion of a study on the institutional strengthening and change of the Meteorological
         Department.
   l Various training activities: Two staff in the Meteorological Department (two-year diploma course)
         and five staff in Early Warning Unit (database management, IT and project management) and 14
         DMMU staff (various disciplines).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As common with these types of operations, no economic or financial analysis was carried out at appraisal,
which could be used as a comparative baseline; hence no such analyses were attempted in this ICR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.




                                                    - 7 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact is rated as modest. The main component relating to balance of payments and budget support
did not have any explicit institutional development objective or activities. Similarly, the social safety nets
and agricultural rehabilitation components were scaling up existing government programs which did not
require any significant institutional strengthening. Thus, the project only aimed to build institutional
capacity in the DMMU and the other members of the EWS through various training activities and studies.
These interventions were relatively successful as evidenced by the adequate response of the EWS during the
2005 food crises.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although Zambia has experienced positive economic growth rates over the last three years, rural poverty
continues to be widespread. The high incidence of HIV/AIDS limits the ability of households to recover
from the shocks occasioned by droughts or floods. Zambia suffered another drought during the 2004/05
season after two successive good seasons. The changing weather patterns in terms of a shorter rainy
season and prolonged dry spells is a source of concern which requires sustained efforts to adjust
smallholder productions systems.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The erratic availability of counterpart funding during the first twelve months of project implementation
slowed down the prompt submission of withdrawal applications. In one case the government owed the
project a substantial amount which was erroneously paid out of project funds.            Since this was an
emergency operation, counterpart funds should have been readily available to finance project activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The substantial delays of paying workers in the public works program were partly a consequence of
multiple layers of disbursement and approval involving up to seven different agencies. Although this was
partly a design issue, the delays were exacerbated by a lack of proactivity on the part of the implementing
agencies. To illustrate, the public works component had a tripartite arrangement where the Ministry of
Local Government and Housing certified the works after inspection, the National Road Fund Agency
(NRFA) was responsible for channeling of funds while the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Office
of the Vice President was responsible for disbursement and overall management.               The signing of
certificates was often delayed because works had to be inspected before payment could be made.
Moreover, the PIU could not disburse before NRFA properly accounted for previous disbursement. This
arrangement resulted in delayed reporting, delayed disbursement and delayed payment of wages. Some
wages remained unpaid for months to an extent which cannot be explained by cash flow problems on the
special account.

Implementation of the public works during the rainy season was optimal from the point of view of
construction. This, however, created some tension between the employment opportunities offered under the
public works program and the regular farming activities. In some sites, people chose to farm thus making
it difficult to attract sufficient labor to complete the work as planned. In other sites, farmers chose to
participate in the public works program and, as a consequence, may have spent less time on their farms.
To avoid this type of distortion, participants were not allowed to work more than 4-5 hours per day, yet this
rule was not always implemented in practice. There was insufficient evidence to assess the extent to which
agricultural output may have been negatively affected as a consequence.




                                                     - 8 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original allocations for the Credit and the Grant were US$30 million (SDR 22.8 million equivalent)
and US$20 million (SDR 15.2 million equivalent) respectively. The total amount disbursed amounted to
US$56.55 million, which includes a disbursement of US$2.91 million (out of $3.38 million allocated)
under the NORAD grant funded by the Norwegian government.                 The combined Credit and Grant
disbursements amounted to 99 percent of the original allocation.          This overall achievement was a
consequence of diligent monitoring of disbursements and financing needs by the PIU with support from the
Bank task team.       Nevertheless, disbursements initially lagged behind schedule. During the 2003/04
agricultural season, the combined funding needs of the Food Security Packs and Public Works Program
exceeded the ceiling of one of the special accounts.         This caused substantial delays in payment of
contractors and beneficiaries under the public works program. The monthly disbursement requirement
during that season amounted to US$2.5 million against the PIU's second special account ceiling of
US$750,000, thus resulting in arrears. This problem was eventually addressed and the Loan Department
was able to release the full US$1.5 million into the special account. Towards the end of the agricultural
season, funding needs for the food security packs declined which, along with the increased special account
ceiling, finally allowed the PIU to clear its arrears. Disbursements increased steadily thereafter: 60 percent
of the Grant/Credit was disbursed by March 2004, 74 percent by December 2004 and 99 percent by end of
project. Even though internal audits were not carried out until October 2004, the PIU was quick in
addressing the minor irregularities which emerged from the audit. The quality of financial management
reports was satisfactory, although the PIU occasionally missed the submission deadlines. No physical
progress reports (measuring physical outputs against financial cost) were produced despite several
reminders and efforts to rectify the issue. The lack of progress reports made it difficult, for instance, to
verify the status of counterpart funds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the overall project is likely because sustainability of the quick-disbursing component,
which was the heart of the project, is highly likely. Individual components were rated as follows:

(A) Sustainability of impact of the quick-disbursement assistance, the largest component of the project, is
highly likely. The EDRP made the adjustment path towards HIPC completion point less painful and this
improves the sustainability of the current macroeconomic position. Past, current and future support from
other Bank projects, notably the Economic Management and Growth Credit (Phase I and II) and from the
Fund-supported Poverty and Economic Growth Facility (PGRF) are major contributory factors in this
respect. The underlying tools for managing public expenditure are also being strengthened through the
implementation of the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Program, which is
supported by a wide range of development partners.

(B) Sustainability of impact of the public works program is unlikely. The project did not establish a
framework for periodic maintenance of secondary and tertiary roads by the community or local authorities.
The roads and bridges constructed have not yet been gazetted and there are no arrangements in place to
ensure that this will happen. These facilities need to be comprehensively mapped, inspected and gazetted in
order for the Government to maintain and rehabilitate them in the future. Alternatively, the Government
could assist the communities in setting-up local maintenance committees and a Road Maintenance Fund to
ensure sustainability. Local communities may not necessarily engage in systematic maintenance without
sufficient guidance despite the training received under the project.




                                                      - 9 -

(C) Sustainability of the Food Security Packs for the beneficiaries in the 2003/04 and 2004/05 seasons
under the EDRP is unlikely. The period of intervention (two seasons) was too short and negatively affected
by late input deliveries and drought implying that very few farmers graduated from the program.

(D) Sustainability of the capacity building activities is likely. The policy and operational framework for
EWS and DMM has been developed. Training received was highly relevant and staff are likely to make
use of it in their current field of work. There are sufficient donor resources, notably from USAID and
DFID, to finance future EWS activities in the short to medium-term.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This project was implemented through existing government channels.            Transition arrangements were
therefore clearly identified at appraisal and the expectation is that government will continue its spending
program, albeit at a reduced funding level. Some of the incompleted activities funded under EDRP have
been or are expected to be completed by government after project closure. Department of Water Affairs
has continued implementing the planned activities after project closure using operational resources under
the Poverty Reduction Program (PRP). The transparency of the investment program is likely to ensure that
the originally identified EDRP communities will continue to benefit from DWA activities after project
closure. The awareness of EDRP communities about these plans will, to some extent, counter political
pressures to invest elsewhere. All activities under components (B) and (C) were scaled up from existing
government programs. Whereas the public works program was implemented only as a cash transfer to
mitigate adverse situations like droughts, labor based methods for the maintenance of rural roads within the
agencies responsible for these activities are an established way of maintaining rural roads. Likewise, the
food security program is necessitated by high levels of food insecurity among rural households. The
MCDSS has a regular budget which it uses to sub-contract this activity to PAM, although funding for this
activity has fallen substantially in recent years. The EDRP Project Implementation Unit in DMMU has
now been closed down and recurrent activities have been transferred to DMMU.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank responded very quickly to the needs of the
client: Bank assistance was requested by GRZ on August 14, 2002. The preparation and appraisal
mission took place on September 2-22, 2002 and the EDRP was agreed with government in the beginning
of October. Board approval was granted on October 28, 2002. As reviewed earlier, the quality of the
preparation and appraisal was relatively high.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during implementation was moderately unsatisfactory. There was a high staff turnover
on the Bank side - the project had four different TTLs over a period of just 28 months. Although the latter
TTL had been involved in the project over a longer period before becoming TTL, there was inevitably some
loss of continuity. More importantly, the existing Bank procedures at the time with respect to procurement,
disbursement and no-objection requests caused implementation delays which had a negative impact on
project performance.     These delays, some of which were caused by the absence of a Lusaka-based
procurement specialist, were particularly sensitive given the Borrower's need for urgent action. The
Borrower expressed the need for special treatment, more flexibility and rapid execution in Bank-operated
emergency operations and suggested a special rule set or even an emergency desk at the Bank headquarters
to accommodate their special needs. It should be noted, however, that the Bank has developed less rigid
procurement rules (such as Community-Driven Development Procurement rules) since the conception of
this project, which might at least partially reduce some of the tensions mentioned above.



                                                     - 10 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly satisfactory. The government had a well articulated drought mitigation plan which outlined its
drought mitigation policies, strategies, and interventions for the short, medium and long term. This
considerably reduced the project preparation time. Government also supported the preparation mission at
the highest level and had a full staff compliment of the preparation team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Since the EDRP was a multi-sectoral intervention, it was usefully implemented through a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) located in DMMU of the OVP. The PIU was relatively well managed
and effective in overseeing the implementation of project activities, although it should have used its
leverage vis-a-vis the implementing line ministries to help reducing delays. Although the PIU was manned
by consultants, each of the consultants had a local counterpart (in DMMU) who was fully integrated into
the operations of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Moderately satisfactory.     A few shortcomings were recorded during implementation which affected
progress, including: (1) most implementing agencies did not produce regular M&E reports rendering
monitoring of project activities difficult; (2) there was a lack of proactivity among all agencies in their
ability to quickly follow up outstanding issues with the PIU or the Bank; (3) there was a tendency for the
NRFA to delay the processing of transactions for withdrawal applications.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1. The EDRP aimed at incorporating lessons learned from previous emergency projects. According to the
    EDRP Board Document, `Emergency operations must be simple and rapidly executable,...and not
    undertake too broad an agenda of cross-cutting issues'. Further, `Speed in ... implementation are
    critical elements of success'. These lessons remain valid, but were generally not practiced by EDRP.
2. Short term and long term objectives should not be combined in one lending instrument. The EDRP
    project activities fell between two types of interventions: a crisis mitigation and a long-term
    development intervention. The project would have been more successful if it had focused on crisis
    mitigation activities.   When engaging in emergency operations, the Bank should focus on its
    comparative advantage, which tilts towards budget and balance of payments support, as demonstrated
    by the development and sustainability ratings of this project. The Emergency Drought Project (EDP) in
    Malawi (approved by the Board in September 2005) is an example of current best practice.
3. The Bank needs to apply its disbursement and procurement guidelines more flexibly in future
    emergency projects in order to adequately meet the urgent needs of the client. More extensive use of
    special accounts could be considered as an option to speed up approvals and payments. Similarly,
    either more flexible procurement procedures need to be developed or a system of waivers should be
    available from the current procurement procedures. This issue is of particular importance if the Bank
    intends to provide urgent and direct assistance to vulnerable groups within a short time period.
4. The implementation of a multi-sectoral project, such as the EDRP, should be complemented by
    multi-sectoral donor coordination to avoid duplication and inconsistencies. In the case of support to the



                                                    - 11 -

    EWS, for instance, the Bank was promoting DMMU as a national focal point and coordinator, while
    other donors (notably USAID) supported the Early Warning Secretariat of MACO to attain a similar
    role.  This lack of coordination may have exacerbated existing tensions between the two EWS
    members.
5. Appropriate outcome-oriented monitoring and evaluation indicators must be identified at appraisal,
    even in an emergency operation when project preparation time is limited. Efforts were made to address
    the limitations of the EDRP indicators during the first implementation review mission. The PIU was
    subsequently charged with identifying additional project performance indicators, but ultimately failed
    to complete the task.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
              Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate




Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
              Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Imports under the positive list         US$33.6 million                     US$30.8 million
                                        (96% of original amount)
                                        SDR 21.75 million                   SDR 21.56 million (99%)
Public works program:
Number of participants                  160,000                             151,709
Share of women                          60%                                 46%
Kilometers of roads improved            1,400 km                            2,881 km
Farming households receiving the food   120,000 (2003/04)                   114,866 (2003/04)
security packs                          120,000 (2004/05)                   77,084 (2004/05)
Cases of East Coast Fever (ECF)         50,000                              48,000
Cases of Contagious Bovine              1                                   1
Pleuropneumonia (CBP)
Cases of Trypanosomiasis                15,000                              15,300
Cases of Anthrax                        2                                   2
Disaster Management Policy              Developed and approved.             Developed and approved.
Disaster Management Operations Manual   Developed and approved.             Developed and approved.
Disaster Management Draft Law           Developed and approved.             Draft pending parliamentary approval.

1End of project




                                                          - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              Appraisal          Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                              Component                                       Estimates            Estimate               Appraisal
                                                                            US$ million          US$ million    1


A. Quick-disbursing assistance to finance imports                              35.00                 30.75                     88
B. Social safety net    2                                                        7.30                10.90                   149
C. Agricultural inputs and technologies                                          7.16                13.32                   186
D. Improving early warning system and disaster                                   1.02                  2.06                  202
management and mitigation
Total Baseline Cost                                                            50.48                 57.03
                                     Total Project Cost                        50.48                 57.03
                           Total Financing Required                            50.48                 57.03
1
 Actual figures include estimated counterpart funds as the PIU did not track these by component.
2
 Actual figures include NORAD Trust fund of which US$2.91 million was disbursed.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
     Expenditure Category                                                                   1
                                                                Procurement Method                                         Total Cost

                                         Modified ICB             NCB                        2
                                                                                     Other               N.B.F.

 1. Quick                                     35.00               0.00                 0.00               0.00              35.00
 Disbursement/Eligible                      (35.00)                                                                         (35.00)
 imports
 2. Works                                     0.00                0.00                 6.30               0.22               6.52
                                                                 (0.00)               (6.30)             (0.00)             (6.30)
 3. Goods and equipment                       0.00                6.10                 0.00               0.23               6.33
                                                                 (6.10)               (0.00)             (0.00)             (6.10)
 4. Consultants' services                     0.00                0.00                 1.69               0.00               1.69
                                                                 (0.00)               (1.69)             (0.00)             (1.69)
 5. Training                                  0.00                0.00                 0.11               0.00               0.11
                                                                 (0.00)               (0.11)             (0.00)             (0.11)
 6. Operating Costs                           0.00                0.00                 0.80               0.03               0.83
                                                                 (0.00)               (0.80)             (0.00)             (0.80)
 Total                                        35.00               6.10                 8.90               0.48              50.48
                                            (35.00)              (6.10)               (8.90)             (0.00)             (50.00)
1
 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2
 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
PIU, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (1) managing the project, and; (2)
re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                              - 14 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
         Expenditure Category                                                                  1
                                                                   Procurement Method                                         Total Cost

                                            Modified ICB             NCB                        2                  3
                                                                                        Other               N.B.F.
    1. Quick                                     30.75               0.00                 0.00               0.00               30.75
    Disbursement/Eligible                      (30.75)                                                      (0.00)             (30.75)
    imports
    2. Works                                     0.00                0.00                 6.75               2.75               9.50
                                                                    (0.00)               (6.75)             (0.00)             (6.75)
    3. Goods and equipment                       0.00                9.83                 0.00               0.30               10.13
                                                                    (9.83)               (0.00)             (0.00)             (9.83)
    4. Consultants' services                     0.00                0.00                 4.69               0.24               4.93
                                                                    (0.00)               (4.69)             (0.00)             (4.69)
    5. Training                                  0.00                0.00                 0.27               0.07               0.34
                                                                    (0.00)               (0.27)             (0.00)             (0.27)
    6. Operating Costs                           0.00                0.00                 1.35               0.03               1.38
                                                                    (0.00)               (1.35)             (0.00)             (1.35)
    Total                                        30.75               9.83                13.06               3.39               57.03
                                               (30.75)              (9.83)             (13.06)              (0.00)             (53.64)
   1
    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/Grant. All costs include contingencies.
   2
    Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
   PIU, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (1) managing the project, and; (2)
   re-lending project funds to local government units.
   3
    The source of expensed counterpart funds is the EDRP Budget Report of August 13, 2004. The PIU was unable to produce an
   updated end-of-project report.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                       Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   IDA           Govt.        CoF.          IDA             Govt.       CoF.         IDA       Govt.  CoF.
A. Quick-disbursing                35.00          0.00        0.00          30.75           0.00                     87.9      0.0     0.0
assistance to finance
imports
B. Social safety net               7.00           0.30        0.00          7.69            0.30        2.91        109.9      100.0   0.0
C. Agricultural inputs and         7.00           0.16        0.00          13.16           0.16        0.00        188.0      100.0   0.0
technologies
D. Improving early                 1.00           0.02        0.00          2.04            0.02        0.00        204.0      100.0   0.0
warning system and
disaster management and
mitigation

   Estimates and actual/latest estimate: Government figures include estimated counterpart funds based on data during project
   preparation as the PIU did not track these by component.




                                                                 - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 16 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Preparation/Appraisal
              09/23/2002             12     TTL (1); SR. ECON (1); LEAD
                                            PROC. SPEC (1); REG. ADVIS
                                            (1); SOC.DEV.SPEC. (1); ECON
                                            (1); AGRIC. OFFIC (1); PROC.
                                            OFFIC (1); FIN.MGMT SPEC
                                            (1); EDU.SPEC (1); IMPL.
                                            SPEC - CONS (1)


 Supervision
              06/18/2003              10    TTL (1); AGRI.OFFIC (1);         S               S
                                            CONS - IMPL. SPEC (1);
                                            SR.TRANS.SPEC (1);
                                            PROC. SPEC. (1);
                                            FIN.MGMT SPEC. (1); SR.
                                            OPER.ANALYST (1); M&E
                                            SPEC. (1); HGHWAY
                                            ENGIN. (1); ACS (1)
              10/31/2003               8    TTL (1); M&E SPEC. (1);          S               S
                                            IMPLEMENT SPEC. (1); FIN
                                            MGMT SPEC. (1);
                                            AGRIC.OFFIC (1);
                                            PROC.SPEC. (1); LEAD
                                            OPER.OFFIC. (1); ACS (1)
              04/20/2004               8    TTL (1); SR TRANSP.SPEC.         S               S
                                            (1); IMPL.SPEC. (1); LEAD
                                            OPER.OFFIC. (1); FIN.MGMT
                                            SPEC. (1); SR. FIN. MGMT
                                            SPEC. (1); PROC.SPEC. (1);
                                            AGRIC.OFFC. (1)
              12/17/2004               6    TTL (1); ARD ADVISOR (1);        S               S
                                            IMPL.SPEC. (1);
                                            SR.TRANS.SPEC. (1);
                                            SR.FIN.MGMT SPEC. (1);
                                            FIN.MGMT SPEC. (1)
              05/19/2005               5    TTL (1); SR.FIN.ANALYST (1);     S               S
                                            FIN.MGMT SPEC. (1);
                                            TRANSP.SPEC. (1);
                                            SR.HGHWAY ENGIN. (1)

 ICR
              12/18/05                 3     TTL (1); AGRIC.OFFIC.           S               S
                                             (1); ACS (1)




                                             - 17 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Preparation/Appraisal                    35                          140
  Supervision                              81                          358
  ICR                                      18                           56
  Total                                  134                           554




                                            - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


- ADRA Zambia, 2005, `Food Security Input ­ Packs: Final Report (2004/2005 Farming Season)'.
- CLUSA, 2004, `Identification and Targeting report'.
- CLUSA-ZAMBIA, 2005, `Food Security Pack ­ Final Report'.
- DMMU, 2004, `Impact Assessment of Food Security Pack and its Effectiveness food security amongst
smallholder farmers'.
- DMMU, 2005, `Report for Quarter ending December 2004'.
- DMMU, 2005, `National Disaster Management Policy'.
- DMMU, 2005, `Disaster Management Operations Manual'.
- DMMU, 2004 and 2005, Quarterly Monitoring and Evaluation Reports.
- DMMU, 2005, `Monitoring and Evaluation Plan for EDRP and DMMU Programs'.
- DMMU, 2005, `2005/2006 Disaster Relief Program ­ Proposed Coordination Mechanism'.
- DMMU, 2005, `Monitoring and Evaluation Plan for DMMU Programs ­ Focus: 2005/06 Disaster Relief
Program'.
- FIDA, 2004, `Mid-Term review report'.
- FAO, 2005, `Monthly Crop Monitoring Survey 2004/05'.
- Institute of Economic and Social Research, 2005, `Impact Assessment of the Food Security Pack and its
Effectiveness on enhancing food security among smallholder farmers'.
- Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, 2005, `Highlights of the 2004/05 Crop Forecasting Survey'.
- Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (Department of Veterinary and Livestock Development), 2005,
`EDRP/EADCP Completion Report'.
- Ministry of Community Development and Social Services, 2005, `The Targeted Food Security Program'.
- Mukhala E. and N. Kwendakwema, 2005, `Review of Agricultural Production Information Systems and
Assessment of the Crop Monitoring Project and Its Institutionalization', DFID and Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives.
- PAM, `Annual Report on Food Security (November 2004)'.
- PAM, `Highlights Report on Food Security, 2004-2005'.
- PAM, 2004, `Evaluation of Food Security Pack (November 2004)'.
- Program Against Malnutrition (PAM), 2005, `Food Security Pack ­ End of Project Report'
- Scott Wilson Piesold Zambia Limited, 2005, `Draft Social Impact Assessment Report Volumes I-III)'
- Vulnerability Assessment Committee, 2005, `Rapid Vulnerability and Needs Assessment' (October
2005).
- Vulnerability Assessment Committee, 2005, `2005 Vulnerability and Needs Assessment' (June 2005).
- World Bank Aide Memoirs for preparation and supervision missions (September 2002; June 2003,
October 2003, April 2004, December 2004 and May 2005).
- World Food Program, `Early Warning Report for the Period 1st to 10 December 2005'.




                                                  - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report

                         EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                           DECEMBER 2005




1 - WORLD BANK SUPPORT TO EDRP

The World Bank supported the EDRP through an IDA development Credit / Grant agreement number CR
3719 ZA and HO 120 ZA. The detailed data pertaining to the World Bank's support to government
through EDRP are tabulated below.



KEY PROJECT DATA - IDA

         Item                                             Details
Name of Project:                       Emergency Drought Recovery Project
Credit / Grant Number:                 3719 ZA / HO 120-ZA
Credit / Grant Amount:                 38,000,000.00 (SDR)
IDA Country and Region:                Zambia, Southern Africa
Sector:                                Social Safety Net
Dates:                                 Signing: 22nd November 2002
                                       Effectiveness: 28th February 2003
                                       Original Closing date: 30th November 2004
                                       Closing date first extension: 30th June 2005
                                       Closing date second extension: nil
Borrower:                              Government of the Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency:                   Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit through the
                                       Office of the Vice President.



2 - NORAD SUPPORT TO EDRP

The Norwegian Government also gave Zambia a grant through IDA to support Zambia's efforts and
resources in mitigating the negative impact of 2000/2001 and 2001/2002 drought. Details of the NORAD
support are tabulated below:




                                                   - 22 -

KEY PROJECT DATA ­ NORAD TRUST FUND

               Item                                      Details
Name of Project:               Emergency Drought Recovery Project
Grant Amount:                  US$ 3,382,589.45
Dates:                         World Bank approval: 27th February 2004
                               Signing: 6th September 2004
                               Effectiveness: 6th September 2004
                               Original Closing date: 30th November 2004
                               Closing date first extension: 30th June 2005
                               Closing date second extension: nil
Administration of Trust Fund   IDA
Recipient:                     Government of Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency            Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit through the
                               Office of the Vice President




                                           - 23 -

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




CAS     - Country Assistance Strategy
CBPP    - Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
DCA     - Development Credit Agreement.
DMMU    - Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit
DVLD    - Department of Veterinary and Livestock Development
DWA     - Department of Water Affairs.
ECF     - East Coast Fever
EDRP    - Emergency Drought Recovery Project
EOC     - Emergency Operation Centre
FMD     - Foot and Mouth Disease
FNDP    - Fifth National Development Plan
FSP     - Food Security Packs
ICR     - Implementation Completion Report
IDA     - International Development Association
IFAD    - International Fund for Agricultural Development
MACO    - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperation
MCDSS   - Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
MEWD    - Ministry of Energy and Water Development
M & E   - Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG     - Millennium Development Goals
MLG&H   - Ministry of Local Government and Housing
NAP     - National Agricultural Policy
NGOs    - Non-governmental Organisations
NRFA    - National Road Fund Agency
PRSP    - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG     - Quality Assurance Group
RAMP    - Rural Accessibility and Mobility Programme.
SDR     - Special Drawing Rights




                                       - 24 -

INTRODUCTION

   l Project supported government initiatives to mitigate the adverse effects of the 2000/2001 and
         2001/2002 droughts on the affected population.
   l It was divided into four components.


PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

   l In preparing the project appraisal document special consideration was given to the consistence of
         project activities to national development priorities. In this regard the project objectives were in line
         with Government priorities and the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which include:
             i)   Macro Economic Stability
             ii) Improving living conditions of the vulnerable people.
   l Specifically the project objectives were to assist the government of Zambia in maintaining key
         commitments to its economic and investment priorities laid down in the PRSP and also to help
         restore productive capacity of the affected people.

PROJECT GOALS

   l To import goods for drought mitigation ­ provide foreign exchange to support importation of
         goods by public and private sectors.
   l To restore agricultural production capacity of the affected people ­ provision of agricultural inputs
         and training in modern farming technologies
   l Support Water and Sanitation Services ­ improvement of shallow drinking water wells, repair of
         earth dams and dip tanks and provision of boreholes.
   l To improve rural accessibility ­ improving 1,200 km of rural roads and repair/ construction of
         bridges.
   l To control spread of epidemics ­ provision of drugs for common epidemics like cholera.
   l To protect threatened animal population ­ procurement of vaccines, vaccination and treatment of
         livestock.
   l To build capacity of the relevant government institutions ­ training staff and provision of modern
         equipment to enable institutions manage future disasters effectively.
   l To assist in the reduction of poverty and improve the living standards of the poor people ­
         generation of employment through labour based road works.

REVISED OBJECTIVES

        No revisions were made to the project objectives as this was an emergency project and a scale up of
activities existing in various portfolio ministries.

ORIGINAL PROJECT COMPONENTS

   l Part A: Imports (Balance of payments support)
             i)   Retroactive financing.
             ii) Import of eligible goods by public and private sectors to support government drought
             mitigation measures.

   l Part B: Public Works
             i)   Removing critical transport bottlenecks in rural areas by improving 500 km of rural roads


                                                     - 25 -

            in first year and 700 km in the second year.
            ii) Improve or repair other civil works utilities including shallow drinking water wells, earth
            dams dip tanks and construction of improved public pit latrines.
            iii) Installation of 18 bailey bridges.

   l Part C: Agricultural Production Rehabilitation.
            i)   Distribution of diversified seed and planting materials ­ 120,000 beneficiaries in first year
            and 120,000 in second year.
            ii) Train beneficiaries in conservation farming ­ to increase crop production through modern
            farming practices.
            iii) Develop community seed/cereal banks and marketing entrepreneurship ­ for sustained crop
            production and crop marketing
            iv) Animal disease control ­ to procure animal vaccines and drugs and vaccinate animals
            against diseases in Northern, Eastern, Southern Western and North-Western Provinces.
            v) Food processing, storage and utilisation ­ to improve household food security, nutrition
            and income.

   l Part D: Project Management and Capacity building.
            i)   Strengthening capacity of Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit (DMMU),
            Meteorological Department and Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
            (MCDSS) in disaster preparedness, management and mitigation, monitoring and evaluation
            and coordination of safety nets.
            ii) Improving organisational and institutional arrangements of the Early Warning System to
            enhance its performance.

REVISED COMPONENTS

      The Components were not revised. However MCDSS was excluded from the project as funds were
already available under Public Sector Capacity Building Project for the same activity. Capacity building
was done for key staff in the early warning unit under MACO

QUALITY AT ENTRY (SATISFACTORY)
     * QAG did not review quality at entry

   l The government ICR team rates quality at entry as highly satisfactory ­ project objectives
        consistent with Government priorities and World Bank CAS, project was properly designed and
        took into account the Bank's safeguard policies with regard to environment and resettlement,
        implementation and procurement plans were agreed at appraisal, risks were recognised at appraisal
        and appropriate measures put in place. However project commenced late due to start up conditions
        and the World Bank procurement systems were not appropriate for the emergency project as they
        could not respond quickly to the project emergency issues. Furthermore, the project design did not
        consider the recurrence of drought during the project period and M & E arrangements were also
        not taken into account at the design stage.

OUTCOMES / ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIVES (HIGHLY SATISFACTORY)

   l Import of goods for drought mitigation (highly satisfactory)
            -    Provided US$ 9.6 million for retroactive financing and US$11.0 million for current
            financing.


                                                    - 26 -

          -   Completed all procurements of eligible goods for public sector at a total cost of US$10.1
          million
          -   Direct budget support avoided diversion of government resources to drought mitigation.
          -   Balance of payment support helped to increase foreign exchange reserves position of Bank
          of Zambia (from US$269 million in January 2004 to US$ 456 million in June 2005).

   l Restore Agricultural Production Capacity (satisfactory)
          -   Diversified seed and planting materials distributed to vulnerable but viable small scale
          farmers ­ 114,866 farmers end of first year and 77,152 end of second year.
          -   Beneficiaries trained in conservation farming, soil fertility improvement and soil erosion
          control
          -   Small scale farmers sensitised on the need for crop diversification and adoption of drought
          resistant crops.
          -   Seed banks developed and beneficiaries trained in marketing and entrepreneurship skills.
          -   Some beneficiaries were introduced to wetland farming to produce winter crops.

           In all respects the component performance was highly satisfactory but the partial drought of
2004/2005 farming season denied the activity chance to produce better results at the end of the project
period.

   l Water and Sanitation (highly satisfactory)
          -   Provision of clean drinking water ­ dip tanks, earth dams and shallow drinking water wells
          rehabilitated.
          -   MEWD capacity enhanced ­ through procurement of new drilling rigs and accessories,
          water bowsers and spare parts to rehabilitate 13 existing drilling rigs.

   l Improvement of rural accessibility (highly satisfactory)
          -   Rural accessibility enhanced ­ a total of 3,204 km of rural road network improved (2,494
          km under IDA funding and 710 km under NORAD grant fund).
          -   Employment was generated and household incomes were also improved.

   l Installation of Bailey Bridges (Unsatisfactory)
          Initially the project was required to install 18 bailey bridges at river crossings critical to the
          economic, social and political development of the people in the areas concerned. But the
          number was adjusted to 14 bailey bridges because government repaired the other four (4)
          bridges under a different programme. At close of the project all the bridges were not completed
          due to lack of capacity by the contractors.

   l Support Human Health (highly satisfactory)
          -   Drugs procured, delivered and utilised by the Ministry of Health in the 38 affected
          districts.

   l Protect threatened animal population (highly satisfactory)
          -   Animal vaccines were procured and delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture and
          Cooperatives (MACO).
          -   Animals were treated and vaccinated against CBPP, FMD, ECF, Anthrax and Rabies
          through NGOs. By the end of project 24,500 cattle were treated against ECF, 91,000 cattle
          vaccinated against ECF, 946,000 against CBPP, 279,000 against Anthrax, 196,000 against



                                                 - 27 -

           FMD and 43,700 dogs vaccinated against Rabies.

  l Build capacity of relevant government institutions (highly satisfactory)
           -    Staff were trained in relevant fields of specialisation to enable them handle future disasters
           effectively.
           -    Modern equipment procured for DMMU, Met. Dept and MEWD for effective
           management of future disasters.
           -    Operations Manual prepared for rapid and effective response to disasters by all the
           stakeholders in disaster management.
           -    Disaster Management Policy finalised and approved by Cabinet ­ defines the roles of
           stakeholders and gives authority to DMMU to coordinate all disaster activities in Zambia.
           -    Early Warning System streamlined for effective operation. The government institutions
           involved in the Early Warning System will continue to perform their portfolio functions
           relating to early warning and DMMU, as a coordinating Unit, will establish EWS secretariat
           under the Information Section of the Unit to collect and collate information from the
           institutions for publication and distribution to the end users on regular basis.

OUTPUT BY COMPONENTS

Part A: Imports (highly satisfactory)

   The component disbursed US$30.725 million, out of US$30.989 allocated to this component ,
   representing 99% achievement of the target. Public sector goods procured are indicated below:

  l MEWD ­ procured and delivered 3 new drilling rigs and accessories                 estimate cost US$2.34
       million , actual US$1.682 million , 4 water bowsers, estimate cost US$0.290 million, actual
       US$0.285 million, 2 utility vehicles, spares and equipment to rehabilitate 13 old drilling rigs,
       estimate US$0.700 million, actual US$1.993 million and materials, spares, fuels and lubricants to
       rehabilitate/ drill boreholes, estimate cost US$1.35 million, actual US$2.358 million           .
  l Drilling / Rehabilitation of boreholes ­ 45 new boreholes were drilled and 188 old boreholes
       rehabilitated out of a target of 250 new and 462 old boreholes. Rehabilitation/drilling works of the
       remaining boreholes are scheduled to be complete by December 31, 2006.
  l DMMU ­ procured and delivered equipment for Emergency Operation Centre (EOC), estimate
       US$0.327 million, actual US$0.653 million, , 3 trucks, US$0.307million 3 utility vehicles,
       US$94,000, 10 new tractors, estimate cost US$0.124 million, actual US$0.084 million and
       rehabilitated 26 tractors at US$0.147 million, estimate cost US$ 0.115 million
  l Meteorological Dept. ­ procured and delivered modern equipment worth US$0.927 million to
       assist in weather forecasting. Estimate at appraisal US0.700 million
  l Pontoon rehabilitation ­ procured 4 new pontoon engines, propulsion units and accessories,
       estimate at appraisal, US$0.600 million, actual US$0.601 million, for rehabilitating pontoons at
       Kazungula border crossing. The rehabilitated pontoons were commissioned by the former Vice
       President of the Republic of Zambia on February 14, 2005.

Part B: Public Works (highly satisfactory)

  l Rural accessibility improved ­ 3,204 km of rural road network was improved. IDA spent US$7.8
       million and NORAD US$ 3.2 million. Estimates at appraisal US$7.3 million for IDA to improve
       500 km in the first year and additional 700 km by end of project.             .



                                                    - 28 -

  l Other Civil Works - 4 earth dams, 19 dip tanks and 25 pit latrines rehabilitated.
  l Employment generated ­ 276,361 individuals participated in this activity through labour based
       road works and supplemented family incomes.
       Bailey bridges installation ­ not much work was done by the close of the project.

Part C: Agricultural Production Rehabilitation and Management (satisfactory)

  l Distribution of technology packs of seeds ­ 114,866 vulnerable but viable farmers benefited in the
       first year and 77,152 in the second year against a target of 120,000 in the first year and another
       120,000 in the second year. In the first year the number of beneficiaries was scaled down in some
       areas to avoid duplication of resources because farmers were already benefiting from similar
       programmes by donors. The second year was affected by inadequate funding.
  l Adoption of modern farming techniques ­ many beneficiaries adopted conservation farming and
       soil erosion control.
  l Crop yields increased ­ for example average crop yield of maize increased from 5 x 50 kg bags/
       lima to about 18 x 50 kg bags / lima.
  l Crop diversification ­ improved access to diversified seed and planting materials helped poor
       farmers to adopt drought resistant crops and other high value cash crops like cowpeas, soya beans
       groundnuts and beans.
  l Sustainable crop production ­ through seed / cereal banks many poor farmers access agricultural
       inputs to produce crops and improve food security at household level.
  l Animals were treated and vaccinated ­ Consequently animal diseases were significantly reduced in
       the targeted areas from 120,000 cases of ECF at the start of the project to 50,000, from 22,000
       cases of trypanosomiasis to 15,000, 6 outbreaks of CBPP per year to nil, from 2 outbreaks of
       FMD per year to nil, 5 outbreaks of anthrax per year to 2, and from 330 outbreaks of rabies per
       year to 100

Part D: Project Management and Capacity Building (highly satisfactory)

  l Trained staff ­ 14 officers from DMMU, 5 from Early Warning Unit in MACO were sent for short
       courses in various fields of specialisation and 2 offices from Meteorological department were sent
       on long courses in weather forecasting. All together, 21 officers were trained under this project.
       Estimate at appraisal was US$ 25,000, actual was US$ 290,000. It became necessary to train
       more staff to significantly enhance the capacity of government institutions to handle future
       disasters effectively.
  l Operations of the Early Warning System enhanced ­ key activities which involved training staff,
       procurement of equipment and consultancy study on streamlining the organisational arrangement of
       Early Warning System were completed. But DMMU is yet to establish the EWS secretariat as
       recommended in the consultancy study.
  l Government capacity to handle future disasters improved ­ through training of staff, provision of
       equipment, preparation and adoption of operations manual and drought code and approval of the
       disaster management policy.

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT

  l Disaster Management Policy ­ has given DMMU authority as an emergency wing of government
       to assume its role of coordinating and managing disasters in Zambia.
  l Establishment of Emergency Operation Centre ­ will enhance efficiency and effectiveness of
       DMMU to coordinate and manage disasters.


                                                   - 29 -

   l Operations Manual and Drought Code ­ will help government and stakeholders to respond to
        future disasters promptly and effectively.
   l Early Warning System ­ strengthened to disseminate information to the public in good time about
        the impending disasters.

MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION OR OUTCOMES

Factors outside the control of Government or implementing Agency.
   l Fluctuations of US$ against SDR
   l Lack of capacity by consultants and small scale contractors.
   l Inadequate trained contractors.
   l Partial drought in the 2004/2005 farming season.
   l High staff turn over at the World Bank


Factors generally subject to government control.
   l Provision of support services in the field
   l M&E omitted at the project design stage.


Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency control.
   l Lack of capacity to supervise activities effectively.
   l Lack of equipment to operate efficiently and effectively.


COSTS AND FINANCING
   l Programme cost at appraisal, US$ 54.14 million ­ actual, US$56.86 million.
   l IDA contribution at appraisal, US$ 54.14 million ­ actual, US$53.78 million.
   l Contribution by NORAD, actual, US$ 3.28 million.
   l Borrower contribution at appraisal, US$0.482 million ­ actual, US$0.860 million


SUSTAINABILITY (LIKELY)

Since EDRP was an emergency project which only provided funds to scale up on- going programmes in
selected government ministries, the following measures have been put in place by the respective ministries
to sustain the activities:
   l FSP ­ The Government has incorporated the FSP programme into a departmental policy under the
        Community Department and provisions made to establish 750 sub-centres countrywide and
        manned by trained MCDSS staff to mobilise and monitor government development programmes
        and poverty reduction interventions. Community seed/cereal banks have been established to assist
        the needy to access agricultural inputs and soft loans and grants will also be available to the small
        scale farmers in rural communities through MCDSS. The MCDSS in collaboration with MACO
        have been empowered to continuously teach vulnerable communities modern farming methods such
        as practising conservation farming, growing drought resistant crops, irrigation farming and wetland
        cropping. NGOs have already been engaged to facilitate the continuation of the programme using
        local resources.
   l Water and Sanitation ­ The MEWD trains communities provided with boreholes on how to use
        and maintain them. The Ministry also has workshops where the drilling rigs will be repaired by the
        Department of Water Affairs personnel and there is provision in the national budget to continue
        funding the drilling/rehabilitation of boreholes. The hydrological equipment bought under EDRP
        will enable DWA to monitor water levels and inform the nation in good time of and any impending
        floods or drought.


                                                   - 30 -

   l Public Works ­ In line with the objectives of PRSP and MDGs the government of Zambia through
        MLG&H will continue to develop and use labour based maintenance programme for feeder roads.
        Government will also continue to train small scale contractors in labour based construction
        techniques under RAMP to build capacity in rural areas. All roads rehabilitated/improved under
        labour based programme (including EDRP roads) will be placed under government regular routine
        maintenance programme using funds from NRFA. Rural communities are being sensitised on the
        ownership of the rural roads and road user committees within the communities will be trained in
        basic skills of labour based methods to develop local capacity for maintenance to ensure
        sustainability of the roads.
   l Capacity Building ­ Apart from the use of the modern equipment, trained staff and operations
        manual and drought code, the government will improve budgetary allocations to EWS, EWS
        Secretariat will hold regular consultative meetings, publish bulletins and disseminate information
        regularly to the public through DMMU.
   l Control of epidemics ­ There is budget allocation in the National Budget under the Ministry of
        Health for controlling epidemics. There is also an approved structure from National to Community
        levels with enough capacities to provide quality health care to the communities.
   l Animal disease control ­ Government has prioritised animal disease control and livestock ­
        restocking programme and MACOs polices and plans on livestock disease control are firmly
        integrated in the NAP (2004-2015) and the FNDP (2006-2011). To consolidate the EDRP
        achievements the activities have been incorporated in the DVLD's annual work plans and budgets.
        Small scale farmers are being sensitised regularly on disease prevention and utilisation of
        supplementary feed for livestock. To ensure eradication of CBPP MACO, with the support from
        Czech Republic will in 2006 embark on a test and slaughter programme of CBPP positive animals
        for a period of five years. The Ministry has also secured assistance from IFAD for a five years
        trans-boundary animal disease control programme to prevent re-introduction of diseases from the
        neighbouring countries.

TRANSITION ARRANGEMENTS TO REGULAR OPERATIONS

        EDRP was designed to scale up on-going government activities in various portfolio ministries and
was therefore expected to operate within the established government structures as the activities were
already under regular government operations.

BANK AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE.

Bank:
   l Lending (satisfactory) ­ development objectives consistent with government priorities and Bank
        CAS. Conditions for implementing the project agreed upon at design stage and project components
        covered all development objectives. Project risks and key variables identified at project appraisal
        and implementation plan was well designed and agreed upon with the borrower except the issue of
        the recurrence of drought within the life of the project was not considered. Bank's safeguards
        policies were also complied with as agreed with the borrower. But the number of participating
        individuals as performance indicator in the public works component lacked proper definition. The
        Bank procurement procedures were also not appropriate for the emergency project. The need to
        obtain a no objection from Washington was too slow for some of the activities which required
        immediate action
   l Supervision (highly satisfactory) ­ supervision was regular and focused. The task team consisted
        of skilled people, flexible and collaborated well with government counterparts. The advice given by



                                                    - 31 -

      the task team was sound and acted proactively to the project issues. Adequate follow-ups on agreed
      issues were also made.
  l Overall Bank Performance (satisfactory) ­ reasons as stated above.


Borrower:
  l Preparation (highly satisfactory) ­ wide consultations were made with government counterparts
      and stakeholders. All required information for the project was provided.
  l Government Implementation Performance (highly satisfactory) ­ government was committed to
      the project and all components covering key policies and priorities implemented. Specialist
      personnel were also engaged as agreed at appraisal.
  l Implementing Agencies (satisfactory) ­ supervision of activities in the field was weak due to lack
      of capacity.
  l Overall Borrower Performance (highly satisfactory) ­ for reasons given above.


LESSONS LEARNT

  l Labour based approach to public works ­ it is appropriate for maintenance of rural/village
      roads. But it only works well when cash is readily available to pay workers immediately they
      complete a given task. Future projects might require changes to the World Bank disbursement
      procedures to facilitate quick payment of workers as and when wages are due. Delays in paying
      wages tend to frustrate workers and make the programme unpopular.
  l Community seed/cereal banks could develop sustainable agricultural production ­ it ensures
      availability of inputs and provides opportunity to the poorest people of the communities to produce
      their own food. If properly managed the seed banks could give equal opportunity to every able
      boded person to produce his/her own food and reduce dependency on government hand- outs.
  l There is agricultural potential in wetland areas ­ the few wetland areas cultivated under this
      project produced good crops. Small scale farmers were able to yield surplus crops for sale. If
      encouraged it could improve food security and supplement family incomes at critical periods i.e.
      November to February when families face serious food shortages.
  l The independence of the "Project Implementation Unit" from the civil service bureaucratic
      process, which was built in the designing of the project, cut down on a lot of red tape
      characterising civil service processes. This saved a lot of time and was largely responsible for the
      satisfactory performance of the project.
  l The existing Bank procedures of obtaining no objections from Washington was too slow for
      emergency activities and programmes which in most cases require immediate decisions and actions.
      For future emergency programmes we propose that the local World Bank office could be given
      authority to provide no objections to most of the procurements without reference to Washington.




                                                 - 32 -

- 33 -

