                                     Documentof
                                  TheWorld Bank




                                                           ReportNo. 39847




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                REPUBLICOF ZAMBIA

                   EMERGENCYDROUGHTRECOVERYPROJECT
                   (CREDITNO.3719-ZA and GRANTNO. HO12-ZA)


                                     May 24,2007




Sector Thematicand GlobalEvaluationDivision
IndependentEvaluation Group

 CurrencyUnit=ZambianKwacha

 CurrencyEquivalents (annual averages)

 2002    US$l.OO          MZK4426
 2003    US$l.OO          -4790
 2004    US$l.OO          MZK4827
 2005    US$l.OO          MZK4724
 2006    US$l.OO          MZK3536


'AbbreviationsandAcronyms

 ADRA             Adventist Development andrelief Agency
 BOZ              BankofZambia
 CLUSA            Cooperative League of USA
 DHS              Demographic andHealthy Survey
 DMMU             Disaster Management andMitigation Unit
 FA0              FoodandAgriculture Organization
 FEWSNET          Famine EarlyWarning SystemNetwork
 FNDP             FifthNationalDevelopmentPlan
 FRA              FoodReserve Agency
 FSP              FoodSecurity Pack
 IDA              International Development Association
 M A C 0          Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
 MLGH             MinistryofLocalGovernment andHousing
 NAP              National AgriculturalPolicy
 NORAD            Norwegian Agency for Development
 PAM              Programme AgainstMalnutrition
 PRGF             Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility
 NGO              Non-Government Organization
 OVP              Office o f the Vice President
 PUSH             Programme UrbanSelfHelp
 PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 SADC             Southern AfXca Development Corporation
 UNDP             UnitedNationsDevelopment Program
 UNICEF           UnitedNations Children's Fund
 USAID            United States Agency for International Development
 VAM              Vulnerability AssessmentandMonitoring
 WFP              World FoodProgramme
 ZAMSIF           ZambiaSocial InvestmentFund
 ZVAC             Zambia Vulnerability AssessmentCommittee

 FiscalYear

 Government       January-December


   Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 : Mr.VinodThomas
   Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)      : Mr.AjayChhibber
   Manager, Sector, Thematic andGlobal Evaluation           : Mr.AlainBarbu
   Task Manager                                             : Mr.PetrosAklilu

                                                               i

I                                                          ~~~~         ~




  IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.                 1
 About this Report
        The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programsand activities of the World Bink for two purposes:
 first, to ensurethe integrity of the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
 expected results, and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough the
 disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank'slendingoperationsthroughfieldwork. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those
 that are innovative, large,or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
 which Executive Directorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
 importantlessons.
        To preparea Project Performance Assessment Report(PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine project files and other
 documents,interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowingcountry to discussthe operationwith the government,
 and other in-countrystakeholders, and interviewBankstaff and other donoragency staff bothat headquarters and
 in localoffices as appropriate.
        Each PPAR is subject to internalIEGWBpeer review, Panel review, and management approval.Once cleared
 internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
 relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
 the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has been sent to
 the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

 About the IEGWBRating System
        IEGWB's use of multiple evaluationmethods offers both rigorand a necessary levelof flexibilityto adapt to
 lending instrument,projectdesign, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto
 arriveat their project ratings. Following is the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion
 (additionalinformationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: httD://worldbank.ora/ieg).
        Outcome: The extent to whichthe operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expected to be
 _achieved,efficiently.The ratinghas threedimensions: relevance,efficacy,and efficiency.Relevanceincludes
 relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectivesis the extent to whichthe project's
 objectivesare consistent with the country's current developmentprioritiesand with current Bank country and
 sectoralassistancestrategies and corporategoals (expressedin PovertyReductionStrategyPapers,Country
 AssistanceStrategies, Sector Strategy Papers,OperationalPolicies).Relevanceof design is the extentto which
 the project'sdesign is consistent with the stated objectives. EfficacyIS the extent to which the project's objectives
 were achieved,or are expected to be achieved,taking into account their relativeimportance.Efficiencyis the
 extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve,a returnhigher than the opportunitycost of capital
 and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiencydimensiongenerallyis not appliedto adjustment
 operations.Possibleratingsfor Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, HighlyUnsatisfactory.
        Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
 outcomes)will not be maintained (or realized).Possibleratingsfor Risk to Development Outcome: High
 Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
        Bank Performance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensuredquality at entry of the
 operationand supported effective implementationthroughappropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequate
 transitionarrangementsfor regular operation of supportedactivitiesafter loanlcreditclosing,towardthe
 achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: qualityat entry and quality of supervision.
 Possibleratingsfor Bank Perfotmance: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe government and implementing
 agency or agencies) ensuredqualityof preparationand implementation,and complied with covenantsand
 agreements, toward the achievement of developmentoutcomes.The rating has two dimensions: government
 performance and implementingagency(ies) performance.Possibleratingsfor BorrowerPerformance: Highly
 Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                               iii


Contents

PRINCIPAL RAT1NGS          ...................................................................................................              V

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                .........................................................................................              V

PREFACE ....................................................................................................................                vi1

SUMMARY  ...................................................................................................................                IX

1.   INTRODUCTIONAND BACKGROUND                                         .............................................................        1

     Poverty Reduction-A Challenge                     ....................................................................................   1
     Poverty Reduction Strategy              .............................................................................................    2
     The Agriculture Sector           .....................................................................................................   2
     The 2001/2002 Food Crisis             ...............................................................................................    5


2.   PROJECTOBJECTIVESAND DESIGN                                        .............................................................         6

     Retroactive Financing           ......................................................................................................   7

3.   IMPLEMENTATION                .............................................................................................

4.   OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES                           ...........................................................................             11

5.   RATINGS      ..........................................................................................................                15

6.   LESSONS       .........................................................................................................                21

REFERENCES     .............................................................................................................                23

ANNEX A.BASIC       DATA SHEET              .................................................................................               25

ANNEX B: PEOPLEAND AGENCIES MET                                  .................................................................          27


                                                      V




Outcome                           Satisfactory              Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory
Institutional                        Modest                   Modest                          NR
Development
Impact**
Risk to Development                                                                        Significant
Outcome
Sustainability***                     Likely                   Likely                         NR
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory               Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                          Satisfactory               Satisfactory           ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance


                                                                 P
 The Implementation Completion Report(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department.The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWBproductthat seeksto independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**AS of July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopment Impactis assessedas part of the Outcome rating.
***Asof July 1,2006,Sustainability has been replacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are
different,the ratings are not directly comparable.




Project               Task Manager/Leader        '      Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                        Sector Director
Appraisal                     T. Dejene                    K. Brooks                       Y. Ansu
Supervision               A. Mwanakasale                   R. Scobey                     H. Shaffer
Completion                A. Mwanakasale                   R. Scobey                     H. Shaffer



          ..


                                                vii


Preface

This i s a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Zambia Emergency
Drought RecoveryProject(Credit No. 37190ZA, GrantNo. H012ZA), whichwas approved
on November 19,2002, andbecame effective on February 28,2003. A credit of SDR 22.8
million (US$30 million equivalent) and a Grant o f SDR 15.2 million (US$20 million
equivalent) were approved to support Zambia's effort to overcome the effects o f the
2001/2002 natural disaster causedby floods and drought. The credit and grant were closed on
June 30, 2005 after a six-month extension with a cumulative disbursement ofUS $53.6
million and a total project cost o fUS$57.03 million.

Zambia had also receiveda grant from the NorwegianAgency for Development (NORAD)
Trust Fundthrough IDA amountingto US$3.4 millionto supplement IDA'Sresources. The
NORADGrant was declared effective on September 6,2004 and closed on June 30, 2005
after disbursingUS$2.9 million.

The PPARfindings are basedon an IEGmissionthat visitedZambia inOctober 2006.
Additional informationcame from an in-depthreview o fZambia's agriculture sector to
discern the structural causes o f food crises beyond the recurrent natural crises; project files,
including the ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR); review o f sector studies, including
IEG's CountryAssistance Evaluation; andIEG'S evaluation o fBank assistance for natural
disasters. Interviews were also heldwith officials o fthe Government o f Zambia including the
ImplementingAgency-the       Disaster Management and MitigationUnit (DMMU)inthe
Office ofthe Vice President, and other projectimplementingandrelevant agencies; Zambia's
Development Partners including UN,multilateral, bilateral andNGOs; and the Bank's
Regional Staff. The PPARmissionvisitedthe Southern Province (one o fthe drought
affectedprovinces) andmet with local government officials andcommunity representatives
who participatedinthe project.

In.accordance with standard IEGprocedures, a copy o f the draft PPAR was sent to the
Borrower for their review and comments before it was finalized. The Borrower didnot have
any comments.


                                                      ix

Summary

In May 2002, the Government ofZambia (GOZ)declared the food crisis as anational disaster and
issued an international appeal for assistance. An IDA Credit/Grant o fUS$50 millionequivalent was
approved on November 19,2002. The Project's development objectives were to: (i)       alleviate the
impact o fthe drought; and (ii)  strengthen the Borrower's capacity to develop, implement andmanage
medium and longterm drought mitigationmeasures.

The two-year Project was based on the "Government Drought Management andMitigation Plan:
Policy, Strategy and Interventions." Itwas designed to provide highpriority agriculturalinputs and
other imports with a quick disbursingbalance ofpayments support; generate income for drought
affected populations while creating and rehabilitating community assets; assist a targeted agricultural
rehabilitationprogram; and support the Government's effort with technical assistanceto improve
drought mitigation and emergency response.

Theproject was launchedwith initial start-updelays due to lengthyprocedures for the selection o f
consultants and contractors and complex implementation arrangements withmultiple layers.
Implementationaccelerated toward the end o fthe first year andthe projectwas largely completed
havingmet most o fthe physicaltargets. A six-month extension o fthe Credit Closing Date was
approved to complete project works.
IEGrates the project's overall outcome as moderately satisfactory. The project objectives and
design aimed at addressing the immediate effects o fthe drought and includedmeasures to respondto
long-term sectoral issues. These measuresare relevant to the Bank's assistanceandthe
Government's development strategies. However, the Assessment notes weaknesses inthe relevance
o f the design to alleviate the impact o f the drought-a key project objective. Moreover, the
cumbersome implementation arrangement for the SafetyNet and Agricultural components resultedin
substantial delays inproject start-up, and wage payments to project participants under the Safety Net
public works. For an emergency operation, timely start-up andexecution i s central to ease the stress
onhouseholds suffering from income losses.

The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactoryonboth quality at entry and
supervision.

The Borrower's performance is satisfactory for quality at entry. The GOZ hadpresented a
comprehensive short andmedium-term strategy for drought recoverywhich formed the basis for the
design o fthe project. However, the Borrower's multiple layer of implementing agencies experienced
delays inidentifying subprojects and inpayingcontractors, and fell short o fcompleting the agreed
physical targets even with a six-month extension ofthe Credit Closingdate. The overallBorrower
performance is therefore rated moderately satisfactory.

The Risksto Development Outcomes are significant. Zambianrural households remainvulnerable
to drought and flood episodes andwill be exposed to acute food insecurity. The project's short-term
interventions-income      generating public works and the agriculturalrehabilitationprograminthe
project districts maynot receive continued support. However, the GOZ is embarkingon a long-term
agricultural and food security program under the FifthNational Development Planwhich has the
potentialto promotebothproductivityenhancing technologies and investments.

IEGratesthe Monitoring andEvaluationSystem as modest for design, implementationand
utilization. The project has financed the preparationo fM&E System and InformationManagement

                                                    X
System. The Disaster Management andMitigationUnit(DMMU)expects to adopt these systems to
help it expedite its nation-wide mandate for drought management andmitigation.

Inaddition, Zambia hasafunctioningVulnerability Assessment Committeethat monitorsincidence
o fhousehold food insecurity. Zambia's timely responseto the 2005 drought and the current flood
damages attests to the effectiveness of the Government's network of disaster management and
mitigation.

The key lessons from the project are:

        Bankassistanceshouldpay particularattentionto food securityissuesincountrieswith
        chronicfood insecurityand vulnerabilityto naturaldisasters. Zambia isvulnerableto
        recurrent natural disastersthat exacerbatehouseholdfood insecurity and trigger
        macroeconomic imbalances. To achieve national andhouseholdfood security, Zambia needs
        to invest heavily inproductivity-enhancingtechnologies, irrigationinfrastructure andrural
        roads, and allow a levelplaying field for bothpublic andprivate sector service providers.
        Zambia has the potential not only to feed itselfbut also to become a granary for its eight
        neighboringcountries. Bank Country Assistance Strategies should do more to recognize
        natural disasters as risks to development outcomes.

        To address foodinsecurity a regionalapproachwhich promotesregionaltrade is
        needed. The Southern African statesbelongto SouthernAfrica DevelopmentCooperation
        (SADC) and share many common development challenges-food            insecurity, HNAND
        AIDS; weak governance; andrecurrent natural disasters. Theporous borders especially o f
        landlockedcountries likeMalawi, Zambia andZimbabwe, allow their populationsto benefit
        from informalcross-border trade especially infood. The New Partnership for Africa's
        Development WEPAD)-supported         framework for promoting food security, one o f the Pillars
        o f the Comprehensive Africa Agricultural Development Program, is a suitable forum to
        pursuesuch aregionalapproach to food security.

        It is essentialto the success of a publicworks projectto establisha priority objective
        betweenquick incomegeneration, and asset creation and/or rehabilitationwith an
        acceptabletechnicalstandard. Appropriatetimingof public works is also imperativeto
        avert conflictinglabordemandfor agriculture.Public works oftenhave the dual objective
        o fcreating, albeit temporary, income-generating employment andthe creation and/or
        rehabilitationo f community assets. It i s imperative to determine the relative priority assigned
        to the objective of income generation under an emergency situation. When cash i s urgently
        neededto compensate for losses, rehabilitating or creating community assets that meet
        nationaltechnical standards may becompromised. Oftenthere are trade-offs which shouldbe
        acknowledged at the time o f designingapublic works-based recovery project. Public works
        should also be timed appropriately to avoidpossiblediversion of family labor from family
        farm.

        Carefulselectionofinstitutionalarrangementsto implementemergencyoperations
        would allow a quickprojectstart-up and minimizeimplementationrisks. Inthis case,
        the multiplecoordinationandimplementationcommittees established at national, provincial
        anddistrict levels appear to have slowed downtimelyproject implementation. A key lesson

                                           xi


emerging from the Zambian experience i s that when there are well performingongoing
projects, the emergency operation should be designed with a view to providing additional
resources to such operations to target drought affected districts.




                                                                   Vinod Thomas
                                                                   Director-General
                                                                      Evaluation


                                                    1


  1. Introduction and Background
  1.1    Zambia i s a landlocked country insub-Sahara Africa covering about 750 thousand
 square kilometers with a population o f about 10.5 millionpeople. At independence in 1964,
 thepopulationof Zambiawas less than 4 million. Zambia i s one o fthe most sparsely
 populated countries insub-Saharan Africa with about 14peopleper square kilometer. Annual
 population growth rate has declined to 2.2 percent during 1990-2005 compared to 3.3 percent
 duringtheprecedingtwo decades. An estimated 37 percent o fthe populationis urban,
 makingit one ofthe mosthighlyurbanizedcountries inSub-SaharaAfrica. Endowedwith
 abundant naturalresources, 58 percent o f the total land area is arable. However, only 14
 percent o f its arable landi s annually cultivated. Zambia i s also the source o f 40 percent o f
 the water resources of the Southern Africa Development Cooperation (SADC) region.
 Despitethe abundance o fwater and landresources, only 100,000 ha are currently irrigated.
 Land tenure is dominated by customaryholdings assigned to individual farm households
 cultivating an average o f 1.5 ha. Zambia i s surrounded by eight countries, offering to trade
 opportunities and labor mobility.

  1.2    Zambia's one-party and one-man rule ended in 1991when the Movement for multi-
 party Democracywon the general election markingthe birth o fmulti-party political system.
 InSeptember2006, Zambiahelditsfourthnation-wideelectionandtheincumbentpartywon
-the majorityvote and-PresidentMwanwasawas inaugurated for a second and last term. The
 wide-ranging economic reformprogram and improvedeconomic management which
 resumed in 1999 has shown promising signs o f economic recovery. InAugust 2005, Zambia
 reachedthe Highly IndebtedPoor Country (HIPC) CompletionPoint and received substantial
 debt relief.

 Poverty Reduction-A Challenge

 1.3     At independence, Zambia hadan estimatedper capita income o fUS$750. In2005
 current prices, the GNIper capitawas US$490. Zambia's heavy dependence on copper
 export earnings which accounted for 95 o ftotal foreign exchange receipts started to decline
-inthe mid-1970s with falling copper prices. Duringthis period, Zambia experienced
 -persistentmacro;eeonom-ic instability, policy and institutional failures, recurrent natural
 disasters andcontinued heavy relianceon a single commodity--copper.          These trends
 resulted inslow economic growth, exacerbating the highincidenceo fpoverty. The latest
 UNDP HumanDevelopmentIndexranks Zambia 163 out o f 177 countries. According to the
 2004 LivingConditions Monitoring Survey, an estimated 68 percent o fthe populationfall
 below the poverty line and 53 percent are ultra poor. Despite Zambia's improved economic
 performance since 2002, the overallpoverty incidence is 68 percent, the same level as in
 1991.'

 1.4     Poverty is predominantly a ruralphenomenon. The profile o fthe poor shows the rural
 space harboring 78 percent o fthe poor, andthe Western Province has the highest incidence
 with 89 percent ofits inhabitants falling below the poverty line. The Eastern, Northern and


 1. Zambia Country Assistance Strategy, WorldBank, 1997.

                                                    2


   SouthernProvinces account for 30 percent ofthe poor inZambia. These three Provinces also
   experiencerecurrent droughts and floods. Among ruralhouseholds, small farm operators,
   female headedhouseholds, anddwellers inremote and inaccessible areas comprise the
   majorityo f the poor inrural Zambia. Table 1presents selected indicators.

   Table 1. Selected Indicators

                                               1990           2005
   Pop. Growth rate                            3.3 (1970-'90) 2.2 (1990-'05)
   Poverty Incidence                           73 (1998)      68
   Life Expectancy      .                      47             38
   MaternalMortality (per 0.1 mill live births)               730

   U-5 mortality(per 1000live births           180            182
   InfantMortality (per 1000 live births)      101            102
   Source:UNICEF:Zambia Statistics,2006.

   1.5    Despite persistentpoverty, the highincidence of HW AND AIDS andpoor
   malnutrition- relatedindicators, Zambia has scoredcommendableresults inprimary school
   enrollments andis likely to achievethis MillenniumDevelopment Goal. However, a key
  .concern is that Zambia needs to improve the quality ofits education outcomes to reap the
   benefit ofnear universal enrollment.

   PovertyReductionStrategy

   1.6    The overall objective ofZambia's first Poverty ReductionProgram (PRP) which was
   launchedin2002 is to: promote abroad-basedeconomic growth to reduce poverty through a
   combination of growth-promoting investments inkey economic sectors. The PRP's primary
   focus was to improve access to, andquality of, social services, promote agriculture andother

`  rural activities andsupportinginfiastructure, improve governance, andcombat HNAND
   AIDS. The PRPfurther outlines the povertyreduction strategyorthe ruralsector: (i)
   improve rural infrastructure particularly ruralroads to reduceproduction costs; (ii)  promote
'  employment opportunities through large-scaleagriculture, ago-processing andout grower
   schemes; (iii) support non-farm rural small-scaleenterprises; (iv) enhance food security
   among smallholder agriculture; and (v) social interventions ineducation, health, sanitation.
   The Agriculture Commercialization Program (ACP) was also formulated as the agricultural
.- component ofthe PRPto guidethe sector's vision as set out inthe National Agricultural
   Policy (NAP--2004-2001 5). While the P W hadidentifiedthe strategies andareas for
   intervention, the requiredresourcesto implement the plannedinvestment program
   particularly inthe agriculture sector fell significantly short o fplanned allocations.

   `TheAgriculture Sector            .


   1.7    Agriculture is the mainstay ofthe rural economy. The sector includingagro-
   processingcontributes about 40 percent ofthe GrossDomestic Product (GDP), 67 percent o f
   the total employment, supplies the bulk ofraw materials which account for over 80 percent

                                                  3


  o f the manufacturing sector's value added, and contributes more than 12percent o fthe
  foreign exchange earnings. The Zambian agriculture sector i s dualistic with the vast majority
  o fproducers beingsmallholders growing mainly cereals and tubers with an average
  customary holding o f about 1.5 hectares. Smallholders are predominantly subsistence and
  depending on the performance o fmaizeproduction, about 50 percent o fproductionis
  marketable surplus. Incontrast, the large commercial estates grow maize andindustrial crops
  on leased land.

  1.8     Agriculture inZambia is vulnerable to climatic variability causedby floods and dry
  spells posingrisks to macro-economic stability. The GOZ hasplaced agriculture as one o f
  the keypriority sectors for economic growth, development andpoverty reduction. The vision
  for the Government is thus to develop an efficient and competitive agricultural sector that
  assures food security at bothhousehold andnational levels and also maximizes the
  contribution o fthe sector to GDP.

  Performance of the Economy and the Agriculture Sector

  1.9      The first decade following independence in 1964, Zambia enjoyedsubstantial
  revenues from mineral export earnings and was sheltered from external shocks. This was
  short lived. Macroeconomic instability, incomplete policy implementation, andinefficient
  state-owned enterprises beganto be a drag on the economy. This was compounded by a
  collapsein copper prices; oi+price-shocks, and a continuing contractionof food production.
 -Since the mid 199Os, the government had initiated a series o fmarket-orientated reforms and
  sought to improvemacroecunomic management. Since 2001,Zambia has attained positive
  per capita income growth. -Thesedevelopments are supported and drivenby favorable trends
  incommodityprices, especially for copper. However, faster progress inreducingpoverty
  will requireanacceleration ofgrowth from its current 4-5 percent to 8 percent. InApril 2005,
  Zambia became the 17thcountry to reachthe HIPC completion point.

  1.10    Agricultural growth during2001-2002 failed to keep up with the population growth
  rate. In2002, agriculture's poor performance was Wher aggravatedby drought. Between
  2001-2005, food aid providedthe cushion for the food gap. Despite the highpotentialfor
..agricultural development, Zambia lacks coherent sector policies, and suffers from
  institutional failures to delivertechnology services andcritical farm inputs, and inadequate
- investment inirrigated agriculture andrural infrastructure. Zambia has the potential to
  emerge as abread basket for the SADAC food deficit countries. This will require a major
  shift by Zambia's agriculturalpolicy makers from a strategy with the fertilizer subsidy
  program as a driver o f food security to a comprehensive development agenda. Followingthe
  recent election, the Government fulfilledits campaignpromise byraising the fertilizer
  subsidy from 50 to 60 percent, further starvingthe muchneededinvestments inimproving
  agricultural services and irrigation. Table 2 presents selected economic and sectoral
  indicators.

                                                     4


 Table 2. GDP and Agriculture Sector Performance Indicators

  Indicators
                          2001   2002     2003     2004    2005
  Real GDP Growth         2.4     3.3     5.1      5.4     5.2
 (%I
 Ag. GDPGrowth (%)         1.0    -1.7     5.1     4.2     2.8
 Ag.ShareofGDP            22      22      23       21       19
  (%I
  FoodAid (000WIT)         45     69       152     108      128


  GovernmentAgriculturalDevelopmentStrategy

  1.11    The National Agricultural Policy (2004-2015) provides the overall vision, policy and
  strategic framework for the development of agriculture. The NAP'Svision for the sector is to
  develop a competitive, efficient and sustainableagriculture sector which assures food
  security and income.2This vision statementcontains laudable conceptswhich entail trade
  liberalization, improvementsinthe delivery o f agricultural technology services and
  functioning input and output markets, and careful managementofnatural resources witha
  view to reducing poverty andattaining food security. Investinginlong-term productivity-
  enhancingmeasuresparticularly for small holder agriculture will require a longterm
  consistentpolicy, andinstitutional andresource commitment. The current GOZ focus is on
  the provision of subsidizedfertilizer which absorbednearly 60 percent o f the agriculture
  budget in2006 at the expense o fhighpriority long-term investments. Other complementary
  investm'ents inrural infrastructure, the development ofnon-farm ruralincome, access to rural
  financial services are equally critical to the development of the agriculture sector andpoverty
  reduction.

  1.12    InNovember2006, the GOZ approved theFifthNational Development Plan-(2006-
  2010) (FNDP) which will representZambia's SecondPovertyReduction Program. The

% FNDP containsthe keyelements o fthe NAPwith detailed plannedresource allocation.
  Fertilizer subsidyis scheduledto bephasedout by 2009 while resourcesfor irrigation
 `development, agricultural researchand extension would increase substantially duringthe
. planperiod. The overall budget allocation for agriculture including irrigationdevelopment i s
  expectedto reach 8 percento ftotal GOZ budget expenditure equivalent to 2 percent of GDP
  by2010. While these are ambitious targets, to reducepoverty andattainnational food
-.security, it is imperativefor Zambia to adhereto itsplanningcommitments.

. 1.13    World Bank assistanceinthe agricultural sector was nearly absentbetween 2001 and
-2006. In2001, the Agricultural Sector InvestmentProgram (ASP) closedwith
  unsatisfactory outcomes. Preparation o f a follow-up Agricultural Development Project
* (ADP) wasinitiatedin2002 andwas approved inApril 2006. The ADP is aimed at
  promotingthe commercialization of smallholder agriculture particularly export crops.
  However, the majority ofZambian smallholders produce the principal food security crop,


                      ~     ~~




  2. Ministryo fAgricultureand Cooperatives: National Agricultural Policy: 2004-2015, November2004.

                                                  5


  maize. Efforts to reduce poverty and attainfood security require investing also inimproving
  productivity inmaize and other food crops-an      area that hasbeenoverlooked inthe past.

  The 2001/2002 FoodCrisis

  1.14 Duringthe 2001/02 drought (which was preceded by floods inselectedregions at
  early stages o fthe crop seasonfollowed by dry spells), Zambia faced a maize shortage to the
  tune o f 0.6 milliontons to meet the annual domestic consumptionrequirement of 1.2 million
  tons. An estimated 2.9 millionpeople in38 Districts out o f 72 Districts inZambia were
  severely affected by food shortages. Notwithstandingthe poor harvest in2001/02, poor
  management of maize imports had further exacerbated the food crisis. To close the estimated
  food gap, in2001GOZhad earlier authorized imports o f 200,000 tons o fmaize through
  private sector suppliers to be sold at subsidized prices to millers. Due to the scarcity o f
  foreign exchange reserves, the deliveries were delayed and only about 65 percent o fthe
  plannedmaize import arrivedinMay 2002 whenprices started arisingtrendandpeaked in
  December 2002. Since the GOZhad granted a subsidy to selected importers andmillers,
  other importerswere discouraged from importingwhich put supply pressure on the market.
  InAugust 2002, thepeak ofthe foodcrisis, the GOZ's refusalto accept genetically modified
  maize as food aid further compounded the food shortages. Maize prices sharply increased
  duringSeptember-December 2002 andfollowing the arrival o ffood aid, andprivate and
  public sector imports, prices started to decline inFebruary 2003. Figure 1presents monthly
  prices o fmaize for the period 2001-2003.

  Figure 1.Maize MonthlyRetailPrices


               25,000
             Q
             Y 20,000
               15,000
              810,000
             Y   5,000
             N      -


                                          -e2002    -I-   2003 +I+2001


          Source: Based on data from Central Statistics Office, Government o f Zambia.
- 1.15    In2002103agriculturalproductionreboundedandin2003104maizeproduction
  remained at nearly the same level as inthe previous season. However, in2004/05 another
  milddry spell struck Zambia andresultedinamaize shortfallof0.4 milliontons butthe
  crisis was contained with timely food aiddeliveries and private sector imports. In2005/06
  Zambia's agriculture scored a sharp 64 percent increase inmaize productionresultingina

                                                        6


surplusof 0.4 milliontons which became a major marketingchallenge particularly for small
farmers.

1.16   Figure2presentsZambia's annualmaizeproduction andrainfall. Since 1990/91,
compared to the 15 year average maize production, the average annual variation is negative
10percent, largely accountedby variation inyield3. The average annual rainfallvariation for
the same period is negative 3 percent, much lower than the maizeproductionvariation
suggesting the presence o f other production constraints. Other key factors such as support
services, timeliness andaffordability o fproductivity-enhancinginputs are the critical
determinants of maize yields. Since 2002/03, an estimated 120,000 farmers or 15 per cent of
the total smallholders inZambia annuallybenefited from GOZ's Food Security Pack (FSP)
distributing free fertilizer and seeds, and Fertilizer Support Programme with a 50 percent
subsidy on fertilizer and seeds.

Figure2. Maize Productionand Rainfall



       sE
       L
       m

          1800

       f3 1200
       E 1400
       E 1600

          1000
            800
            600
       o
       E 200o
            400
       O

       .I\




                                                  ~ z =YearE i G q
                 _ . .

Source: Based on data from-theMinistryo fAgriculture andCooperatives, Government o f
Zambia.


2.       Project Objectives and Design

2.1     The MOP andthe D C A share the following Project Development Objectiveswhich
articulate clearly the objectives o f an emergency operation: (i) the impact ofthe
                                                                           alleviate
drought; (ii) strengthen the Borrower's capacityto develop, implementandmanage medium
and long-term drought mitigationmeasures. However, the MOP adds an ambitious objective:
to assist the GOZ inmaintainingkey commitments to economic andinvestmentpriorities


3. Dueto production shortfalls, for eight out ofthe last 15 years, Zambia hadto rely on importsand food aid to
meet domestic requirements,

                                                    7


   laid out inthe PRP. While desirable, this objective i s neither feasible nor appropriate inthe
   context o f a two-year emergency assistance. Moreover, the detailed project design did not
   make any provision how the project would achieve this objective.

   Project Components

   2.2     Quick-disbursing assistance toflnance imports (US$35.0million, or 70percent of
   totalproject cost). The positive list o f goods importedbyprivate andpublic sectors included:
   (i)machinery, well rigs, and equipment for the meteorology department andDMMU's
   Emergency Operations Center; (ii)    agriculturalinputs andpetroleumproducts; (iii)
   constructionmaterials; (iv) transport vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles; (v) livestock and animal
   healthproducts andveterinary supplies and equipment; and(vi) school and medical supplies
   and equipment.

   2.3    Social safety net (public works) (US$7.0 million, or llpercent of totalproject cost).
   This component includeda conditionalcashtransfer for vulnerable groups with a view to
   improvingaccess to villages by rehabilitatingexisting feeder roads. The roadworks are
   similar to the programunder the RoadRehabilitation andMaintenanceProject (RRMP).The
   Public Works component received co-financing worth US$3.38 million from the Norwegian
   Agency for International Development (NORAD) under a Trust Fundexecuted bythe
   Borrower.

   2.4    Agricultural rehabilitation (US$7.0 million, or 14percent of totalproject cost). This
   component consisted o f (i) an agricultural inputpackage (FSP) delivered to vulnerable but
  -viable farmers, inexchange for repaying 10percent o ftheir produce toward a community
   owned grainbank, and; (ii)  provision o f vaccines to the animal disease control program.

   2.5    Improving early warning system and disaster management and mitigation capacity
   (US$l.O million, or 2percent of totalproject cost). This component aimed at improvingthe
   early warningsystem andenhancing government capacity to manage and mitigate disasters
   throughtechnical assistance, equipment, training, and studies.

   2.6     The project also plannedto mobilize additionalresources from ongoing IDA-assisted
 : operations. Toward this end, it identifieda total o fUS$21 millionwhich would be usedto
   finance emergency related activities inthe 38 drought affecteddistricts.

   Retroactive Financing

   2.7     Inordertojumpstarttheproject, US$10millionwasagreedforretroactivefinancing
   to reimburse eligible imports completed four monthsprior to Credit and Grant signing.



.- 3.      Implementation

   3.1     InMay2002, theGOZdeclaredthefoodcrisisasanationaldisaster andissuedan
   internationalappeal for assistance. InAugust 2002, the GOZ submitteda request to the Bank
   to assist inalleviatingthe impact o fthe food crisis. Inresponse to the Bank's positive

                                               a

reaction, inOctober 2002, the GOMpresented a "Government Drought Management and
MitigationPlan: Policy, Strategy and Interventions". A Task Team was quickly formed and a
Preparation cumAppraisal Missionwas launched to prepare a hybridoperation. The US$50
millionequivalent CrediuGrant was subsequently approvedonNovember 19,2002. The
Credit was signedon December 19,2002 and declared effective on February 28,2003.

3.2     The DMMU,as the leadproject coordinating agency, needed to establish in-house
capacity to manage the project. Such capacity would also serve its long-term requirements in
managing drought mitigation andrecovery operations. As a result, Credit effectiveness was
subject to a number of standard requirements for establishing a project coordinating unit,
systems andprocedures. These conditions were fulfilled on February 28,2003, three months
after Board approval. Dueto lack o f experience with Bank procedures inDMMU,
disbursement ofUS$ 10 millionunder the Retroactive Financingwas not madeuntilOctober
2003.

3.3     The implementationarrangement for the project was cumbersome which involved
several ministries, agencies, local government administrations andNGOs. Overseeing the
project implementationwas the Joint Steering Committee (JSC), chairedby the Permanent
Secretary inthe Office o f the Vice President. The DMMUserved as the Secretariat. The
choice o fthe DMMUto coordinate the implementation o f the project was appropriate since it
was established as the Government's focal point for disaster management. However, the
long-term solutions to address the recurrent food shortages inZambia require long term
commitments fiom sectoral ministries. DMMUi s emerging as a champion for disaster
mitigation andmanagement and draws the attention o f sectoral ministries to Zambia's
vulnerability to naturaldisaster risks.

3.4     The Bank o fZambia (BOZ) and the private sector importers' commercialbanks
playeda leadingrole infacilitating access to foreign exchange under the Quick Disbursing
Component. Private sector importers purchased foreign exchange from the BOZ absorbing
58 percent o fthe credit and grant proceeds. Public sector imports were limited to drillingrigs
andanimalvaccines.       The Quick Disbursing component was essentially a Balance o f
Payment Support based on a positive list o fimports andthe performance indicator was only
the utilization ofthe allocated amount. Under the project, an arrangement was not made on
the use o fthe local currencyproceeds-fromthe sale o f foreign exchange to private sector
importers. The agreeddisbursement procedure was also simple. Despitebeing a quick
disbursing facility, the pace o fdisbursement was slow. Inthe positive list, three new
groundwater drillingrigs andspare parts for 13 existing rigs were procuredto reinforce the
capacity o f the Department o f Water Affairs. The procurement process was lengthy, required
re-bidding, andtook more thanone year. The selection o f villages was based on community
surveys, establishment o fwater and sanitation committees andtraining of keymembers in
pumpoperation andminor maintenance, andcommunity contributionsinkind(serving
lunches to contractors installing.the pumpandcrushingstones). Political interference inthe
selection ofvillages andpump sites was reportedduring implementation.

3.5     A Program Steering Committee(NSC), chairedbythe DMMUwas established to
implement the Safety Net Component. Dueto the predominance o froadworks under the
project, the NationalRoads Board (NRB)was responsible for implementing the public works

                                                   9


   through the Ministryo f Local Government andHousing, and District`Councils. It also served
   as the Secretariat. Six Consultants and one NGO (Program for Urban Self-Help) were
   recruitedthrough a competitivebiddingprocess to represent the NRBinthe Districts and
   guidethe implementation ofthepublic works. Consultants andthe selectedNGOs were
   assigned to different districts to work with the District Governments to mobilize workers at
   the community level and to ensure that the roadworks met the NRB technical standards.

   3.6     Inpreparingthe communitybasedworks, the projecthadestablished aset ofproject
   selection criteria, e.g.(i) labor cost would constitute a minimumo f 60 percent o fthe total
   subproject; (ii) women would comprise 60 percent o fthe work force; and (iii) participants
                                                                                     the
   would bepaid ZK5000per day working for a maximum o f 4 hours per day. The consultants
   andtheNGOpaidcareful attentionto these andother criteriaandthe PPARmissionvisited
   areas where women's' participationwas as highas 55 percent. The PPARmission also
   confirmedthe findings o f the Subproject's Technical Assessment Consultants who noted that
   the social mobilization andadherence to the established criteria was muchhigher inareas
   served by the NGOthan bythe cons&tnts.

   3.7     The implementation arrangements with multiple layers created a lengthy procedure
   both for approval o fworks andrelease o fpayments. The component was plagued with long
   delays inthe flow o f funds from the center to the Districts and final payments to the project
   participants. Uponsubmission ofthe project for final approval, the contractors and the NGO
I  were expected to receive 20 percent ofthe contract value as advance payment. However
   suchpayment was delayed considerably or not made. Payment requests, approved bythe
   District Councils are submitted to the Ministryo f Local Government and Housing for
:  Bpproval andtransmittal to the DMMUthroughNRB,who authorized payments. Inthe
   villages visited, the PPARmissionwas informed that the contractors and the NGOshadto
   use their own resources to pay overdue wages to participatingworkers. Delays o f two
   months were common from the time the consultants or the NGO submitted requests for
   payments. The lengthy clearance and approvalprocess penalized the roadwork participants
   who needed the income to overcome the food crisis.

   3.8     The Ministryo f Community Development and Social Services (MCDSS), MAC0
-- andDDMUwere responsible for theAgriculturalRehabilitation Component. Three local
   NGOa--ProgrammeAgainst Malnutrition(PAM), Cooperative League ofUSA(CLUSA)
   andAdventist ReliefAgency (ADRA)-- were selected through a competitivebidding
   process andwere given a two-year contract to implement the component inthree Agro-
   Ecological zones. PAMhad an ongoing contract with the MCDSS implementing the national
-  FSP program. The EDWAgricultural RehabilitationComponent was modeledafter the FSP
   and was designed to promotehousehold food security for about 240,000 smallholders by
   supplyinga package o fhighvalue inputs-seeds,         fertilizers andlime---and introducing
   conservationfarmingtechniques such as plantingmethods, minimumtillage, water
   conservationtechnologies, etc. A NationalFood SecurityPack Committeewas responsible
   for guidingthe implementationandsimilar Committees were established at Provincial and
   District levels. With inputs from Vulnerability Assessments, the District Committees
   identified the most food insecure villages andthroughcommunity consultations the
   participating households were selected. To sustain the program, the NGOsrequired the
   participating farmers to establish `Grain Banks' and deposit 10-20percent o ftheir produce as

                                                   10


  anin-kindrepayment. Participatingfarmers established "Depot Committees" to oversee the
  distribution o fFSPs and recoveries at harvest. Due to the long selectionprocess, the NGOs
  started the program late and coupled with the risingcost o f fertilizer and transport, the
  program didnot reach the planned number o f farm households. The bulk ofthe project fwnds
  were used to procure the inputs and the DMMUmade the payments to the selected suppliers.

  3.9      To enhance the Government's capacity inearly warning system anddisaster
  managementandmitigation capacity, the DMMU, the Meteorological Department inthe
  MinistryofCommunications andTransport andthe EarlyWarningUnitinMAC0were the
  objects o fthe technical assistance. Consultants were hired to provide the technical assistance
  and the DMMUcoordinated the procurement o f equipment for the three agencies.

  3.10     The estimated andactual Project Costs and Financing Sources are presented inTable
  3. InSeptember 2004, the NORADTrust Fundwas declared effective and augmented the
  resources for the Safety Net Component. The higher actual Project Cost i s explainedby the
  additional resources fromNORAD andthe appreciation ofthe SDR duringthe life o fthe
  Project. The NORAD contribution was not known at the time o f appraisal. The final
  NORAD disbursement was $2.91 millionout o f $3.4 million andwas usedmainly for the
  Social Safety Net and TA components.

   Table 3. ProjectCost andFinancingby Component(US$ mill)

                                                                     Total      Total
  Pro@ctComponents           IDAINORAD           GO Zambia           Project    Project
                                                                     Cost       cost


                             Appraisal  Actual Appraisal     Actual Appraisal   Actual


  Quick Disbursing-Imports   35.0       30.75    0.0          0.0    35.0       30.75
  Social Safety Net          7.0        10.6      0.30        0.30   7.30       10.90
  Agricultural Inputs        7.0        13.16     0.16  ..    0.16   7.16       13.32
  TechnicalAssistance        1.oo       2.04      0.02        0.02   1.02       2.06
 _GrandTotal ,.              50.0       ~ 6 ~ 5 5 0.48        q.48   50.48      57.03



  .3.11    ThereleaseofGovernment counterp& contributionwas made on time. However,
  credit disbursement was generally slow for a project with 70per cent o f the total credit
  allocated to a quick disbursingcategory basedon submission o f documents for eligible
  imports. By October 2003, nearlyeight months after effectiveness, the cumulative
  disbursement was only US$l1.9 million o fwhich 80 per cent was made under the retroactive
  financing facility (Fig. 3).
...       . .      . . .  .   . .-   . .
                                      - .. -. .., .
                                             ..     .- - - ... .   ..

                                                              11


    Figure3. Annual and CumulativeDisbursement



                 50.0

              1-
              5  40.0
              I

              g  30.0
                 20.0
                 10.0
                   0.0
                                    2003         I +Annual      2004                           2005
                                                                      +CurnulatiwI

     3.12     Delaysinthe processingof supporting documents and o fwithdrawal applications to
     IDApartlyexplainthe slow disbursement. The Government hadto seek a-six month
     extensionofthe Credit Closing date to June 30,2005, to complete the remaining
     procurements andworks.

     4.- -Outputsand Outcomes

   - indicators (in
 1   4.1 -    The KeyPerformance Indicatorspresented inthe project documents are output
  .                   value andphysical quantity) andthe number of target beneficiaries. Table 4
     presents the project targets and the actual achievements. While the project was largely
     implementedas designed, a few planned subprojects, notably the installationof 12Bailey
     Bridgesandthe sinking ofwater supplyboreholes, were not completed. At the time of
     Credit Closing, the Task Team hadproposedto the Government to include the remaining
     works under aproposedBridgeRehabilitationProjectwhich was underpreparation.
-    Table 4. ProjectTargets and Actual
- . Sub-projects                                                   Target             Actual      Actual (%)
-    Imp&    under positivelist&JS$mill)                            35.0               30.75         88
                       Construct newWater Boreholes(nos)            250                 45            18
                                  Rehab. old Borholes (nos)         460                 188          41
     Feeder Road Maintenance (km)                                  1,200              2,880         240

     EmploymentCreated-Road- (no.)                                160,000             151,700        95
     Farmers Participating(no)                                    240,000             192,000        80
     Animal DiseaseControl-outbreaks reduced(per cent)             25-80              21-80        85-100
     DMMUCapacityStrengthening                                       TA             Completed        I00
     DMMU-ImpactEvaluation                                           TA             Completed        100
     Meteorological Department                                EquipmentrrA          Completed        100
     Source: EDRP TechnicalAnnex, ICRand GOZ. The animal disease indicatorsare missionestimates.

     4.2      Agricultural inputs and other imports supported Government's emergency
     assistance: The Government's drought reliefandrecovery program mobilized both
     humanitarian andrecovery assistance fkom UNagencies, bilateral andthe Bank.The private

                                                   12


  sector also actively participatedinfood and fertilizer imports. The total actual import value
  was 88 percent o f the original allocation. Duringthe mid-term review, reallocations were
  made which allowed an increase for the other categories notably for the agricultural
  component. Imports o fpetroleumwhich accounted for 54 per cent o f the total quick
  disbursingallocationhelpedtransportrelieffood to remote areas. Bank financed agricultural
  inputs, particularly fertilizers (9 per cent), augmented local supplies. Quantitybreakdownof
  importedgoods by commodity was not kept inthe project files. Since the component was
  treated as a Balance o fPayments support, with a couple o f exceptions, the project document
  didnot specify quantitative targets except apositivelist o fimports andan allocationo fcredit
  proceeds.

  4.3     With the newlyprocured andrehabilitatedwater drilling rigs, the Departmento f
  Water Affairs took the lead insinkingnew and rehabilitating existing boreholes in21
  Districts. At the time the Credit was Closed, the rehabilitation o f the existingrigs was not
  fully completed andthe sinkingo fthe plannedboreholes were only partially completed
  (Table 4). Duringthe PPARmission, the Department o f Water Affairs indicated that the
  remainingboreholes would be completedinDecember 2006. Invillages where water pumps
  were installed, the users informedthe PPAR missionthat inaddition to receivingdrinking
  water for themselves and livestock, they have started vegetable gardens andexperienced a
  lower incidence o f illness from water born diseases.

  4.4     Wagepayments, and assets created and`rehabilitated have-boostedhousehold
  incomes and improved livelihoods: Two types o fpublic works were undertaken: (i)        feeder
  roadrepair, improvement and maintenance; and(ii)       other civil works, including
  improvement o f shallow drinkingwater wells, construction o fVIP latrines, and
  repair/reconstruction o fdippingtanks. The works were constructed inareas severely affected
  bydrought andincludedpriority works as identifiedbythe communities. A keyobjective o f
  the Safety Net component was to quickly generate income for the drought affected
  populations while creating andrehabilitating assets. The project has improved feeder road
  rehabilitation works measuring 2880 km.--exceeding the appraisal estimate by 140percent.
  This was made possible bynearly doubling the allocation.inresponse to an overwhelming
  demand for income-generating activities and knding from NORAD. The PPARmission
  visited communities where roadimprovements were made andnoted the externalities that
  arose from easy access to the villages. The villagers pointedout the opening ofmarkets for
  agricultural inputs and outputs, and consumer goods. Access to healthandeducation
  services has been facilitatedby the road improvements. Women have maintainedtheir
  groups that were established duringthe roadworks andhave started other activities including
  pre-school for their children andincome-generating schemes usingthe skills they have
  gained under the project.

  4.5     Inresponseto the Government's proposed drought responseplan, theIDATeam's
..recommendationwas a three-pronged interventionincludingthe emergency operation. A
  joint IDNGOZ Team identified several ongoing IDA assistedprojects from which
  undisbursed credit balances could be earmarked for the drought affected districts. An
  agreement was reached with GOZ at appraisal to reallocate resources amounting to $21
  millionto finance activities inthe drought affected districts. This agreement was not
  includedinthe D C A butwas recordedinthe project documents (MOP and Technical

                                                 13


Annex). However, ZAMSIF i s the only agency that has supported the EDRP with public
works amounting to US$ 0.8 million.

4.6      A key issue inthe implementationo fpublic works component was the inordinate
delay inmakingpayments to the contractors who were also constrained to make timely wage
payments to the project participants. According to the evaluation o f the public works
component, 98 per cent o fthe actual payments were delayed by more than two m~nths.~This
was a major shortcoming for such an important intervention. The implication o f delayed
wage payments meant that the participatingworkers hadto enter into debt to meet their basic
necessities-mainly    food. Manyhad to withdraw their children from school for lack o f food
and failure to pay school fees.

4.7      The project had also made provision for bridge improvements andplanned the
installation of 12 Bailey bridges. The Bailey bridges were procured earlier under a bilateral
assistanceproject andwere awaiting installation. Although civil contracts were signed and
initial payments made under the EDRP, all the Baileybridges were not installedat the time
o f Credit Closing and the PPARmission. The DMMUhandedthe bridges to the Roads
Development Agency to complete under their regular budget.

4.8      The provision of agriculturalinputsand advisory services increased agricultural
production, and the supply of vaccines averted the spread of animal diseases. The three
selectedNGOsoperated in38 drought affected Districts. PAMwas assigned to 20 Districts
becauseo f its presenceunder the on-going FSPprogramo fthe GOZ. ADRA and CLUSA
sharedthe remainingtarget districts. The project promotedhousehold food security
measures throughthe introductionof: (i)      conservation fanning; (ii) diversification; (iii)
                                                                          crop
cultivation ofwetlands (thewest banks o fthe Zambezi River); and (iv) food processing and
nutrition education. The Project hadplannedto reach a total o f 120,000 households per year.
However due to delays inthe start-up o fthe project and increases inthe costs o f inputs, only
114,000 households participated inthe first year (2003/04) and only 74,000 farm families
participated inthe second year, bringingthe total participationrate to 80 percent o f the
target.

4.9      In2003/04, the first year o ftheproject, totalmaizeproduction inZambia remainedat
the same level as in2002/03, but declinedby 28 percent in2004/05 due to the partialdry
spell conditions. However, project participatingfarmers have achieved notableresults. Due
to higher input andtransport costs, only 80 per cent o fthe target beneficiarieswere covered
under the project. Notwithstandingthe reducednumber o fbeneficiaries, the project
introducedimproved farmingmethods-minimum tillage bymakingbasins usinghoes and
rippingusinganimaldraft power- distributedfertilizers, seeds andlime. Onaverage 35
percent o fprojectparticipants inthe Districts covered by PAM, adopted conservation
farmingpractices. As a result, inthe 2004/2005 crop seasonwhenrainfallwas below the
long-run average and when dry spell conditions prevailedinsome parts o fthe country,
farmers who hadcontinued the conservation farming sufferedmuch lower crop losses than
farmers applyingtraditional farmingpractices. According to CLUSA, farmers who have
adopted conservation farming and applied the recommended inputshad a 25 percent higher

                                                                        0
4. Disaster ManagementUnit, `Draft TechnicalAssessment Report', June 2005.

                                               14


yield than the control group farmers. Moreover, 95 percent o fproject farmers also started
crop diversification, particularly into cassavaplantings. The project also boostedcrop
productioninwet lands as a critical food supplement duringthe peak hungrySeason
(December-February). The marginal production from wetlands bridges the food gap when
crop prices are high. Farmers have also benefitedfrom food processing andnutrition training
programs. Zambia, like its neighbors relies primarilyon maize meal as the principal food
staple. To diversify food consumption and improve householdfood security status, the
Government is promoting the plantingo f cassava and other highvalue food crops. Toward
this end, the project has also made some contribution inproviding cassava cuttings and in
training households infood storage andprocessing. Cassavais viewed as a food security
crop with longer storage life and i s less susceptible to dry spells.

4.10    A commendable feature ofthe subproject isthe establishment o fthe GrainBanksto
recover in-kindrepayments to sustain the program. At the endo f the Project, a number of
Farmer Groups that were established to operate the Grain Banks were still functioning and
were registeredas cooperatives to enter into other farm relatedactivities and operate Bank
accounts. Recoveryrates from participating fanners inthe FSP project Districts were 70-80
percent in2003/04 and 60-70 percent in2004/05. The recovery decline in2004/05 i s
attributed to the poor harvests due to drought conditions inthe latter part o fthe growing
season. In2004/2005, maize production inZambia declinedby more than 30 percent.

4.1 1 The animal disease control sub-component providedvaccination against various
recurringdiseases inZambia andthe regioningeneral. The spread o f foot andmouth
diseasehas eroded one o f the principal livelihoods o fpoor households due to distress sales.
IntheSouthernProvince, as aresultofthe drought andmajordiseaseoutbreaks, livestock
populationhas declined by about 50 percent. A major campaignwas launchedto contain the
spreado f animal diseases across provinces. Vehicles were sprayed when entering disease
free zones from other provinces inorder to arrest the rapid expansiono f diseases such as foot
andmouth, anthrax, andother contagious diseases. The last vaccination dose was given after
the creditwas closed to completethe program. As aresulttheproject has achieved an 85-
I00percentreductioninanimal diseaseoutbreak.

4.12   .The TechnicatAssistance has enhanced Zambia's-emergencymitigation and
management capacity and early warning system. The Project has successfully implemented
the TechnicalAssistance component withsignificant results. Indrought-prone countries, the
lack of a reliable early warning system exacerbates the resulting food crisis. Consequently,
possible emergency mitigationmeasures are not executed ina timely way and the focus turns
to emergency relief andrecovery assistance. The EDRPhas enhanced the humanresource
capacities, upgraded the specialized equipments and expanded the geographic coverage of
the DMMU, MACO's Early Warning System Unit, andthe Department o fMeteorology.
Consultants assistedthe DMMUinpreparingthe National Disaster Management Policy and
DisasterManagement Operations Manual. These two key documents were completed in
August 2005 and subsequently approved bythe Government. The approval confirms the
DMMUas Zambia's leadcoordinatingagency for disaster management andmitigationand
definedthe roles o f Government Ministries and agencies, collaborationwith NGOs and
development partners. The Vice President of Zambia is the Chair ofthe NationalDisaster
Management Committee. Other inter-ministerialtechnical committees and similar

                                               15


committees at provincial levelshave also been established. The DMMUacts as the
Secretariat for the National Disaster Mitigation Committee. To further strengthen its capacity
as Zambia's focal point for national disasters, the Project also financed an Emergency
Operations Center inDMMUwhere country-wide data is gathered andprocessed for
dissemination. When the newly established Emergency Operation Center inthe DMMUi s
fully operational, it will provide valuable timely data onunfolding emergencies.

4.13    The provisiono f selected equipment to 18 weather stations ofthe Department o f
Meteorology and staff training hasboosted the Department's rainfall forecasting and
reportingcapacity significantly. Notable results attributedto EDRP include:(i) timely receipt
o fweather data fkom the regional stations; ii)reporting stations increased from 17 to 24; (iii)
crop-weather bulletins are disseminated to the public andprivate sector mass media; and (iv)
improved rainfall and temperature map are issued. MACO's Early Warning System Unit
was established in 1986 and the project financed staff training and improveddata processing
equipment. The Unitis monitoring crop production o f 8,000 farm households in45 o f
Zambia's 72 Districts and issuespre-harvest andpost harvest crop estimates. Incollaboration
with the Department o fMeteorology, the Unitmakes three crop forecasts annually andis
used as a basis for taking mitigation measures against possibledomestic productionfailures.


5.
5.1     The project's overall Outcome i s rated moderately satisfactory reflectingmodest
ratings for relevance and efficacywith respect to one o fthe two development objective-to
alleviate the impact ofthe drought. Project appraisal targets have not been met even after a
six-month extension o f the Credit Closing date was granted. The substantial increase inroad
works compared to appraisal targets is explainedby the additional funds providedby
NORAD a year after the project started. Table 5 Summarizes the Outcome ratings.

Table 5. Summaryof OutcomeRatings

Development               Relevance               Efficacy                Efficiency
Obiectives
Alleviatethe impactof     Modest                  Modest                  Not Rated
the drought
StrengthenBorrower        Substantial            Substantial              Not Rated
capacityto develop,
implementand mange
mediumand long term
drought mitigation
measures           h

                         Overall Project Outcome: ModeratelySatisfactory



5.2     Relevance of the project objectives and design: Overall, relevance i s rated modest.
The objectivesofthe project were relevant to the current CAS (2004-2007) which was aimed
at achieving: (i)sustained economic growth anchored ina diversified economy; (ii)    improved
lives andprotectiono fthe most vulnerable; and (iii)  a well managed public sector. The

                                               16


 project's objectives were consistent with the CAS objectives. The provision o f agricultural
 inputsandthe attempts made to diversify crop productionwere interventions to improve
 household`foodsecurity. The Bank i s preparing a new CAS (2008-2011) which will be
 anchored inthe new FifthNational Development Plan (2006-2010) and that may be a sequel
 to the first PovertyReductionStrategy. The FifthPlan recognizes Zambia's vulnerability to
 recurrent disasters and implications for the economy ingeneral and the poor inparticular.
 Such recognitiono fweather relatedrisk shouldbe explicitly noted inthe Bank's assistance
 strategy. The FifthPlanpays particular attentionto the core agricultural production and
 productivity constraints. The Project objectives had also embraced Zambia's Poverty
 ReductionStrategy. Duringthe past five years poverty incidencehas declinedmarginally
 and the project's contributionto povertyreductionwas equally modest. The project's
 objective o f strengthening the Borrower's drought management and mitigation capacity i s in
 line with the CAS objective of improvingthe performance o f the public sector.

 5.3      Was the project design appropriate for the statedproject development objectives? The
 project design hasnotable shortcomings. The delays inaccessing the proceeds from the
 Quick Disbursingcomponent and the payment o fparticipants inthe Safety Net component
 (para. 5.8) point to weaknesses inthe relevance o fproject design. As stated inthe ICR,
 "Speed in.   .implementation[of  emergency operations] are critical elements of success.
 These lessons remainvalid, but were generallynot practiceby EDRP.'' The foreign
 exchange shortage in2002 and 2003 was used as ajustification for a quick disbursing
 facility. It appearsthat the Government had access to other sources o f foreign exchange. In
 July2002, the Zambia Consultative Group Meetingpledged $1.2 billionofBalanceo f
 Payments Support for the implementationo f the PRSP. Moreover, the copper price was
 rec-overingfast. Zambia's average annual import bill for 2003-2005 was about US$1.5
 billion andthe total quick disbursing component was planned for US$35 million,
 representing a small fraction o fthe Zambia's import bill. After the mid-term review, about
 US$5 million was reallocated to the other categories. Duringthe same period, Zambia met
 and even exceededthe gross internationalreserve targets agreed with the IMFunder the
 PovertyReduction and Growth Facility. The slow pace of disbursement suggests that the
 foreign exchange pressure may have beenminimal.

 5.4    ' Under the Quick Disbursingcomponent, 42 per cent o fthe total allocationwas used
 for public sector imports. One o f the major public sector import packages was for the
 procurement o fnew rigs for the Department ofWater Affairs. The Assessment questions the
 justification for supplyinga public sector agency with capital goods renderingunfair
 advantage to compete with private sector service providers. Private sector drillers are
 available inZambia and should not be crowded out bypublic sector agencies. The
 Department hasa muchbroader nationalpolicy makingresponsibility inthe water sector
 including the development o fthe National Irrigation Policy andPlanand ccfuld have
 contracted private sector drillingcompanies to sink boreholes andinstall the pumps.
 Outsourcingto private sector drilling companies wouldhave beena boost to the local
 capacity andtimely completion of the plannedwater pumps.

 5.5
I         The institutional arrangement for implementing the Safety Net component proved
 cumbersome and caused delayedpayments to project participants. The rationale for
 GOZBankproject preparation team to select the NationalRoadBoard (NRB)was the

                                                   17


  NRB's involvement inroadprojects. Together with NRB, the Ministryo f Local Government
  and Housing was also involved inthe implementationo f the road works. The various layers
  lengthened the review andapproval process and the DMMUwas not replenishingthe Special
  Account regularly and hadto ration the available balances inthe Special Account between
  competing components. The Assessment also questions as to why the Zambia Social
  Investment Fundwas not selectedto take the lead inimplementingthe SafetyNet given its
  longterm involvement inimplementingpublic works type projectswith experience in
  mobilizing communities. Duringa meetingwith ZAMSIF, the management informed the
  PPARmissionthat despite the slight change inintroducingwage payments to project
  participants under the emergency operation, ZAMSIF could have integratedthe component
  inits work program. The choice ofZAjMSIF couldhave also expeditedthe timely payment of
  wages.5 The relevance o f the project design i s therefore ratedmodest.

  5.6      Efficacy of Project Objectives is rated modest. The Assessment i s based onthe
  achievement o fthe two project objectives. First, to what extent didthe project alleviate the
  impact o fthe drought? In2003 and 2004, the project has provided highpriority imported
  inputs amounting to $30 million. Although the enduse o f such imports except for the water
  drillingrigs andanimal vaccines were notmonitored, imported fuel, fertilizers and
  equipment augmented the supply inthe domestic markets. The amount is small comparedto
  Zambia's two-year importbill. Participants inthe Safety Net and agriculturalrehabilitation
  components have increased their incomes andrehabilitatedcommunity assets, allowing them
  to meet their basic needs. The 200U2002 food crisis had affected an estimated 2.9 million
  people in38 Districts o f which the Project has assistedabout 0.350 million. Though modest
  incoverage, theproject, initstwo andhalfyear duration, hasprovidedlimitedlivelihoods to
  project participants. The improvedroads have eased access to remote villages facilitating
  marketpromotion anddelivery o f social services. Notwithstanding the delayed wage
  payments, which impacts the efficacy rating, incomes from the public works andfarm
  productionraisedhouseholdfood consumption and temporarily covered other basic needs.
  Nearly 152,000 ruralpeoplebenefited fromwage employment under the public works
  component. The average monthly household income before the project was estimated at
  about K40,OOO. With the project, monthly wage earningsjumped to K150,OOO. However,
  the lengtho f employmentvaried from 2-12 months andsixty-six percent were employed for
  less than2 months. The introductiono f conservation farming and GrainBanks has enhanced
  the farmers' capacity to reduce the impact o f hture shocks. Without the project, the project
  beneficiaries would have competed for minimumfood aid handouts.

  5.7      Despite the successinthe implementationo fthe public works and the agriculture
  components, two major factors argue for a modest ratingo fthe project's achievement o f
  alleviating the impact o f the drought. First, the delayed start-up coupledwith the
  inappropriate timingthe public works (at the beginningo fthe crop season) andpayment
  delays exceeding 60 days makethe project ineffective as an emergency operation aimed at
. restoringhouseholdincome. The DMMU's Assessment report confirmed that households
  entered into debt waiting for payments. There were also instances when contractors
  abandonedtheir sites due to lack o f working capital becauseo fpayment delays. Second, the


  5. Inthe Malawi EDRP, the Malawi Social Action Fundwas selected to implement similar conditional cash
  transfers for public works.

                                                18


inordinate delay inaccessing the proceeds for the balance o fpayments support equally
defeated the rationale for a quick disbursingcomponent. To make up for these delays the
project's closing date was extended by six months. Due to these shortcomings, the efficacy of
the fist objective i s rated modest.

5.8      Second, what were the project's achievements instrengthening the Borrower's
capacity to develop, implement and mange mediumand long term drought mitigation
measures? The Project has successfully strengthened the capacities o fthree key Government
agencies-the DMMU,the Department o fMeteorology andthe Early Warning Unitof
M A C 0 as described inparas.4.12 and 4.13. In2004/05 maizeproduction declined by 28
percent. However, due to Zambia's strong economic ppformance, rising export earnings,
and the timely warning o f the impending food shortage, Zambia was able to weather the
production shortfall by timely imports and overall improvedemergency response. Thejoint
earlywarning collaborationofthe DMMU,the Department ofMeteorology, the Central
Statistical Office and MACO'sEarly Warning SystemUnit(acting as the Secretariat for the
four agencies) is exemplary. The efficacy o fthe project's overall institutional objective i s
rated substantial.

5.9      As an emergency operation, the Projectwas not tested against the standardproject
efJiciency criteria. The one component that was amenable to a standard rate o freturn analysis
since the benefits and costs are quantifiablewas the Agricultural Rehabilitationcomponent.
Based on the assessmentreports o fthe Food Security Packs, the financial rates of return
appear viable. The operating cost for the Safety Net component i s about 15 per cent which is
withinthe acceptable range of similar public works projects. For lack o fquantitative
measures, the overall efficiency i s not rated,

5.10     The Risks toDevelopment Outcomesi s a function ofthe design o fthe project andthe
identificationo fplannedlongterm interventions followingthe completion o fthe project. The
project has a dual feature o f short and long term interventions. The bulk o f the project was
aimed at Balance o fPayments support andthe imported items were inputs that were applied
to farmlands and capital goods that would continue to create new assets. Inview o fZambia's
improved foreign exchange position due to higher copper prices andthe pushfor export
diversification, priority imports financed under the project would likely continue andhelp
increase agricultural production. What about the continued benefits from the improved
feeder roads andthe water supply systems financed under the project? Inthe areas the PPAR
missionvisited, two years after the roadworks were completed, they appearedwell
maintained. The communities feel that the roadbelongs to them and the Districts have taken
the leadto organize them to helpmaintainthe roadworks. The Districtshavemade
arrangements to provide simple tools andhire machinery as needed to the communities. The
water supply points are the responsibility o fhouseholds within the catchment area. Informal
village operationandmaintenance groups are formed to look after the water pumps. Funds
are raised from the users to repair the pumps.

5.11 The continuedavailability o f the Food SecurityPack andthe accompanying advisory
services is highly questionable. To sustain the adoption o fthe new agricultural practicesand
use of productivity-enhancing inputswould require the inclusiono fthe project farmers under
the Government's Food Security Pack program and Fertilizer Support Program. This is an

                                                    19


unlikelyscenario since the FSP has drastically reducedits nationalprogramand the Fertilizer
Support Program hardly reaches 10per cent o f the target population. However, the new Fifth
NationalDevelopment Planhas laid out a formidable long-term agricultural and food
security strategy that will address the core sectoral issues. Coupled with the implementation
of the National IrrigationPlan, and the successhl implementationo f the Government's
smallholder productivity enhancement program, Zambia has the potential to develop
competitive agriculture and attainnational andhousehold food security. GivenZambia's
past track recordthe realizationo f the development plans faces substantial risk.

5.12     The institutionalcapacity strengthening i s the most successfbl project activity and the
outcome i s sustainable. The DMMU,MACO's EarlyWarning SystemUnit,and the
Department ofMeteorologyhave effectively utilizedthe project's technical assistance and
supplyo fequipment which enhanced their performancesignificantly. Based on the risk
assessmentso fthe project outcomes, the overall Riskto DevelopmentOutcomes is rated
significant.

5.13     TheBunk's Performance inassisting the Government inthe designofthe project
andbringingto bear the Bank's international experience inemergency operations was
commendable. The Regionorganizeda Task Forceto assist the Task Team inthe design of
the project and drew lessons from other Bank-assisted operations but fell short inapplying
the lessonslearned. The speed at which the Bank respondedto the Government request was
appreciated. Inpreparing the project, the Bank-Teamwent into great depth to review the
Bank-assistedportfolio inZambia andidentified a series o f activities that would supplement
the EDRPunder ongoing operations. The Bank Team andthe Government hadagreed to use
about $21 million ofproject financing inthe 38 drought-affected Districts. This agreement
was not formally made through amendments ofthe projects' DCAs but was recorded only in
the EDRPProject documents (MOP and Technical Annex). The use ofthese resources
would have increased total EDRPexpenditure by about 40 percent. The Bank's
performancefor Quality at Entryis ratedmoderatelysatisfactorydue to the design
weaknessesdescribedinparas.5.2-5.5.

5.14    The Bank's performancein supervisingthe project andprovidingtimely and
effectiveassistanceto the ImplementingAgencies is also ratedmoderatelysatisfactory.
There were four Task Team Leaders (TTLs) for a Project that lasted less thantwo and half
years includingthe Task Team Leader duringpreparationthrough BoardPresentation. The
highturnover ofTTLsis reflectedinthe varyingquality andthe repetitiveness o fthe
Supervision Reports, and the heavier focus on process than on reporting on results. A total o f
81staffweeks (32 staffweeks per year) was usedto supervise the project which is double the
average supervision coefficient6. Task management was also transferred to the Country
Office inAugust 2004. Bankclearance and approval o fprocurement actions took
inordinatelylonger than warranted since all such actions were taken inWashington. Bank
supervision missions also overlookedto review the agreement reached with the Government
on the use o fthe proceeds from ongoing Bank-assisted projects inthe EDRPtarget Districts.
Havingprepared detailed descriptions ofthe activities to be financed, the ideawas never
pursued duringthe life o f the Project. Neither the Banknor the Borrower made any attempt


6. The currentaverage supervisioncoefficient for Bank-assistedprojects is about 15 staffweeksper year.

                                               20


to follow-up with the target project authorities. The PPARmission was able to obtain data
fromZAMSIF showingpublic works worth US$0.8 millionwas implementedinparallel
sevenproject districts. The Bank's overall performance i s rated moderately satisfactory.

5.15    The Borrower's Performance for Quality at entry is satisfactory. The Government's
"Drought Management and Mitigation Plan: Policy, Strategy and Intervention" i s a well
thought out document which outlinedthe Government's: (i)     immediate and short-term
measures to save lives and assets; (ii)
                                      medium-term measures to target the poor to recover
their production capacity; and (iii)long-term to enhance planning and management capacity
to address fbture natural disasters.

5.16    The performance of the Implementing Agencies i s rated moderately satisfactory.
Theratingispartly due to the cumbersome institutional arrangements established for the
implementationo fthe project. Multiple layers o f agencies slowed down decisionmaking,
and created lengthy clearance andapprovalprocess. As a result o f delayedpayments, a few
contractors hadto abandon their work and the project participants hadto enter into debt.
Lack o f experience with the Bank's procurement procedure andthe absenceo f a Bank
procurement Specialist inthe>CountryOffice delayed the recruitment o f Consultants and
procurement o f water drilling rigs. Bythe time the Credit was closed, and after a six-month
extension, nearly 80 percent o fnew and 59 per cent o f old boreholes were not completed.

5.17    To assist in-themanagement o fthe food crisis, theGovernment allowed selected
private sector importersto supply imported food and to sell at subsidized prices. The
introduction o f subsidized maizemay have created market distortions and discouraged other
potentialmaize importers since the subsidy was exclusively to a few selected grain traders.
The Government's rationalewas to make food affordable to the severely drought stricken
areasbut the targeting may have suffered from both inclusion and exclusion errors. The
overall Borrower's Performance i s therefore rated moderately satisfactory.

5.18    As part o fthe capacity strengthening o fthe DMMU,a consultant designed an
appropriate Information System anda Monitoring andEvaluationSystem. These systems
were intendedto serve not only the EDRPbut DMMU's national mandate as a lead agency
for disaster mitigationandmanagement. Due.tolack o f staff, the systems are notoperational.
However, project monitoring and evaluation was regular especially for the Safety Net and
Agricultural RehabilitationComponents. The PPARmissionhas reviewed the Evaluation
Reports and found them o fvariable quality rangingfrom in-depthassessment o fthe project
outputs and outcomes to simple reportingo f outputs. As a Senior Official o fthe DMMU
observed, the design and full implementation o fthe systemsis `a journey andwe are ontrack
butmaybemoving slowly'. The DMMUis well placedto utilize these tools inthe
implementationo fthe NationalDisaster Management Policy andthe Disaster Management
Operations Manual. To complement the DMMU's monitoringo f food crisis, Zambia has in
place an elaborate andcredible Vulnerability Assessment Monitoring System (VAMS). The
System identifies the food insecure areas andhouseholds based onnation-wide field surveys.
The results are used for planningemergency assistanceby the DMMUand food aid
providers. A missing linkinthe system is evaluationof disaster mitigationinterventions. The
DMMUhasyet to establish anevaluation capacity or outsource thetask untilitsin-house

                                               21


capacity is fully operational. The monitoringand evaluationsystemis ratedas modest
for implementationand utilization.


6.      Lessons

6.1     Zambiahas the abundant water and land resources to avert food crisis. Inrecent
years, the economy has been growing at a respectable rate due to recovery incopper prices
and most importantly improved macro-economic stability and better government expenditure
control. In2005, Zambia was also rewarded substantial debt reliefwhich i s allowing the
economy to pursueits challengingbut achievable higher growthpath andpovertyreduction.
The recently approved FifthNational Development Planhas acknowledged Zambia's past
shortfalls betweenplans and actions andhas articulated Zambia's renewed commitment to
tackle the development challenges facing Zambia. It has also demonstrated its commitment
to the democratization process byallowing its citizens exercise their voting power. External
shocks andnaturaldisasterswill remainas substantial and recurrent risks.

6.2     Disasters, notably floods and droughts are recurrent episodes inZambia. Heavy rains
inearly2007 are damagingproperties, agriculturalandruralinfrastructureandmaturing
crops. This is the thirdnatural disaster poundingZambia since the 2001/2002 food crisis.
The GOZ, despite the substantial damages and losses o f assets andrural household income,
has decided not to declare an emergency. This is indicative o f Zambia's growing capacity to
manage emergencies for which the EDRP has madenotable contributions. It is also a tribute
to the effectiveness o fthe various national, provincial anddistrict disaster management and
mitigation committees and offices. Several valuable lessons, relevant to both the
Government and the Bank emerge from the design and implementation o f the EDRP.

        Bank assistance shouldpay particular attention tofood security issues in countries
        with chronicfood insecurity and vulnerability to natural disasters: Zambia is
        vulnerable to recurrent naturaldisasters that exacerbate householdfood insecurity and
        trigger macroeconomic imbalances. Notwithstanding the importanceo f a favorable
        rainfall distribution duringthe crop growingseason, rainfall i s only one factor in
        determining agriculturalproductivity. The Government's FifthNational
        DevelopmentPlanaccords highpriority to food security. To achieve this objective,
        Zambia, with the support from the Bank and other DevelopmentPartners, needs to
        invest heavily inproductivity-enhancing technologies, irrigation infrastructure, and
        rural roads, andallow a levelplaying field for bothpublic andprivate sector service
        providers. Zambiahas the potentialnot only to feed itselfbut also to become a
        granary for its eight neighboringcountries. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
        should also recognize naturaldisasters as risks to development outcomes.

        Toaddressfood insecuritya regional approach whichpromoted regional trade is
        needed. The Southern AfXcan states belongto SADC andshare many common
        development challenges-food      insecurity, HIV AND AIDS, weak governance, and
        recurrent naturaldisasters. Inorder to meet their individual food security objectives,
        the member states frequently impose trade barriers, despite their commitment to free

                                          22


 trade agreedunder CommonMarket for East and Southern Africa (COMESA)
 frequently put trade b,arriers.However the porous borders especiallybetweenland-
 lockedcountries like Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe, benefit from informal cross-
 border trade especially infood. The NEiPAD supported framework for promoting
 food security, one o fthe Pillars o f the Comprehensive Africa Agricultural
 DevelopmentProgram (CADAP) is a suitable forum to pursue such a regional
 approach to food security.

 It is essential to the success of apublic worksproject to establish apriority objective
 of public works between quick incomegeneration and creation and/or
  rehabilitation of assets with an acceptable technical standard. An appropriate
 timing ofpublic works is also imperative to avert conflicting labor demandfor
  agriculture. Public works oftenhave the dual objective o f creating, albeit temporary,
  income generating employment and the creationand/or rehabilitation of community
  assets. Itis imperativeto determine the relative priority assigned to the objective o f
  income generation under an emergency situation when cash i s urgently needed to
  compensate for losses due to the natural disaster andrehabilitating or creating
  community assets that meet national technical standards maybe compromised. Often
  there are trade-offs and which should be acknowledged at the time o f designing a
  public works-based recoveryproject. Inthe Zambia EDRP, there were cases when the
  roadworks were underway inthe midst o fthe peak agricultural labor demand. Public
- works should also be timed appropriately to avoid possible diversion o f family labor
  from the family farm. The India employment generating public works program is a
  model success story.

  Careful selection of institutional arrangements to implement emergency operations
  would allow a quickproject start-up and minimize implementation risks: The
  multiple coordination and implementation committees established at the national,
  provincial andDistrict levels appear to have slowed down timely project
  implementation. The various layers formed to implement the SafetyNet component
  have caused the long delays inthe payment o f project participant. A key lesson
  emerging fkom the Zambia experience is that when there are well performing ongoing
  projects, the emergency operation should be designed with a view to providing
  additionalresources to such operations to target drought affected Districts. Inthe
  case of Zambia, the choice o fZAMSIF instead o f the NationalRoadBoard to
  implement the Safety Net component mighthave beenmore appropriate.

                                              23


References


Carlo del Ninno, Paul A. DoroshandKalanidhi Subbarao, 2006. "Food Aid, Domestic Policy and
Food Security: Contrasting Experiencesfrom SouthAsia and Sub-Saharan Africa".


Input-PACKS: "Impact/LessonsLearnt -Final Report".
Chibombo, Kapiri, Mkushi,Mumbwa & Serenje.2004. World BanWDMMU-EDRP,Food Security


FLASH.October 2005. "ResearchResultsof SIMA (Market Information) DEST (Statistics
Department) and DAP (Policy Analysis Department) of MRVAG (the Ministry of Agriculture of
Mozambique), Directorateof Economics. No. 46E

J.J. Nijhoff, DavidTschirley, T.S. Jape, Gelson Tembo, Pedro Arlindo, Billy Mwiinga, James D.
Shaffer, MichaelWeber, Cynthia Donovan andDuncanBoughton. U S A I D 2003: "Coordination for
Long-Term Food Security by Government,Private Sector and Donors: Issues and Challenges".

Ministryof Agriculture andCo-operatives,2004.NationalAgricultural Policy, 2004-2015.

NFU.2003.Conservation FarminginZambia

Paul B. Siegel, Jeffrey Alwang. 2005, "Poverty ReducingPotential of Smallholder Agriculture in
Zambia: Opportunities and Constraints.World Bank.

P A M (Program Against Malnutrition) 2005.Lusaka, Zambia. Food Security Pack Emergency
Drought Recovery Project :End of Project Report.

Republic o fZambia, Office o fthe Vice President, DisasterManagement &Mitigation UnitDisaster
Management andMitigation Unit, Lusaka Zambia -August 2005. "Disaster Management Operations
Manual   ".
________-August 2005. "National Disaster ManagementPolicy".
__________June2005: "Emergency Drought RecoveryProject - VolumesI,11and 111-Draft Social
Impact Assessment Report" by Scott Wilson PiesoldZambia LimitedinAssociation with CESDC
Consultants

SteenLauJorgensenandZlatina Loudjeva. 2005. Social Development Papers: "A Poverty and Social
Impact Analysis of ThreeReforms in Zambia: Land, Fertilizer and Infrastructure.

VAC (Vulnerability Assessment Committee) inCollaboration with SADC FANRVulnerability
Assessment Committee. Zambia. 2002. "Emergency Food Security Assessment Report

VAC (Vulnerability AssessmentCommittee) RapidAssessmenton the Effects o fRainfall on
Livelihoods. Zambia. 2006. "Emergency Food SecurityAssessment Report.

                                                 24


World FoodProgram. 2003. Rome: "Full Report of the Real-Time Evaluation of WFP's Response to
the Southern Africa Crisis, 2002-2003 (EMOP 10200).

World Food Programme.2004. Informal Cross Border FoodTrade in Southern Africa.

World Bank. 2002. Memorandum and Recommendation o f the President o fInternational
Development Association to the Executive Directors on a proposed"Emergency Drought Recovery
Project to the Republic ofZambia. Washington, D.C.
         "


--------------.2006. Implementation Completion Report. "Emergency Drought Recovery Project".
Washington, D.C.

----------__--.2006. Project Appraisal Document. Zambia
Project ". Washington, D.C.                             "AgriculturalDevelopment Support


------_--___-_.2004. Memorandumofthe President ofInternationalDevelopment Association to the
Executive Director on a "Country Assistance Strategy" for the Republic o fZambia. Washington,
D.C.

Zambia, Joint IDA-IMFStaff Advisory Note: Thirdannualprogress report onthe Implementation of
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2007.

                                            25                                 Annex A


Annex A. BasicDpta Sheet
EMERGENCYDROUGHRECOVERYPROJECT (CREDIT 3719-ZA)



                                            Appraisal       Actual or       Actual as % of
                                            estimate     current estimate  appraisal estimate
IDA Loan                                      50.0            53.64                 107

Co financing                                  0.0             2.91                   _-
Government                                    0.48            0.48                  I00

Total project cost                           50.48            57.03                 113


CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements(US$million)
                      FY03 FY04 FY05
Appraisalestimate     11.I 32.38 50.0
Actual                11.5   35.3 53.64
Actual as YOof        103    109   107
estimate


ProjectDates
                                                         ~~,~                   u*-%in IY(XC-LI L I I X W W
                                                  Original                  Actual

Departureof Appraisal Mission                                              08/26/2002
Appraisal                                                                  11I0412002

Boardapproval                                                              11/19/2002

Effectiveness                                    02/2812003                02/28/2003
Mid-Term Review                                                            0411912004
Closingdate                                      11/30/2004                06/30/2005




                                                  ActuaULatest Estimate
                                N" Staff weeks
Preparation/Appraisal                      35                             140
Supervision                                81                             358
Completion                                 18                              56
Total                                      134                            554

  Annex A                                        26


. Mission Data
                                                                                        Pe$ormance rating
                     (monthlyear)
                         Date       persons
                                     No. of     Specializationsrepresented         Implementation Development
                                                                                       status      obiectives
  Preparation/        09/23/2002       12       Task Team Leader, Senior
  Appraisal                                   Economist, Lead Procurement
                                            Specialist, Regional Advisor, Social
                                            Development Specialist, Economist,
                                             Agricultural Officer, Procurement
                                              Officer, Financial Management
                                            Specialist, Implementation Specialist
                                                         -Consultant
  Supervision 1       0611812003       10     Task Team Leader, Agricultural             S             .S
                                                    Officer, Consultant -
                                             Implementation Specialist, Senior
                                                 Transportation Specialist,
                                              Procurement Specialist, Senior
                                            Operations Analyst, M&E Specialist,
                                             Highway Engineer, Administrative
                                                     and Client.Support
  Supervision2         10131I2003      8    Task Team Leader, M&E Specialist,            S
                                            Implementation Specialist, Financial
                                            Management Specialist, Agricultural
                                              Officer, Procurement Specialist,
                                                 Lead Operations Officer,
                                             Administrative and Client Support
  Supervision3         04/20/2004      8    Task Team Leader, Senior Transport           S
                                                 Specialist, Implementation
                                             Specialist, Lead Operations Officer,
                                             Financial Management Specialist,
                                            ProcurementSpecialist, Agricultural
                                                            Officer
  Supervision4          1211712004     6     Task Team Leader, ARD Advisor,              S              S
                                             Implementation Specialist, Senior
                                               Transport Specialist, Financial
                                               Senior Management Specialist,
                                              Financial Management Specialist
   Supervision5        0511912005       5    Task Team Leader, Senior Financial          S              S
                                              Analyst, FinancialManagement
                                             Specialist, Transportation Specialist,
                                                 Senior Highway Engineer
   ICR
                         12118/05       3     Task Team Leader, Agricultural              S             S
                                             Officer, Administrative and Client
                                                            SUDDOl?

  PerformanceRating: S: Satisfactory

                                         27                              Annex B




Annex B: People andAgencies met

  1. PrincipalSecretary, Office ofthe Vice President (OVP) of Zambia
  2. Mr.D.Mulenga, National Coordinator, Disaster Mgm't.& MitigationUnit, OVP
  3. Ms. Y. Mwape, HeadResearchandPlanning, DMMU.O W
  4. Mr.J. Shawa, Acting Director Planning, Ministry o f Ag. and Coop
  5. Dr.A. Mwananumo, Executive Director, FoodReserveAgency, GOZ,
  6. Mr.M.Muchinda, Director, MeteorologicalDeparhnent.
  7. Ms. Joyce Muskotwane, District Commissioner, Monze District
  8. Mr.Raphael Mabenga, RuralRoad Maintenance Programme, GOZ
  9. Mr.Davies ZuluRural RoadMaintenance Programme, GOZ
  10. Dr.HydeHaanntuba, Coordinator, The Agricultural Consultative Forum
  11. Mr.Alex Lusaka, PrincipalWater Engineer,DepartmentofWater Affairs, GOZ
  12. Mr.Mwabi, Director, Early Warning Unit,MinistryofAgriculture and Coop.
  13. Mr.Gregory Mwanza, Chief Planner, Min.of Community Dev't. & Social Services
  14. Ms. ChansaMushinge, Representative,Famine EarlyWarning SystemsNetwork
  15. Mr.D.Stevenson, Country Director, WFP
  -16. Dr.Tesfaye Shiferaw, Head, HealthandNutrition, UNICEF
  17. Mr.EddieDelaunay, Food Security Section, E.U
  18. Mr.JanErikStudrod, FirstSecretary, NORAD
  19. Mr.Mususe, Regional Coordinator, PUSH, (NGO)
  20. Mr. PaulKapotwe, Acting Director, ProgramAgainst Malnutrition(NGO)
  21. Mr.MikeField, Chief ofParty, Clusa (NGO)
  22. Mr.C. Mambo, Zambia Social Investment Fund
  23. Mr.PeterCottan, Managing Director, NationalMillingCompany
  24. Mr.John Kunda, Adventist Dev. Relief Agency (NGO)
  25. Ms. KarenBrooks, Sector Manager, Sustainable Development, Africa Region,
   26. Mr. OheneNyanin, Country Manager WB
   27. Mr.Alex Mwanakasale, TTL, EDRP, WB CO.
.  28. Dr.J. Goverah, Food Security ResearchProject
   29. Mr. Frank Byamugisha, Operations Adviser, WB
   30. Mr.Tekola Dejene, LeadOperations Officer, WB.
   31. Mr.Tijan Sallah, LeadOperations Officer, WB.
   32. Mr.PaavoEliste, Economist, WB.
   33. Ms. Mirey Ovadiya, Sr. Operations Officer, WB.


