Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T7559-ZA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.8 MILLION
(US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.2 MILL.4O)N
(US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
October 28, 2002
Rural Development Operations 1
Country Department 3
Afrlca Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate effective as of October 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Zambia kwacha (ZMK)
US$1 =ZMK 4,510
SDR= USD 1.32
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)     =      3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)    =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    =       0.625 miles
I liter    =      0.220 imperial gallons
I cubic meter            220 imperial gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BESSIP        Basic Education Sub-sector Investment Program
CAS           Country assistance strategy
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Report
DMMU          Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit
FAO           Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NDRC          National Disaster and Relief Committee
NGO           Nongovernmental organization
PAM           Program Against Malnutrition
PRSP          Poverty reduction strategy paper
PUSH          Program for Urban Self Help
PWAS          Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
WFP           World Food Program
Vice President:                    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:                  Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:                    Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Task Team Leader:                  Tekola Dejene



THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Emergency Drought Recovery Project
TECHNICAL ANNEX
. Contents
A. Impact of the Disaster .......................................................1
1. Background, circumstances of the disaster and recent developments .....................................1
2.  Causes of the crisis ......................................................1
3. Damage assessment and economic and social impact ....................................................... 2
B. Government's Response .......................................................3
1. Initial response ......................................................3
2. The government's drought mitigation plan ................        ......................................4
3. Govemment's request for World Bank assistance .......................................................4
C. Bank Response and Strategy .......................................................4
1. Proposed Bank response to the govemment's request ....................................................... 4
2. The PRSP framework and emergency assistance .......................................................5
3.  Lessons Learned ......................................................5
4.  Rationale for Bank involvement .......................................................6
D. Emergency Drought Recovery Project .......................................................7
1.  Project objectives ......................................................7
2.  Project description .......................................................7
3. Project cost and financing ......................................................7
4.  Implementation arrangements .......................................................8
5. Financial management and disbursement .......................................................9
6. Procurement ......................................................                            10
7. Project sustainability ......................................................                 15
8.  Environmental and social aspects ......................................................      16
E. Project Benefits and Risks ...................................................... .              16
1. Project benefits ......................................................                       16
2.  Project risks ......................................................                         16
F. Action plan .......................................................                              17
Annexes
Annex 1: Government Drought Management and Mitigation Plan ...................................................... 19
Annex 3: Macroeconomic Impact of Current Food Crisis ....................................... ................. 36
Annex 4: Social Risks and Protection Mechanisms ...................       ..................................... 39
Annex 5. Donor Response to the Emergency Drought .........................     ............................... 46
Annex 6: Logistics of Food Distribution ........................................................       52
Annex 7: World Bank's Support for Drought Mitigation ................................... ..................... 57
Annex 8: Portfolio Assessment - Alignment and Reallocation Options .............................................. 69
Annex 9: Districts and Population in Need of Food Aid ........................................................  71
Annex 10: Key Perfornance Indicators ........................................................ 73
Annex 11: Map ..........;                                              .74






A. IMPACT OF THE DISASTER
1. BACKGROUND, CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE DISASTER AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
1.     Zambia is currently experiencing its second consecutive year of poor harvests, which has led
to severe food shortages. During the 2000/2001 cropping season (December to April), excessive rains
in parts of the country led to flooding that destroyed crops over large areas. Districts in the Eastem
and Southern Provinces along the Zambezi and Luangwa rivers were the most affected. Production of
maize, the staple crop, fell by an estimated 24 percent from the year earlier. During the most recent
2001/02 cropping season, erratic rains and long dry spells during the growing season hit part of the
same districts and several districts in other provinces, resulted in low agricultural output and
exacerbating an already precarious food situation. About 38 of the 73 districts are estimated to be
directly affected by drought, but the hardship arising from this drought will be felt in several other
districts and in urban centers.
2.     Zambia has faced recurring droughts during the last decade, including the severe 1991/92
drought, which affected the whole of southern Africa. A partial drought in 1995 and the el niubo
weather phenomenon in 1998, led to significant shortfalls in production. During the 1991/92 drought,
marketed production from many of the country's best maize-producing areas was the lowest in
recorded memory. The surplus that is normally carried from one season to the next did not exist, nor
was it possible to import significant quantities of maize from other neighboring countries, as they
were all suffering from the same drought. Widespread regional food shortages occurred again during
2001/2002.
3.     Although several factors have contributed to food shortages (including insufficient attention
paid to smallholder agriculture, policies that favor urban businesses over farmers and consumers over
producers, policies that distort prices and interfere with markets, and poor infrastructure), weather-
related factors have been important. Rainfall in Zambia is unimodal, commencing with light rains in
December, gradually diminishing in February and March, and ending in April. District rainfall data
collected over the last thirty years and disaggregated by month shows that rainy seasons have
gradually been starting later and finishing earlier in Zambia, particularly in major maize producing
districts.' The trend of decreasing precipitation is quite apparent for February, March and April.2
Maize in Zambia is most vulnerable to moisture stress from January to March. Thus, low rainfall
during these months can lead to crop failure even when the average annual rainfall is normal. This
3
occurred during the 1991/92 growing season leading to the worst crop failures of the past fifty years.
A similar pattern of erratic rainfall is reported in the current year.
2. CAUSES OF THE CRISIS
4.     Vulnerability to drought and crop failures has increased during the past years in Zambia for a
number of interrelated factors. These include:
HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has significantly increased the number of vulnerable
people. High morbidity and death reduces the rural workforce, leaving farms neglected. The
Kruss, Phillip D. "Drought and Climatic Change in Zambia", draft article, December 1992.
2      Meteorologists working in eastern and southern Africa have shown that precipitation levels throughout
the region declined by about 15 percent prior to the end of the nineteenth century, subsequently showing little
change until about 1960. In Zambia, recent studies indicate that the mean precipitation during the 1980s was
approximately 10 percent lower than during the 1960 and 1970s (Kruss, 1992).
3      The impact of the droughts has been exacerbated by the shift in eating habits of Zambians away from
diversified traditional foods that were grown in micro ecosystems. The shift was essentially completed in the
1970s, with maize then being the staple for the whole country and every farmer trying to grow maize regardless
of the suitability the ecosystem to the maize production.



elderly, orphans, households headed by women, and households with disabled or ill members
that do not receive support from other households are particularly vulnerable.
• Input supply policies. Due to budgetary constraints the government has had increasing
difficulty in delivering fertilizers to farmers. Inputs are either distributed to most farmers
either late or not at all. The private sector has not filled the gap due to inconsistent input
supply policies which have discouraged private sector investment in this area. The reliance
on government for the provision of fertilizer has created a legacy of dependence, which has
proved difficult to remove.
*  Strategic food reserve. Chronic underfunding and inappropriate specification of the scope of
activities of the Food Reserve Agency has prevented the agency from maintaining an
adequate strategic food reserve. The grain reserve stock in warehouses of the Food Reserve
Agency is depleted and needs to be augmented immediately.4
a  Excessive dependence on maize. State support for maize has led to excessive dependence on
maize as a staple food. Smallholder farmers even in areas that are not well suited for maize
cultivation rely on maize for maize for food, increasing their vulnerability to crop failure.
This is gradually changing, but more needs to be done to reduce dependency on one crop for
food.
3. DAMAGE ASSESSMENT AND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT
Economic impact
5.     Due to the extensive crop failures, lack of altemative sources of income, and gaps in the
formal and informal safety nets, approximately 2.9 million people require direct food assistance
monthly through March 2003 when the next crop will be harvested. This is 27 percent of Zambia's
population.
6.     According to the joint FAO/WFP assessment, the shortfall in cereals production (largely
maize) is 635,000 metric tons, which is just 51 percent of Zambia's annual cereal needs. The value of
the shortfall (measured at replacement cost) is approximately US$160 million. The full impact of the
drought is yet to be felt. However, early indications are that the drought will have adverse impact on
economic growth, the exchange rate, inflation, the government budget, and balance of payments. The
most affected groups are smallholder farmers who rely on the food from their farms for subsistence,
and the urban poor who will face higher food prices. The death and sale of livestock and sale of seed
stocks to purchase food will also constrain the ability of vulnerable households to recover from the
drought.
7.     The government has appealed to the international community for assistance to augment the
grain supply, to provide targeted income support to those in need, and to assist in preparing for the
coming agricultural season. According to current estimates, the international community will donate
approximately 175,000 metric tons of food aid, with a value of US$44 million. Private businesses in
Zambia are likely to import significant quantities of food, up to 300,000 metric tons, although orders
have lagged. To date, the government has allocated about US$ 18 million to import about 65,000
metric tons of grain. However, as food shortfalls have increased and the food from intemational
donors and private sector commercial imports has been slow to materialize, the govemment has
increasingly been procuring maize, and has placed an order to purchase another 230,000 metric tons
of grain at a total cost of US$58 million. Because of the shock to the mining sector earlier this year,
4      The Food Reserve Agency was established in 1996 by an act of parliament to maintain a national
strategic food reserve. It has subsequently become a major instrument for public intervention in input and
output markets.
2



the government's ability to address a food crisis of this magnitude is significantly diminished. Hence
additional support is needed.
Social impact
8.     The impact on households from the crop failure is severe. Many smallholder farmers who
grow food for their own consumption and for income are now forced to buy food from market, but
have little income to do so. The urban poor, who in normal years spend up to 60 percent of their
incomes on food can scarcely afford to pay ever higher prices. Thus, households have to make short-
term tradeoffs. Many of these involve households shifting resources from investment intended to
provide long-term benefits to immediate consumption (for example, keeping children out of school so
that they can earn wages or search for food). In addition to its impact on food supplies, the drought
has in the heavily hit districts reduced the quantity of available clean water. In the worst-affected
provinces, acute malnutrition and related illnesses and infections are likely to increase significantly as
people reduce their food intake, ingest contaminated water, and cut back on medical care (which
requires out-of-pocket expenditures).
9.     Central, Eastern, Southern, and Western Provinces, the provinces worst affected by the
drought, account for over 40 percent of the almost 1 million orphans in the country resulting largely
from the HIV/AIDS crisis. The decline in the purchasing power of households in these areas will
make it that much more difficult for families to care for people infected with HIV/AIDS, orphaiis,
widows, and, indeed, all vulnerable people who traditionally rely on family and community social
support networks in times of need. The traditional mutual assistance and family networks were even
in a normal agricultural years grappling with the need to care for an overwhelming number of
orphans. The food shortages this year will increase the number of people needing assistance, while at
the same time reducing the capacity of families and communities to cope.
10.   Moreover, the harvest failures are making worse of an already poor school attendance record
of children from poor and HIV/AIDS-affected families. Even prior to the drought, the national
enrollment rate declined from 85 percent in 1996 to 77 percent in 2001 (Ministry of Education,
Situational Analysis). Enrollment in rural areas is far worse than the national averages, with
attendance in 2001 standing at only 61 percent of eligible children. There are reports that enrollment
in the areas most affected by the drought is down again this year from earlier years.
B. GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE
1. INITIAL RESPONSE
11.   In June 2002, the government declared a national disaster and issued an appeal for
humanitarian aid to enable the country to meet its food needs and to mitigate the impact of the
drought on government operations. The government in close consultation with the UN agencies and
bilateral donors, took a number of initiatives to deal with the crisis. These include: (a) providing food
relief to severely affected households, mainly through the coordinated food aid from the WFP (which
plans to contribute 175,000 metric tons of grain); (b) facilitating commercial maize imports of about
300,000 metric tons; (c) financing government purchases of the remaining balance; (d) distributing
seeds and other agricultural inputs and organizing demonstration and dissemination of drought-
resistant cultivation practices such as conservation farming to restore agricultural production; (e)
providing extension support to affected communities, particularly to mitigate the effects of drought on
livestock; (f) constructing, rehabilitating, and deepening boreholes in drought-affected areas through
donor-assisted schemes, and (g) rehabilitating rural feeder and access roads.
12.   In September 2002, after further reviews the food situation indicated that inflows of food
were less than expected and the population affected greater than expected (2.9 million people
compared with the original estimate of 2.3 million), the government decided to increase its purchases
of maize to 300,000 metric tons (65,000 metric tons are expected to be delivered in October and
3



November 2002, and a new order was placed in September 2002 for 235,000 metric tons for delivery
between December 2002 and April 2003). This is intended to compensate for the likely shortfall in
food aid arising from the government's delay in reaching a decision on whether to use genetically-
modified maize for human consumption, the limited private sector imports to date, and the increased
estimates of the population in need of direct food aid. If the govemment decides to allow use of
genetically-modified maize, it will reduce its imports and probably increase assistance in milling the
genetically-modified maize received through food aid.
2. THE GOVERNMENT'S DROUGHT MITIGATION PLAN
13.    The government in its Drought and Mitigation Plan, October 2002 has articulated its drought
mitigation policies, strategies, and interventions for the short, medium, and long terms. For the
immediate and short terms, the government will target assistance to save lives and economic assets,
particularly of the poor. For the medium term, the government will support farmers in restoring
output in the next cropping season, while continuing to provide targeted safety net measures to assist
Zambia's most vulnerable people. Measures will include securing food supplies and distributing them
to the affected people, providing safe drinking water, distributing agricultural inputs for the next
cropping season, offering animal health services, repairing infrastructure (such as access roads,
bridges, and rail tracks), and refurbishing transport equipment. The government will also continue its
safety net programs. The total cost of implementing the plan is estimated at US$276 million.
14.   To reduce Zambia's vulnerability to drought and other natural disasters and shocks in the
longer term, the government will strengthen the early warning system; build capacity for drought
planning and management; and implement actions to enhance food security and to increase household
incomes, thereby increasing the number of rural households with the capacity to cope in the face of
natural disasters. The government's implementation strategy for the drought recovery and mitigation
effort is built on three pillars: (a) working jointly with the multilateral and bilateral donors, the private
sector, such as the millers, importers/transporters, wholesalers and retailers; (b) deploying
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) jointly with public agencies in implementing programs; and
(c) establishing transparent and accountable arrangements for implementation and oversight at the
national, district, and community levels.
3. GOVERNMENT'S REQUEST FOR WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
15.    On August 13 and August 27, 2002, the government asked the World Bank to provide
emergency assistance for drought recovery. The request is for about US$50 million to finance food
imports needed to meet emergency requirements, measures aimed at helping groups most affected by
drought, and distribution of agricultural inputs for the next crop season.
C. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
1. PROPOSED BANK RESPONSE TO THE GOVERNMENT'S REQUEST
16.    The Bank intends to respond to the govemment request for emergency assistance in two
ways. The first is to assist in meeting immediate needs. This will be done by (a) financing critical
imports of goods and essential commodities and other goods; (b) helping to provide drinking water
supplies, fodder for animals, health services, and the like to people affected by the drought; and (c)
assisting with procurement and distribution of agricultural inputs, rehabilitation of key agricultural
infrastructure, and provision agricultural services needed to restart agriculture.
17.   The second is to support medium and long-term measures to reduce the vulnerability of
people to future natural events. This will be done by supporting the government's efforts to
strengthen its early warning system, build its capacity to manage natural disasters, and enhance its
social safety net system. A proposed Agricultural Development Project (under preparation) will
4



support efforts to diversify rural livelihoods, improve water and soil management, and introduce
drought-resistant technologies and farming practices.
2. THE PRSP FRAMEWORK AND EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE
18.   The basic building blocks of the Bank's CAS for Zambia (IDA/R99-156/1) are removing
constraints for sustainable, diversified growth, improving governance, and increasing basic services
and direct poverty interventions. The objective of the CAS has been to sustain positive growth rates
and show that the economic reforms are beginning to show tangible and measurable benefits for the
poor. The base case program assumed that the copper industry would be privatized and that HIPC
decision point would be reached before the end of the CAS period. These were achieved in the
stipulated time frame. During the same period, the PRSP was presented to the Board and is in its first
year of implementation (IDA/SecM2002-253). For obvious reasons, neither the CAS nor the PRSP
anticipated that a natural disaster on the scale of the 2001/02 drought would occur, and hence did not
present a scenario applicable to coping with the disaster.
19.   Immediately after the joint assessment report (government, United Nations, and NGOs) on
the current food supply situation was issued, the Bank received a request from the government for
emergency assistance. Bank management reviewed the request and authorized the immediate
preparation and appraisal of an emergency drought recovery project. The mission sent to prepare and
appraise a project recommends:
• Redirecting undisbursed funds of up to US$21 million from selected on going IDA operations to
targeted safety net and other rehabilitation activities that are aimed at mitigating the effect of
drought on the most affected population in the immediate and medium-terms.
* Providing quick-disbursing financial assistance of US$50 million to support critical imports,
activities to relieve the suffering of the affected population, initiatives to increase next year's
production (2002/03), and activities complementing the govermment's direct efforts to provide
food and other assistance to the affected population.
* Financing a new agricultural diversification and commercialization project (US$40 million)
through the proposed Agricultural Development Support Project that supports (a) monitoring of
food security and developing the early waming system; (b) productivity enhancing interventions;
and (c) activities to sustainably manage water and soils. These measures will reduce the risks
arising from drought in the long run.
3. LESSONS LEARNED
20.    Lessons learned from previous emergency operations have been taken into account in the
design of the project, and the project preparation/appraisal has benefited from the advice of teams
involved in responding to similar emergencies in other countries. Key lessons reflected in the project
design are:
* Including measures to enhance government's capacity to monitor food security and detect
impending harvest shortfalls, plan effectively to mitigate their impact, and efficiently manage
actions for recovery is very important. Had this been pursued following the last severe drought of
1991/92 the country may have been better able to cope with the current drought. The project
includes measures to strengthen the govemment's early waming system and to improve its
capacity to mitigate and respond to emergencies.
a  Emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable, and not burdened with conditionality.
This project is simple, focuses on supporting activities that are already underway and on
importing key commodities, and includes no policy-oriented conditionalities.
5



*  Interventions shouldfocus on meeting the needs of the most vulnerable groups in society. This
project supports the government's safety net programs.
*  The operation shouldfocus on sectors immediately affected, and not undertake too broad an
agenda of cross-cutting issues. This project is narrow in scope, supporting just critical imports
and government initiatives that are already underway.
*  Commitment and ownership of the borrower are criticalfor successful implementation. This
project responds to the government's direct appeal to the Bank for aid.
* Speed in preparation, appraisal, and implementation are critical elements of success. Preparation
of this project started on Sept 9, 2002. Preparation was completed in two weeks, and the project
was negotiated on October 10, 2002. This compares with the average project preparation time for
Zambia of 18 months. The project's simple, focused design, and its reliance on existing
institutional structures and arrangements for implementation will almost certainly guarantee that
the project is completed within the two years envisaged.
4. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
21.    The proposed emergency support is fully consistent with the Bank Group's overall assistance
strategy for Zambia. It also supports the government's own Drought Recovery and Mitigation Plan,
October 2002, which focuses primarily on immediately providing food and other essential goods and
services to the affected population, as well as helping farmers restore agricultural output in the next
season.
22.    For the Bank and the government, ensuring a stable macroeconomic framework has been a
priority before the emergency and will continue to be so while the government deals with the
economic and social shocks of the drought. Bank's involvement at a time when the country is
experiencing a major drought shock will help the government maintain its key commitments to social
and economic reforms and to the investment priorities that are contained in its PRSP. It will also help
restore the productive capacity of the affected population. The poor will suffer most if the
government is not able to mobilize additional resources to finance essential imports and maintain its
expenditures on social services and infrastructure, which is crucial to reduce poverty over the longer
term. Thus, the Bank's emergency assistance would ensure that essential long-term expenditures are
not compromised while the government makes available food supplies in drought-affected areas and
to the poor. In addition, the Bank's assistance will enable the government to partially mitigate the
income shocks on the vulnerable, to allow them to access food and other essential goods and services
through targeted safety net interventions (such as employment through public works and distribution
of agricultural inputs entailing cash or in-kind income supplements). As part of the discussions on
Bank assistance for drought recovery, the government and the Bank have agreed to complement the
emergency credit with resources from the existing portfolio, to be realigned towards targeted safety
net interventions. The resources from the existing portfolio complement and do not substitute for the
emergency operation because the focus of support and timing of disbursements differ from those of
the emergency credit.
23.    The proposed emergency assistance also responds to the consolidated appeal issued by the
United Nations on behalf of Zambia and supported by bilateral donors and multilateral agencies. In
addition, the Bank has considerable experience in emergency operations, including response to
drought, and will be able to respond quickly under its quick disbursing credit. Moreover, 40 percent
of the assistance will be through an IDA Grant. This response would be part of the overall Bank
effort to provide drought relief in the most affected countries of the southem Africa region.
6



D. EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
24.    The overall objectives of the project are to assist the government in maintaining key
commitments to its economic and investment priorities laid out in the PRSP, and to help restore
productive capability of the affected population. It is aimed at helping the government to respond
effectively to the current drought, and to supplement government's effort and resources: (a) to prevent
starvation and malnutrition in the affected human population; (b) to support other identified drought
mitigation measures such as providing drinking water, improving critical transport and logistics links,
supporting health and sanitation services, providing support to keep children in school, protecting the
threatened livestock population; (c) to support farmers to raise crops in the next agricultural season;
and (d) to enhance government capacity for longer-term disaster management, including through
support for developing an effective early waming system.
2.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION
25.    The proposed operation comprises four components:
(a)    Quick-disbursing assistance to finance a positive list of imports. The positive list of imports
will include (i) machinery and equipment; (ii) agricultural inputs; (iii) petroleum products; (iv)
construction materials; (v) transport vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles; (vi) livestock and animal health
products and veterinary supplies and equipment; (vii) school supplies and equipment; (viii) medical
supplies and equipment. In aggregate, the imports financed under the fast-disbursing component
would be used to help restore agricultural production, improve access of rural people to markets and
services through repair and improvement of rural roads and bridges, and help maintain educational
and medical services.
(b)    Safety net interventions aimed at improving access to markets and services by vulnerable
groups (public works). The government intends to provide employment and improve access to
markets by expanding its public works programs under ongoing projects such as the Road Sector
Investment Program, and to invest in removing critical transport bottlenecks. The project will support
this effort.
(c)    Distribution of a package of agricultural inputs and technologies (production rehabilitation)
for the next cropping season to households severely affected by drought. Farmers who cultivate less
than a hectare of land, lost their crop to drought, lost their cattle and draft animals, households with
HIV/AIDS patients and who support orphans and the handicapped, child-headed households, and
women-headed households will benefit from this intervention.
(d)    Improving early warning system and disaster management and mitigation capacity of the
government through technical assistance, training, and studies.
3. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
26     The size of the proposed credit and grant of US$50 million is based on the govemment
request for emergency assistance and the assessment of the mitigation program and foreign exchange
requirements. The proposed credit would finance 100 percent of the delivered cost of eligible imports
on the positive list, excluding import duties and taxes, and 100 percent of the cost of consulting
services to support project implementation.
7



Table 1 Project costs and financing
Cost      percent of   Credit     Grant
IDA             T
Component                            US$ millions  Contribution    US$ millions
A. Quick-disbursing assistance to          35,000   100 percent  15,000      20,000
finance imports
B. Social safety nets                       7,000   100 percent   7,000
C. Agricultural inputs and technologies     7,000   100 percent   7,000
D. Imporving early waming system and        1,000   100 percent   1,000
disaster management and mitigation
Total project costs                        50,000                30,000      20,000
4.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
27.    Project implementation period. The project will be implemented over a period of 24 months
from November 2002 to November 2004.
28.    Project organization and management. The Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit
(DMMU) of the Office of the Vice President will be responsible for project implementation and
coordination. The DMMU is the government's arm for disaster management and mitigation planning,
and is backed up by a structured oversight mechanism for policy, program review, and coordination.
At the apex, is a cabinet committee, the National Disaster and Relief Committee (NDRC), chaired by
the vice president. The NDRC is served by (a) a technical committee that comprises the permanent
secretaries of the concerned ministries, and (b) a joint steering committee (being established)
consisting of the key government ministries and agencies, the concerned UN agencies, key NGOs,
and selected private sector organizations. The joint steering committee acts as a forum for
information sharing, periodic consultation, coordination, and oversight of the disaster mitigation
program. It also makes recommendations for the consideration of the NDRC.
29.    At the provincial level, implementation of the disaster relief program is overseen by
provincial disaster management committees, and at the district level by district disaster management
committees. Prominent NGOs, other local stakeholders, and the private sector are represented on
these committees. The participatory and representative character of the institutional arrangements for
drought mitigation and management continues down to the community level. Here satellite
committees, called community welfare assistance committees, participate in drought mitigation
planning and management activities. These include carrying out household surveys, preparing
beneficiary lists, determining household food gap and relief food entitlements, and overseeing food
and other relief distribution by the field implementing agencies (generally the NGOs). The
committees comprise community elders and other community representatives.
30.    The DMMU and the World Food Program, which share tasks related to the distribution of
relief food, have engaged nearly 29 NGOs to distribute food and to manage the food-for-work
programs approved for the area. Through these mechanisms, the government has been able to
establish a fairly transparent and accountable arrangement for program administration, which is
considered satisfactory for implementing the initiatives supported by the proposed project.
31     Under the proposed project, support has been provided (a) to strengthen the DMMU by
recruiting key specialists who would assist the DMMU in the short term to implement a time bound
program under a quick disbursing credit, and provide training to the local government staff to build its
capacity; and (b) to catalyze the development of government capacity in the long term to handle
droughts and famines and other disasters. The support for the long-term measures includes: (a)
strengthening the capacity of the national meteorology office's for data analysis and forecasting; (b)
providing technical assistance for streamlining and strengthening the institutional and organizational
8



arrangements for early waming; (c) reviewing and finalizing government's disaster mitigation and
management policy; (d) preparing a national drought and famine code; and (e) strengthening data
collection, monitoring, and dissemination systems in the key government agencies. Studies carried
out as part of these activities will make recommendations of investments to improve and strengthen
the system over time. The government has agreed to implement the recommendations under ongoing
and proposed investment operations supported by the World Bank and other donors.
5. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
32.    Financial management. The financial management capacity of the DMMU was assessed and
found to be inadequate under the existing arrangements. This is especially due to DMMU not having
an in-house accounting unit. Consequently, it is proposed that DMMU establish an accounting unit to
be headed by a qualified and experienced financial management consultant. The financial
management consultant will be expected to design a flexible financial management system that is able
to record, account for, and report on a timely basis all transactions through the Special Accounts.
Monthly and quarterly financial monitoring reports will be produced. The reports will include
financial statements with statement of sources and use of funds, uses of funds by components and
activities and disbursement categories; and physical progress reports in relation to the performance
indicators previously set. The records, accounts, and financial statements of the project will be
subject to an annual external audit in accordance with the terms of reference and by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Furthermore, the government intemal audit will be effectively utilized in
carrying out physical progress monitoring of activities (including the distribution of agricultural
technology packs to vulnerable farmers, and the physical progress of the public works component) in
addition to their internal audit reviews of all documentation and compliance with the legal agreements
for all expenditures relating to the project.
33.    Disbursements. The DMMU will operate two Special Accounts under the credit and one
Special Account under the grant. The Bank of Zambia will maintain one Special Account each under
the credit and grant through a reputable international bank to handle imports by both the private and
public sectors. The DMMU will enter into an agreement with the Bank of Zambia, which will set the
responsibilities and modalities of how the Special Account will be operated. The second Special
Account under the credit will be established and maintained in a comnmercial bank acceptable to IDA
and will serve other investment operations, such as the safety net, agricultural inputs and capacity
building interventions. In addition, DMMU will maintain a Kwacha denominated Project Account in
a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to hold Government's counterpart fund contributions under the
credit. Government will make an initial deposit of US$100,000 equivalent into the Project Account to
finance Government's contribution to the project, and replenish the Account thereafter and not later
than February 28, 2003 with US$382,000 equivalent. The amounts deposited into the Project
Account will be used to finance eligible expenditures under the project.
34.    Disbursements will be done using statement of expenditure (SOE) procedures for those
expenditures that are below the SOE threshold. The DMMU will initiate the withdrawal applications
for the initial deposits to the Special Accounts. The signing arrangements will be on a two-panel
basis. Panel A will consist of accounting staff, and panel B will comprise DMMU management.
Release of funds will require one signature from each panel. All bank accounts will be reconciled
monthly, and identified differences will be expeditiously investigated.
35.    External audit. Audited financial statements for the credit and grant will be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the financial year-end. The audit will be carried out by suitably
qualified auditors appointed under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
36.    Retroactivefinancing. As perrnitted in OP 8.50 on emergency recovery assistance,
retroactive financing in the amount of US$ 10 million equivalent, 20 percent of the credit and grant
amount, will be provided to finance eligible expenditures of the private and public sector for imports
9



incurred not earlier than four months before signing of the Development Credit Agreement and the
Development Grant Agreement.
37.    Grant funding: Zambia qualifies for grant funding under IDA 13 Replenishment Agreement
approved on July 25, 2002. Therefore, US$20 million will be provided as a grant, which will be
about 40 percent of the Emergency Recovery Assistance.
Table 2. Cost Summary and Financing
Credit and Grant
(US$ Million)
Required
Component (Category)     Total  Foreign    Percent    Local     Percent   Counterpart
IDA                 IDA        Funding
financing           Financing
A. Quick Disbursing Import    35        35         100       0                         0
B. Safety net (public works)  7.00                          7.0                      0.3
Subcontracting to NRB     0.7                           0.7         100
NRB payment to NGOs for   6.0                           6.0          95           0.3
works
C. Agricultural inputs pack  7.00      3.3         100      3.7                      0.16
(production rehabilitation)
Sub contract to NGOs      0.7                           0.7         100
NGOs procurement and      5.8       3.3         100     2.5          95         0.130
distribution of inputs
Operating cost for animal  0.5                          0.5          95         0.030
health
D. Project Management and   1.00      0.25                 0.75                     0.022
Capacity Building
Consultancy               0.3       0.1         100     0.2         100
Training                  0.1                   100      0.1        100
Equipment & Vehicle      0.3       0.15         100     0.15         95         0.007
Operating Cost            0.3                           0.3          95         0.015
TOTAL                      50.00      38.25               11.75                     0.480
6. PROCUREMENT
38.    Procurement of Goods, Works and Commodities in the positive list will be governed by the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard Bid Evaluation Forms will be used. However, for the quick
disbursement component, the currency provisions in the SBDs will be suitably amended to make them
more responsive and consistent with standard practice in intemational trade.
39.    Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 and May 2002. The
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used for Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
and Standard Forms of Contract as needed (lump-sum, time-based, and/or simplified contracts for
short-term assignments and individual consultants) and also the Sample Form of Evaluation Report
for the Selection of Consultants.
10



40.    Importsfor retroactivefinancing. The Zambia market structure is unique in the following
way: (a) most imports are from manufacturers in South Africa, (b) imports are controlled by parent
companies based in South Africa, and (c) most equipment importers are agents of specific
manufacturers of equipment. This structure does not appear to easily lend itself to competition raising
a major issue in the eligibility of such imports for financing under the project. The issue of market
structure in Zambia coupled with recent structural changes in the petroleum sector made it difficult for
the mission to determine eligibility of recent imports for retroactive financing. The largest recent
single import has been crude oil but there was no information on the process used by the govemment
to decide on the company that imported the latest consignment of crude oil. For crude oil to be
financed under this credit in future the importer must have been selected on the basis of open
competitive bidding. The govemment is now adjudicating (September 2002) a tender for importation
of 900,000 metric tons of crude oil and such supply may be eligible for financing under the credit and
grant. The next major recent import has been petroleum products by the oil marketing companies.
The oil marketing companies import from their parent companies in South Africa who must have
imported the crude oil in bulk on the basis of intemational commodity prices. It is therefore assumed
that sound commercial practices were used by the parent companies and therefore for retroactive
financing purposes these products would be eligible. In addition, since there is price competition at
the pump, it is in the best interest of each company to import the products at most competitive prices.
Other imports considered eligible for retroactive financing are fertilizer inputs (imported by Nitrogen
Chemicals), urea (imported by Nitrogen Chemicals, Omnia and Sasol), pharmaceuticals (imported by
Gamma Pharmaceuticals) and school supplies (imported by Sobi Industries). The following is a
proposed allocation of the US$10.0 rnillion (20 percent of the credit and grant).
Petroleum Products  -      US$5.0 million
School Supplies     -      US$1.0 million
Fertilizer inputs   -      US$1.0 million
Urea                -      US$2.0 million
Pharmaceuticals     -      US$ 1.0 million.
41.   Institutional arrangements. The DMMU shall be the main executing agency. The team
executing the project, comprising a coordinator, an accountant, a procurement expert, and a logistics
expert will work in close collaboration with the staff of the logistics and operations section of the
DMMU, and report to the national coordinator. The staff will be engaged through a competitive
process by advertising the positions in a widely circulated national paper. The DMMU shall prepare
the terms of reference for all the positions and immediately start the recruitment process. The DMMU
has a tender committee with members from the Zambia National Tender Board, the DMMU
(secretariat), the Ministry of Finance and National Planning, and the Ministry of Works and Supply.
Due to the emergency nature of the operation, the Zambia National Tender Board has delegated
authority to the tender committee to approve and award contracts. Further, the DMMU has the
mandate to appoint members to the tender committee from the various ministries depending on the
nature of the procurement
42.    Procurement capacity. A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is currently
being undertaken in Zambia to review the ongoing Public Procurement Reforms as recommended in
the 1997 CPAR. The main objective of the review has been to assess the implementation of the 1997
CPAR action plan. The main recommendations were (a) to decentralize of the procurement function
to procurement units in the ministries, (b) to establish a cadre of professional procurement staff and
supporting training institutions in training, (c) to strengthen the audit and oversight function of the
Zambia National Tender Board, (d) to create the advisory council, and (e) to revise the Tender Board
Act. The CPAR exercise has concluded that the rate of progress of the implementation of the 1997
CPAR action plan has been very slow with only six ministries being decentralized and the Zambia
National Tender Board still undertaking the procurement function with very minimal oversight
activities. Further, there has been professional procurement training carried out but the professional
procurement cadre has yet to be established. New guidelines and regulations have been developed
and are in use, but there is need for revisions to be carried out. The need to undertake a review and
11



amendment to the current legislation has also been recommended. There are proposals to establish a
Zambia national procurement authority and an independent complaints body. There has been
recognition of the need to build on to the achievements attained so far to ensure the implementation of
the procurement reforms in Zambia is completed. The findings of the 2002 CPAR are yet to be
presented to the cabinet for approval.
43.    A procurement capacity assessment was undertaken of the DMMU in accordance with
OPCPR instructions of July 15, 2002. Though DMMU has been handling disaster operations on
behalf of government, the institution has no previous experience in implementing an operation of this
magnitude and involving the number of agencies being proposed for this credit. In addition, DMMU
has no experience of implementing a Bank financed project. Currently, the section in DMMU that
will be responsible for implementing the Emergency Drought Recovery project is understaffed with
only one member of staff in the section while the rest of the positions in the establishment have not
been filled yet. The lack of procurement capacity at the DMMU is one of the most important issue in
this project. To mitigate the risk, DMMU is planning to employ two procurement experts. The first
expert will be employed as a regular DMMU staff to fill a procurement position in the DMMU and
will be financed by the govemment. The second expert will be a consultant who will work on the
project in collaboration with the DMMU procurement staff. This consultant will be familiar with
Bank procurement policies and procedures and specific knowledge in the procurement of
commodities will be an advantage. Employment of these two experts is critical to the success of the
project.
44.    For the safety net component (component b) the National Roads Board (NRB) has been
implementing community based civil works projects under Bank financed projects and has
procedures, which have been approved by the Bank. The current project has been implemented on the
basis of community identification of scope of work and community contribution of specific
percentage of inputs, but in this project the Public Works Program shall be implemented on the basis
of cash for work with no requirement for contribution from the communities. The communities shall
provide the unskilled labor for the civil works and be paid cash. A new selection criteria has been
developed and the scope of works and sites will be based on a pre-determined and targeted areas in
the 38 beneficiary districts as identified by the NRB through the districts. NRB already has a list of
the subprojects to be undertaken from the Feeder Roads Project in the Ministry of Local Govenmment
and Housing and the tendering process for the selection of the contractors has progressed to the award
of contract stage.
45.    Procurement plans. The DMMU will procure some of the items contained in the positive list:
some goods (computers, fumiture and vehicles), civil works, technology packs, consultancy services
and training. The DMMU shall be responsible for preparing the consolidated procurement plan for all
the components. The procurement plans will show the step-by-step procedures and processing times
for procurement including: contract packages for goods, works, consultant services and training;
estimated cost; procurement/selection method; bidding, evaluation and contract award; the activities
which follow contract signature such as manufacture, shipment, delivery and installation of goods;
mobilization, construction and completion of works. Considering the short duration of the project, the
procurement plans will be reviewed quarterly.
46.    Procurement methods. The procurement methods to be used are presented in Table A below.
47.    QUICK-DISBURSING ASSISTANCE (component a). The quick-disbursing assistance is
composed of US$10.0 million for retroactive financing and US$25.0 million for future procurement.
Both private and public sectors will benefit from the quick-disbursement assistance, but for eligibility
the procurement arrangements will be slightly different.
48.    Private Sector Procurement. Procurement of all commodities may be done in accordance
with clause 2.65 of the Guidelines. For all non-commodity items in the positive list, modified
intemational competitive bidding will be used for all contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 or more
12



per contract. Contracts for non-commodity items estimated to cost less than US$500,000 per contract
may be procured using commercial practices acceptable to the Bank
49.    Public Sector Procurement. Modified ICB procedures will be used for contracts estimated to
cost US$150,000 or more while international shopping will be employed for contracts estimated to
cost less than US$150,000. All contracts above US$150,000 will be subject to prior review.
50.    SAFETY NET INTERvENTioNs (component b). The procurement arrangements defined in
NRB's operational manual will be revised to include the cash for work criteria, guidelines, procedures
and implementation arrangements to be used by the EDRC. These arrangements will be agreed with
the Bank.
51.    DISTRIBUTION OF A PACKAGE OF AGRICULTURAL INPUTS AND TECHNOLOGIES (component c).
For the technology pack, DMMU will contract three or four NGOs to supply farm inputs to farmers in
four zones. The NGOs will be selected through National Competitive Bidding using the following
process. The DMMU will first divide the drought-affected districts into three or four different
geographic zones with each zone having a given number of farmers to be served. A pre-qualification
exercise will be carried out to determine qualified NGOs to supply and distribute the packs. The pre-
qualification process will involve inviting applications from NGOs through advertising in at least two
local papers of wide national circulation. Because of the urgency, the NGOs will be given two weeks
to prepare their applications. The DMMU, with the assistance of other stakeholders, will evaluate the
applications and decide on the qualified NGOs. The pre-qualified NGOs will then be asked to quote
for the supply and distribution of the technology pack to the given number of farners in each zone.
The bidding document would stipulate that contracts will be awarded based on the capacity and
experience of the pre-qualified NGOs. Such capacity will be verified both at the time of pre-
qualification and at the of bidding based on information submitted and physical verification, where
required. In other words, NGOs will be pre-qualified for one or more zones depending on their
capacity and experience, which will again be verified at the time of evaluation of bids and prior to
contract award.
52.   IMPROVING EARLY WARNING SYSTEM AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION
CAPACrIY (component d). For goods (vehicles, furniture and computers) all contracts estimated to
cost more than US$150,000 per contract will be procured through ICB. Contracts estimated to cost
less than US$150,000 will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 may be procured
through national shopping. All the ICB contracts will be subject to Bankes prior review. Works
contracts estimnated to cost more than US$50,000 but less than US$500,000 shall be procured through
NCB. For works contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or less, the contracts shall be procured under
lump sum fixed price contracts on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, basic form of agreement acceptable to
IDA and relevant drawings where applicable. The award will be made to the contractor who offers
the lowest price quotation for the work provided they demonstrate that they have the experience and
resources.
53     Consultancy services. Consultancy services, for firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more
will be procured through the QCBS selection method. Consultancy contracts for firms estimated to
cost less than US$ 100,000 will be procured through the Consultants Qualifications method.
Consultancy services for financial audits and external evaluations will be procured through least-cost
selection method. Consultancy services that meet the requirements of paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines may be procured through single-source selection method with the prior
approval of IDA. Individual consultants will be selected on the basis of their qualifications in
accordance with Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
13



54.    Procurement monitoring. During project implementation, the DMMU will provide quarterly
reports on progress of procurement highlighting difficulties encountered in the past, and how they
would be addressed in the future to ensure timely project completion. There will be procurement
supervision every six months, which will include special procurement supervision for post-
review/audits. During these missions, IDA will review one in five randomly selected contracts, which
are below the prior review thresholds specified above.
55.    Prior review thresholds. Prior review thresholds are presented in Table B. The threshold for
prior review for all the items under the quick disbursement component will be US$500,000 or more
for the private sector. Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$150,000 or more under the DMMU
component will be subject to prior review.
56.    All works contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 or more will be subject to prior review by
IDA.
57     Contracts for consultant services estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more for firms and
US$50,000 or more for individual consultants will be subject to prior review by IDA. Terms of
reference and Single Source Selection for all consultant services will require prior review by IDA
regardless of the contract value.
58.    These prior review thresholds may be updated after the first year of the project based on
satisfactory project performance.
Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Modified
Expenditure Category    ICB      ICB/Commodities/     NCB     Other   Total Cost
Commercial Practice
1. Quick                0.00            35.00         0.00     0.00      35.00
Disbursement                           (35.00)                          (35.00)
2. Public Works         0.00            0.00           0.00    6.30       6.30
(6.30)    (6.30)
3. Goods including      0.00            0.00           6.1     0.00       6.1
Technology Pack                                       (6.1)    (0.00)    (6.1)
4. Consultancy          0.00            0.00           0.00     1.8       1.8
Services and                                                (1.8)     (1.8)
Training
5. Operating Costs      0.00            0.00           0.00    0.80       0.80
(0.8)    (0.80)
Total                                35.00          6.1     8.90      50.00
(35.00)        (6.1)    (8.90)   (50.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the credit and grant. All costs include
contingencies.
14



Table 4: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                             Contract subject
Expenditure Category       Thresholds      Procurement Method       To Prior Review
(US$)                                      (US$)
Quick Disbursement
Component
(a) Commodities including   > 500,000        Clause 2.65 of the      All
imports of petroleum and Fuel                Gieie
iporucts oPretrolmand Fuel                   Commercial Practice     None - Post Review
products (Private companies)  < 500,000
(b) Non-Commodities imports  2 500,000       Modified ICB            All
under the positive          < 500,000        Commercial Practice     None - Post Review
list (Private companies)
(c) Imports by Public Sector  <150,000      Interational Shopping    150,000
Public Works Component      All              According to NRB's      According to
(NRB)                                        Operational Manual      NRB's Operational
Manual
DMMU Component
(a) Goods                   > 150,00         ICB                     All
< 150,000        NCB                     None - Post Review
< 50,000         National Shopping       None - Post Review
(b) Works                   > 250,000       ICB                      All
>50,000, and
<250,000         NCB                     All
<50,000          Minor works             Post Review
(c) Consultant services by  Ž100,000         QCBS                    All
firms                       < 100,000        Consultants Qualifications  None - Post Review
Consultant services by      > 50,000         Individual Qualifications  None Post Review
Individuals                 < 50,000         Individual Qualifications  None Post Review
50,000
None - Post Review
Firms and Individuals       All              Single Source           All
7. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
59.    The proposed project is an emergency operation but it also contains measures to strengthen
the capacity of the country to cope with natural events over the medium and long terms. It will assist
the government to strengthen its early waming system, to establish effective drought management
arrangements, and to develop a cohesive and responsive longer-term safety net framework (at the
central and the district govemment levels). Appropriate plans will be drawn up for capacity building
in the govemment and other cooperating institutions. This will create in the long term appropriate
capacity in the government to address natural events such as periodic droughts and floods, as well as
other economic shocks.
15



60.    Currently under preparation is a Bank-supported agricultural sector development program for
Zambia, which is being framed within the context of the PRSP, and which focuses on the critical role
that agriculture must play in pro-poor sustainable development and growth. This project will assist
the government in implementing medium and long-term measures to diversify agriculture, increase
access to inputs, improve market infrastructure and information, encourage more reliable and
ecologically sustainable agricultural practices, encourage more sustainable alternative land uses, and
reduce dependence on livelihoods vulnerable to drought, such as farming with traditional crops. It
will promote demand-based technology generation, and build capacity of the private sector and of
NGOs to effectively deliver key services in rural areas. These measures are expected to enhance food
security, increase incomes and reduce poverty, and thereby increase the number of rural households
that can cope with stressful natural events. The proposed emergency project fits well within a series
of initiatives planned or under implementation that are designed to promote household food security,
enhance welfare, and strengthen household capacity to face droughts. In addition, the emergency
operation will support social safety net operations through either existing or enhanced mechanisms.
These interventions are expected to be scaled down at the end of their implementation period once
food production returns to normal. The longer-term objective is to strengthen the nation's social
safety net system, to enable the government to respond rapidly to people's needs during emergencies,
while continuing to assist the most vulnerable during normal times.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
61.    There are no significant environmental issues arising from this project. The rural roads
interventions, which are mainly spot improvements within existing rights of way, have triggered
safeguard policies and the operation is classified as Category B. Therefore, the operation will have its
own environmental and social assessment framework, and a resettlement policy framework. These
will provide the basis, mechanisms, and guidelines for screening, assessment, and mitigation
measures to be applied during implementation.
E. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
1. PROJECT BENEFITS
62.    Major benefits expected to accrue from the project are: (a) increased likelihood that the
government will be able to prevent deaths and illness from the present food shortages; (b) ability to
maintain investments in health and education which are critical to longer-term poverty reduction; (c)
enhanced capacity for the most vulnerable groups to access goods and services by providing
temporary employment and income supplements though public works and other targeted
interventions; and (d) improved access to services, inputs, and markets in rural areas; and (e)
strengthened early warning system and enhanced capacity for disaster management in the future. The
project will complement the assistance provided by other donors and agencies and act as a catalyst for
additional assistance.
2. PROJECT RISKS
63.    The operation faces several risks. Delays may occur in delivery of the humanitarian
assistance pledged by donors. The current debate on genetically-modified food may reduce the
amount of food aid that can be delivered and made available in the country. Transporting and
distributing food to remote areas of the country may prove difficult. So far, the amount of food aid
and commercial imports has been very limited and the additional food requirement has to be imported
in a period of three to four months, if starvation is to be avoided. In the event of late orders or
logistical bottlenecks, a large number of Zambians may be severely impacted by the effect of drought
despite the best efforts of all parties concerned. To mitigate this risk, the Bank will provide support to
the government to facilitate delivery of essential commodities to the affected population and to
strengthen the DMMU with a qualified and experienced logistics manager. Moreover, a condition of
16



effectiveness is that the government establishes a comrnittee consisting of all the key donors to
coordinate, monitor, and report on pledges, shipments, movement of food and supplies, and
distribution to beneficiaries.
64.    Lack of transparency and mismanagement of relief food is also a risk. This risk will be
minimized by establishing effective mechanisms for reporting, monitoring, and auditing; consulting
with and involving communities in the operation; and providing regular public information. The
effective operation of the joint steering committee and the strengthened the DMMU will minimize a
further risk of fragmentation and insufficient coordination by the various actors.
65.    Low local capacity for management may also hinder operations. Involving NGOs and
communities in implementing the project will minimize this risk.
66.    A final risk relates to the danger of reverting to the "business as usual" once the crisis abates,
without putting into place strengthened capacity to forecast and to manage future crises. This risk is
being addressed by strengthening the goverrnent's early warning system and capacity for disaster
management. Weather patterns are unpredictable, and there is no guarantee that adverse condition
will not persist next year. Thus, the present operation will enhance govermment's capacity to
recognize problems as they develop and to respond appropriately.
F. ACTION PLAN
The government's Drought Management and Mitigation Plan is attached as Annex 1. This discusses
policies, strategies and specific interventions.
17



ii
REPUSLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE & NATIONAL PLANNING
OP VFICE OF THE MINISTER
MFAU/102/1 1/273
October 22, 2002
Mr Yaw Ansu
Country Director for Zambia
World Bank
1818 H Street
WASHINGTON D C 20433
United States of America
EMERGENCY DROUGHT MITIGATION PLAN
As you are aware from my earlier correspondence seeking IDA's assistance towards
mitigating the effects of the drought which has gripped Zambia, it is absolutely necessary
to have a Plan of the measures to address these effects.
We intend to address the drought situation at three levels namely the immediate and
short-term by targeting to save life, particularly of the poor and economic assets such as
livestock; the medium-term by targeting capacity of the poor to produce adequate food
for themselves during the next coming season which starts in December and in the long-
term by creating planning and management capacity to effectively handle future natural
disasters and other shocks.
Our implementing strategy for the drought recovery and mitigation effort is pillared on (i)
involvement of donors willing to participate and the private sector such as the millers
importers/transporters, wholesalers and retailers; (ii) deploying mainly non-governmental
agencies in implementing the programme on the ground and (iii) establishing transparent
and accountable systems for implementation and oversight at the community, district
and national levels.
Find attached hereto the government's Emergency Drought Mitigation Plan.
Yours sincerely
Emmanuel G Kaso{de, MP
MINISTER
Attach.
18



Annex 1: Government Drought Management and Mitigation Plan
Policy, Strategy and Interventions
Background
Arising mainly from adverse weather conditions that prevailed during the last two successive
agricultural seasons (2000/01, 2001/02) Zambia is in the grip of a food crisis, and approaching famine
conditions, principally in five of its nine provinces (Southern, Eastern, Lusaka, Central and Western)
affecting some 2.9 million people. Among these, about one million people in vulnerable groups such
as households headed by elderly, women and children; disabled and chronically ill; widows not
supported by other households; orphans; and people living with HIV/AIDS are at greater risk.
Therefore, under threat are the national and household food security as a result of 51 percent decline
in national maize production; low levels in the quantity and quality of potable water for humans and
livestock which would result in poor sanitation and could cause outbreak of epidemics such as
cholera, diarrhea, measles; and further worsening of the already poor nutritional status in Zambia
(stunting in children aged 5 and below 53 percent, underweight at 24 percent and wasting at 5
percent) leading to higher mortality. The drought threatens, not only the country's population, but
also its economy and would negatively impact on Govemment programs for growth and poverty
alleviation.
In May 2002, the Govemment declared the food emergency in the country as a national disaster and
issued an appeal for humanitarian aid. At the same time, a number of other initiatives were taken to
deal with the crisis, which include, (i) provision of food relief to severely affected households; (ii)
facilitation of private sector maize import; (iii) financing part of the purchase of strategic food
reserves; (iv) construction and rehabilitation of drinking water systems in drought affected areas; (v)
rehabilitation of rural feeder/access roads, and (vi) promoting food-for-works programs to augment
the income of vulnerable groups.
The UN system also launched its Consolidated Appeal on July 17, 2002. FAO, UNDP, UNICEF,
UNFPA, and WFP will assist emergency relief operations. In addition, bilateral and a number of
national and international NGOs have become key partners in this effort. Priority actions planned as
emergency response include provision of adequate food relief; access to water, health and nutrition;
education; safety net programs aimed at vulnerable groups; seed distribution; and promotion of
conservation farming practices. The countries and groups that have pledged their support so far for
these initiatives include USA, Netherlands, UK, Germany, Japan, and the European Union.
Meeting the Challenges of Drought
The Government intends to address the drought situation at three stages-the immediate and short term,
which would be targeted at saving lives and economic assets, particularly of the poor, such as
livestock; the medium term measures that ensure adequate agricultural production in the next cropping
season so that impact of the drought does not extend beyond the next harvesting season; and the long
term measures, which would include the Government's drought planning and management capacity to
handle natural disasters and other shocks effectively in future. The long-term measures would include
interventions under the proposed World Bank -supported Agricultural Development Support Project,
and other donor supported projects, which are expected to enhance food security, increase incomes
and reduce poverty, and thereby enlarge the number of rural households with a better coping capacity
in the face of natural disasters. The Government's implementation strategy for the drought recovery
and mitigation effort is built on three pillars. The first is to work jointly with the multilateral and
bilateral donors, the private sector such as the millers, importers/transporters, wholesalers and
retailers; the second is to deploy mainly the non-Governmental agencies in implementing the
programs on the ground; and the third is to establish transparent and accountable arrangements for
implementation and oversight at the national, district and community levels.
19



Strategic and Immediate Government Actions
1. Emergency Food Supply
Zambia's estimated total maize production during the 2001/02 agricultural season is 51 percent below
the last normal annual crop, thus giving a food deficit of about 634, 000 metric tons. The Govemment
assessed the specific food needs of the affected populations in the 38 districts through vulnerability
assessment and mapping exercises undertaken jointly with the UN agencies and the NGOs following
the May 02 crop forecast. The communities through their local committees were closely associated
with the food assessment, and in preparing the household need list which would be the basis for food
distribution.
Taking cognizance of this situation, the Govemment has arranged to secure food supplies through the
private sector, bilateral donor assistance, WFP, and through Govenmment's own budgetary resources.
In the light of donor pledges and deliveries of relief food to date, lagging private sector imports and
increase in the estimate of the population that will be affected by the drought, the Govemment has
estimated that it may need to procure as much as 300,000 metric tons on its own account. The
Govermment has awarded contracts for importing 300,000 metric tons of maize, of which 65,000
metric tons is arriving in October/November 2003 and the balance would follow in subsequent
months. This will meet the food relief requirement, which donors and WFP may fail to deliver, and
the private sector is expected to import the balance 300,000 metric tons as agreed with millers in early
July 2002. Depending on the amount of food aid received for relief purposes, govemment purchased
maize would be used to replenish the strategic food reserve.
2. Food Distribution Policies and Mechanisms.
The Government food procurement and distribution policy and program is govemed by the following
key principles: transparency and efficiency in government purchase of food items and other items
procured for drought mitigation; food pricing polices that are non-distortionary and consistent with
the price and market liberalization policy; reaching the vulnerable groups affected by the drought;
removing transport bottlenecks that would prevent the flow of food to vulnerable groups; monitoring
the food situation and the implementation of the mitigation plan.
Transparency and Efficiency of Procurement. The Govemment is committed to ensuring
transparency in the procurement of food and other drought mitigation items, and will strictly follow
the Govemment procurement procedures or intemationally acceptable commercial practices. Where
donor funds are involved, Govemment will use procurement guidelines acceptable to the respective
donors. In addition to price factors, timeliness of delivery and product quality will influence decision
regarding selection of suppliers in this time of emergency. Govemment is committed to full
disclosures and audits of public sector transactions.
Food Pricing Policy. Zambia's agricultural product markets and prices are fully liberalized and it is
the Govemment's policy and intention to avoid interventions that have the potential to distort markets
and prices. Three modes of food distribution will be implemented to mitigate the drought. The first is
commercial maize distribution where the consumer pays market prices for food. This is a
predominant food distribution mechanism and the govermnent will further create an environment
conducive for its efficient performance. The second is distribution of relief food at no cost to
individuals and households that meet certain eligibility criteria (See Attachment I for selection
criteria). The third is thorough public works program  where individuals and households would
participate in the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and other infrastructure in return for
payments in cash or in kind (food), to augment incomes of vulnerable groups. The agency that
implements the food for work program buys the food at market prices, or it could be food designated
for relief purposes, and the cash paid is used to buy food at market prices.
20



Reaching the Vulnerable Groups. The Disaster Mitigation and Management Unit (DMMU) under the
Office of the Vice President currently performs the function of delivering food relief to the vulnerable
groups. It works very closely with UN organizations, particularly WFP, in the distribution of relief
food. With the assistance of the District Disaster Relief Committees (DDRC) and the community -
level relief committees called Satellite Committees the DMMU conducts the household food survey
and compiles the household food requirements aggregated to district, regional, and national level, and
these form the basis of food supply planning, procurement and distribution. The information thus
compiled is then validated through an arrangement of scrutiny by a national joint team consisting of
the key Govemment ministries/agencies, the UN System such as the WFP, FAO and the prominent
NGOs. The available food aid is provided to households based on a combination of geographic
targeting (districts where production shortfalls were highest) and key indicator-based targeting.
Targeting criteria for households include: female headed households; child headed households;
households headed by the disabled; households supporting orphans; households with HIV/AIDS
patients; and households with less that one hectare of land to cultivate. The most vulnerable groups
are placed on a separate list and provided with free food rations (about 20 percent of the affected
households generally qualify), and the remaining are on the list of food assistance provided generally
through food-for-work.
For food distribution to beneficiaries who meet the selection criteria, the DMMU has signed
Memoranda of Understanding with 29 international/national NGOs who distribute food to the
beneficiaries listed in close collaboration with the Satellite Committees, and under the overall
supervision of the DDRC. Nearly 80 percent of the food to the able-bodied is given under food-for
work programs and the designated NGOs have the responsibility of managing the food-for- work
program approved by the district relief committees for the designated communities. DMMU carries
out its oversight responsibilities for the proper food distribution through supervisory visits and
periodic meetings with the district agencies. DMMU has three regional offices that assist in the
performance of its field activities, provincial/district coordination, supervision, and investigation of
complaints and grievances.
Removing Logistical Bottlenecks. The government's basic strategy in dealing with the task of moving
relief materials to the people in the affected 3 8 districts is to ensure coordination of the activities of all
those involved in the ordering, shipment, certification, customs processing, storage and distribution of
relief food and other drought mitigation items. By so doing, it aims to avoid the bunching of the
arrival of relief materials, minimize double handling, reduce storage and transport costs. The
government also intends to take steps to improve the systems in place for tracking internal movement
of relief materials thus ensuring their safe and timely distribution to beneficiaries. Steps will also be
taken to ensure that institutional barriers are removed to allow full utilization of logistical resources
available within the country. The SADC Logistics Office also coordinates Zambia's logistical needs
in the region that is located in Johannesburg, South Africa.
To address logistics problems at the district level, the government intends to (i) make improvements
to the rural road network in key locations in the 38 affected districts through food/cash for works
programs; (ii)-repair and rehabilitate some presently unserviceable pontoons; (iii) install bailey
bridges at critical river crossings; and (iv) repair and rehabilitate some tractors and procure new ones.
The government is also taking steps to ensure that needed bridge strengthening is carried out at key
locations and that the rail tracks/beds of the Zambian Railways and TAZARA are strengthened at
known weak points before the onset of the rainy season.
Monitoring the Food Situation and Implementing the Plan. The Govemment has in place institutional
arrangements for disaster mitigation planning and management, and a structured oversight mechanism
for policy formulation, program review and co-ordination. The Office of the Vice President has the
overall responsibility for disaster management, and a department of this Office headed by a director -
Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit (DMMU)- is the nodal agency for planning and
coordinating disaster management. At the apex is a Cabinet Committee chaired by the Vice President
and called the National Disaster and Relief Committee (NDRC). NDRC is served by a Technical
21



Committee, which comprises of the permanent secretaries of the concemed ministries. A subordinate
committee of technical specialists supports the technical committee. Because of the need for
coordination and consultations with the UN system, donors, NGOs and other stakeholders, the
Government has decided to establish a Joint Steering Committee (JSC) comprising of the key
government ministries/agencies, the concemed UN agencies, key NGOs with major implementation
responsibility, and selected private sector organizations. This committee would be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Vice President, with DMMU acting as its secretariat. The
JSC would act as an effective forum for information sharing, periodic consultation, coordination, and
oversight of the disaster mitigation program, and make recommendations to the NDRC.
In the field, the District Disaster Management Committee oversees implementation of the disaster
relief program at the provincial level by the Provincial Disaster Management Committee, and at the
district level. Prominent NGOs, other local stakeholder institutions and private sector are represented
on these committees. This participatory and representative character of the institutional arrangement
for drought mitigation and management continues down to the community level where Satellite
Committees comprising of the community elders and other community representatives participate in
drought mitigation planning and management activities such as household surveys, preparing
beneficiary lists, determining household food gap and relief food entitlement, and oversight of food
and other relief distribution by the field implementing agencies (generally the NGOs). The DMMU
and the Word Food Program, who share tasks related to the relief food distribution, have engaged
nearly 29 NGOs to distribute food in the districts/areas respectively assigned to each, and to manage
the food-for-work programs approved for the area. Through these mechanisms, the Government has
on the ground a fairly transparent and accountable arrangement for program administration,
monitoring and implementation.
Medium-Term Interventions and Actions
The Government plan for drought recovery consists of interventions proposed broadly in two main
categories: securing food supplies and distribution to the affected populations, and non-food relief
measures such as drinking water, repairs to infrastructure for access roads, support with seed and
fertilizer packages to help affected farmers grow next year crop, and measures for assisting the most
vulnerable. The following are some of the non-food interventions that are discussed in greater detail
in Attachment 1.
Water and Sanitation. The water scarcity in several parts of the affected districts is quite severe, and
is particularly acute in the 11 districts of the Southern province. The Government strategy to redress
the situation is to rehabilitate the existing drinking water sources in the most affected areas, and to
create new water points through a borehole-drilling program where the existing sources cannot be
revived. For this rehabilitating the existing fleet of drilling rigs, purchase drilling bits and other
materials for carrying out the drilling program, and purchase of new rigs would augment the drilling
capacity of the Department of Water Affairs. In order to expedite the construction/rehabilitation of
water points the Government would use extensively available drillers in the private sector.
Infrastructure Improvement. Making improvements to the rural road network in key locations in the
38 affected districts using labor intensive work methods as well as repair and rehabilitation of some
presently unserviceable pontoons and bailey bridges at critical river crossings, and repair and
rehabilitation of old equipment and acquisition of new equipment are some of the key Government
interventions envisaged under this drought mitigation plan.
Social Safety Net Interventions. The Government will implement social safety net schemes for
different groups of the populations affected by the drought. This will include (i) addressing the failure
in household incomes by expanding the labor-intensive works opportunities for cash-for-work and
food-for-work; (ii) protecting education outcomes in terms of school attendance through an
emergency school feeding program and expansion of its targeted bursaries programs; (iii) protecting
22



drought-affected people's access to safe water and sanitation, essential for nutrition and health, by
rehabilitating boreholes and sanitation facilities in drought affected areas.
The public works program will aim to alleviate the impact of the drought on vulnerable populations
and improve their livelihoods by providing in-kind (food and/or inputs) or cash assistance to
households to facilitate their access to essential goods and services. The program will aim to
supplement incomes of the most vulnerable populations in drought-affected areas of Zambia for a
period of 18 months through labor intensive road and other infrastructure improvement activities.
Support for Next Crop Season. The Government will initiate a number of agricultural programs
aimed at restoring the productive capability of the agriculture sector, particularly, the smallholder
farmers affected by the drought. A program that provides agricultural inputs, training in appropriate
land and water management techniques to improve the capacity of an expanded number of targeted
farmers to engage in agricultural production for the upcoming season (2002/3) is in place and the
necessary preparations underway. The intervention shall be implemented within the framework of the
introduction of Technology Packs carried out by NGOs in the last two years free of charge to eligible
participants. The main technological components of the program will be fertilizer, seed and planting
materials distribution and introduction of conservation farming (including soil fertility inputs). The
government will also implement an emergency animal disease control program targeted mostly at
diseases of an epidemic nature to protect livestock against mortality and decreased production.
The Government short- and medium term interventions in the agricultural sector will remain
consistent with the current and long-term sector development polices and are designed to enhance the
participation of private sector and NGOs in the distribution of inputs and the provision of agricultural
services. The private sector is participating in the implementation of a public program under which
private firms distribute agricultural inputs to farmers who receive partial matching grants from the
Government. This is an income-augmenting scheme that is designed to support farmers who can
make contribution towards the cost of inputs to adopt improved technologies resistant to drought.
Capacity Building. Recognizing the deficiencies in the current arrangement the Government is
committed to build up appropriate capacity for early waming, planning comprehensive mitigation
measures, and timely and efficient implementation of the mitigation plans.
Cost of the Mitigation Plan
The total cost of the drought mitigation effort in both the private and public sectors over a two year
period is about USDUS$276 million. Based on the original Government request to the World Bank, it
is expected that US$50 will come from IDA and have proposed allocations for interventions as
indicated in Attachment III. The Government will also use about US$21 million from ongoing IDA
supported projects for drought mitigation purposes, i.e., to implement safety net interventions aimed
at augmenting incomes of vulnerable groups. The Govemment has secured about US$44 million
assistance from other donors, of which about US$20 million is for food aid. The private sector will
import about US$62 million worth of food and agricultural inputs. Government expenditure for the
drought emergency from the 2002 budget is estimated at US$32 million. This leaves a gap of about
US$ 66 million, of which US$60 million is for food imports that need to be met before May 2003.
The Govemment intends to make provision in its 2003 budgetary resources, a well as the use of
suppliers credit if additional food aid assistance cannot be obtained from bilateral and multilateral
sources.
23



The government will use the US$50 million that it is expecting from IDA to supplement its foreign
exchange positions and to support the recovery program. Part of the proceeds of the IDA assistance
will be allocated through the budget to support safety net interventions, such as the public works
programs and the agricultural production and rehabilitation interventions, and to maintain economic
and social priorities of the PRSP. In addition, the government will allocate from its 2003 budget
sufficient resources to expand the coverage of the social safety net interventions and other
interventions that are aimed at drought mitigations.
24



Attachment 1
Drought Recovery Interventions
The interventions discussed below fulfill Government's policy considerations of responding to short,
medium and long-term requirements expected of the drought recovery program. Brief description, the
cost implications and the expectations from the World Bank are summarized below item-wise.
1. Emergency Food Supply.
Zambia estimated a total maize production of 601,000 metric tons during the 2001/02 agricultural
season, 51 percent below the last normal annual crop, thus giving a food deficit of about 635,000
metric tons. The Government assessed the specific food needs of the affected populations in the 38
districts through vulnerability assessment and mapping exercises undertaken jointly with the UN
agencies and the NGOs following the May 2002 crop forecast. The communities through their local
committees called the "satellite committees" were closely associated with the food assessment, and in
preparing the household need list which would be the basis for food distribution. Their food relief
needs are estimated at 224,000 metric tons and would cost about US$56 million.
Taking cognizance of this situation, the Government has arranged to secure food supplies through the
private sector, bilateral donor assistance, WFP, and through Government's own budgetary resources.
The private sector supplies are estimated at 300,000 metric tons and would take care of the market
demand in the urban and periurban areas where people would buy food. So far, food aid delivery has
been about 20,000 metric tons and another 20,000 metric tons is expected in the next few months,
bringing the total to 40,000 metric tons. The rest, about 260,000 has to be imported by government
through its own budgetary resources for food relief distribution and for emergency reserve.
Distribution Arrangement and Criteria for food relief: A number of ongoing programs of food relief
distribution as well as food for works and community self-help are being administered by various
Government agencies and implemented through NGOs and other agencies. The principal programs
are as follows:
(a) Targetedfood assistance: Disaster Mitigation and Management Unit (DMMU) and the WFP
implement these programs in the drought-affected areas mainly through the NGOs who
distribute the food assistance. DMMU has contracted 29 NGOs for food distribution, and
WFP has on contract 13 such NGOS (some being common). For targeted food assistance,
assessment surveys are conducted by the Government through close involvement of the
NGOs, community level satellite committees and the district disaster relief committees, and
then validated through an arrangement of scrutiny by a national joint team comprising of the
key Government ministries/agencies, the UN System such as the WFP, FAO and the
prominent NGOs. The available food aid is distributed to households based on a combination
of geographic targeting (districts where production shortfalls were highest) and indicator-
based targeting. Targeting criteria for households include: female headed households; child
headed households; disabled headed households; households supporting orphans; households
facing calamities including HIV/AIDS and households with less that one hectare of land. The
most vulnerable groups are placed on a separate list and provided with free food rations
(about 20 percent of the affected households generally qualify), and the remaining (80
percent) is on the list of food assistance provided generally through food-for-work. The food
distribution is done by the NGO in close collaboration with the satellite committee, and
periodically supervised/monitored by the district disaster relief Quite often the target-group
households outstrips the levels of available food aid, and the beneficiary households tend to
share the food with others in the community;
25



(b) Social assistance to incapacitated people: The Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS)
implemented by the Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare (MCDSS) is
one of the oldest social programs in Zambia, which provides in-kind assistance (clothes, food,
educational requirements, etc) to non-able bodied poor such as widows, orphans, elderly and
disabled. Under recent reforms, the beneficiaries are selected by community public welfare
committees which consist of community representatives; the community committees are
linked to area- and district-level committees which also include NGO and district government
officers. Currently about 10 percent of the targeted population receives this assistance due to
budgetary limitations.
(c) Food-for-Assets, Cash-for-Works and Food-for-Works: These programs are carried out by a
number of NGOs and public agencies e.g. the Program for Urban Self-Help (PUSH), CARE
International food for work program--rehabilitation of community productive assets, ZAMSIF
Community Transport Infrastructure program under ROADSIP. The scale of labor-intensive
works undertaken by these programs is still low and hence even in aggregate they do not add
up to a safety net with significant coverage now. However, there is sufficient under-utilized
technical capacity in these institutions, which can be mobilized to expand these works to
provide significantly more supplemental cash-income opportunities for unskilled workers in
drought-affected areas. During this drought, Government would emphasize that the
implementers increase the labor content of the schemes to provide relief to a maximum
number of the affected people.
Logistics of Food Transportation: Of the estimated food deficit of about 635,000mt, roughly 174,000
metric tons. is relief food being distributed principally by WFP and needing to be moved to affected
population of 2.9 million in 38 districts- some 60 percent in the Southern Province, 38 percent in
Western, 37 percent in Eastern and 31 percent in Central provinces. Compared to food relief,
agricultural inputs and other materials are small in volume. WFP estimates that between 17 to 25,000
metric tons. of food will need to be distributed monthly over the period September 2002 and March,
2003: its present monthly distribution is about 7,000 metric tons. Delivery from the nearest external
source of food import, Republic of South Africa, takes between four to six weeks by rail. The
government and WFP engage the services of NGOs in the affected areas to distribute relief food. No
major logistics problems are faced in getting food down to district headquarters, the major logistics
problems being at the district level where poor rural road network and transport services require that
special, non commercial arrangements be made to supplement available transport services. About a
third of the total cost of food relief operations is attributable to their transportation from source of
procurement to place of consumption.
The government' basic strategy in dealing with the task of moving relief materials to the people in the
affected 38 districts is to ensure good coordination of the activities of all stakeholders involved in the
ordering, shipment, certification, customs processing, storage and distribution of relief materials. By
so doing, it aims to avoid the bunching of the arrival of relief materials, minimize double handling,
reduce storage, and transport costs. The government also intends to take steps to improve the systems
in place for tracking internal movement of relief materials thus ensuring their safe and timely
distribution to beneficiaries. Steps will also be taken to ensure that institutional barriers are removed
to allow full utilization of logistical resources available within the country.
To address logistics problems at the district level, the government intends to (a) make improvements
to the rural road network in key locations in the 38 affected districts through food/cash for works
programs; (b) repair and rehabilitate some presently unserviceable pontoons; (c) install bailey bridges
at critical river crossings; and (d) repair and rehabilitate some tractors and procure ten new ones. The
government is also taking steps to ensure that needed bridge strengthening is carried out at key
locations and that the rail tracks/beds of the Zambian Railways and TAZARA are strengthened at
known weak points before the onset of the rainy season. The government will also engage in dialogue
with its partners to ensure that equipment available to them are made generally accessible for use in
facilitating the movement of relief materials.
26



Bank support will be required mainly for:
(a) Logistics improvement including (i) the proposed improvements to the rural road network
(the cost of this is provided for under the planned Public Works Program); (ii) repair and
rehabilitation of pontoons at a cost of US$600,000 (cost of spares and equipment); (iii)
installation of bailey bridges at about US$720,000 (civil works expenditures); (iv)
rehabilitation of four weak bridges (US$400,000); (v) repair and rehabilitation of tractors and
procurement of ten new tractors at a cost of US$ 240,000; (vi) strengthening the most
vulnerable section of the rail tracks of the Zambian railways and wagon refurbishment at an
estimated cost of US$850,000; and
(b) Meeting transportation and distribution costs of Government food imports estimated at
US$2.5 million.
Distribution Arrangements. The DMMU currently performs this function and has a key role in
demand as well as supply side of this operation. With the assistance of the district disaster relief
committees and the community -level relief committees called satellite committees the DMMU
conducts the household food survey and compiles the household food requirements aggregated to
district, regional, and national level, and these form the basis of food supply planning, procurement
and distribution. For food distribution to the beneficiaries the DMMU has entered into MoUs with 29
international/national NGOs who distribute food to the listed beneficiaries in close collaboration with
the satellite committees, and under the overall supervision of the district relief committees. DMMU
carries out its oversight responsibilities for the proper food distribution through supervisory visits and
periodical meetings with the district agencies. DMMU has three regional offices that assist in the
performance of its field activities, provincial/district coordination, supervision, and investigation of
complaints and grievances.
2. Water Sanitation and Environment
The water scarcity in several parts of the affected districts is quite severe, and is particularly acute in
the 11 districts of the Southern province. The Government strategy to meet the situation is to
rehabilitate the existing drinking water sources in the most affected areas, and to create new water
points through a borehole-drilling program where the existing sources cannot be revived. For this the
drilling capacity of the Department of Water Affairs would be augmented by rehabilitating the
existing fleet of drilling rigs, purchase drilling bits and other materials for carrying out the drilling
program, and purchase three more rigs to replace the rigs declared completely unserviceable. In order
to expedite the construction/rehabilitation of water points the Government would press into service
the available drillers in the private sector as well. The planned emergency program is expected to be
completed in less than six months.
The Government has taken steps to expedite the construction/rehabilitation of bore holes under donor
supported programs especially under (i) the German-aided project operating in the eastern province;
(ii) Japanese aided project in 6 districts of the Central province; (iii) boreholes in Gwembe district
sponsored by SDA Church and the ZESCO; and (iv) drilling of about 100 boreholes under the
UNICEF assisted program. Some initiatives under programs implemented by the ZAMSIF and RIF
projects, and programs implemented by NGOs such as the World Vision International, Care
International, Oxfam, Zambia Red Cross and the Gosnen Mission are also adding water capacity in
certain affected communities. However, due to the severity of the situation the Govermment needs to
do more to cover the remaining sizeable number of seriously affected communities. For this the
Government proposes the following program for World Bank assistance mainly to provide rigs and
other equipment to undertake a drilling program to fulfill the remaining high priority unmet needs. A
tentative list has been prepared of these sites, which would be updated and validated through the
district and satellite committees before the drilling operation is undertaken.
The key elements of this plan are as follows: (a) Spares and equipment for rehabilitation of 13
existing rigs of the Department of Water Development (US$700,000); (b) purchase of three new
27



rotary rigs with accessories and spares (US$2.34 million); (c) material, spares, fuel and lubricants and
other consumables for (i) rehabilitation of 462 boreholes in the affected districts (per list); (ii)
purchase of 100 pumps for the existing boreholes; and (iii) construction of 250 new boreholes in the
most affected areas (per list), all at an estimated cost of US$1.35 million; (d) purchase of four water
bowsers (US$ 290,000); (e) support for community maintenance program WASHE operated by the
district councils (US$20,000), and provision of 5 computers and printers for the 5 provincial program
coordinating offices in the affected provinces, and a computer and printer for the headquarters office
(US$15,000); and (f) supplemental provision for carrying out hydrological surveys and regular water
table level monitoring particularly in the most severely affected Southern province (US$ 10,000) .
Implementation Arrangements: As described in component description some donor -assisted
programs are being implemented in a few of the affected districts, and the implementing agencies are
mainly the contracted NGOs who are utilizing the services of the private drillers for making and
rehabilitating the boreholes. The Department of Water Affairs under the Ministry of Energy and
Water Affairs would carry out the proposed program under the DRMP of drilling new boreholes and
rehabilitation. The department also proposes to utilize available private drilling capacity to expedite
implementation, and approved procurement procedures would be applied to hire private drillers. This
department under approved procurement procedures would manage the procurement of the new rigs
and other equipment, spares and machinery. The rehabilitation of the rigs would be carried out at the
departmental workshops
The World Bank is requested to finance the costs of equipment, materials, spares, fuel and other
consumable described above in the total value of US$4,435,000. The Government is committed to
provide budget support by way of counter part funds for undertaking the drilling program, and
securing its completion in the time frame indicated above.
3. Public Works Program:
The main objective of the public works program supported under the proposed project would be to
alleviate the impact of drought on vulnerable populations and improve their livelihoods by providing
in-kind (food and/or inputs) or in- cash assistance to enable them to secure food and other essential
goods and services. The program would lead to the improvement of rural infrastructure and thus
assist agricultural production by improving access of the rural communities to markets for essential
goods and services. The works to be executed would be labor-intensive in order to benefit the largest
number of affected people, and would engage unskilled labors from the nearby communities. Two
types of public works would be undertaken:
Road repair, improvement and maintenance: In order to provide work to communities within a
reasonable distance from their residence, it is proposed to identify 350 such works in the 38 districts,
priority being given to the most affected areas. Each roadwork would cost about US$20,000 and
improve about 5 kilometers of road sections, culverts, small bridges, and related drainage structures;
the road sections need not be along the same road link. The total cost of the work program would be
about US$7 million, and this investment will improve nearly 1,750 Km of road network. The location
of the proposed work in a severe drought area, its priority for the community and the district council
in terms of improving access, and livelihoods of the surrounding populations would be the main
criteria applied for identifying the proposed works. The other normative criteria for the selected
works would include the following: (i) labor content should not be less than 60 percent of the total
cost of work, overheads no more than 10 percent, and tools and other operating costs no more than 30
percent; (ii) women should comprise at least 60 percent of the labor force engaged; (iii) program wage
rates would be set at ZK5,000 per day; (iv) labor input in a workday would be limited to about 4 hours
per task; and (v) child care facilities would be provided with elderly women and physically
weak/infirm persons earning their wages by looking after the children.
Other Civil works: Some other local civil works of utility would also be covered under this program in
order to provide temporary employment for income supplementation to the affected population within
28



or nearby their communities. These would include improvement of shallow drinking water wells;
construction of VIP latrines; repair/reconstruction of the dip tanks and such other works of
community use. These works would be identified by the various implementation agencies (including
the NGOs) in consultation with the communities. The district council would be consulted and the
district disaster relief committee would approve the overall program in the district. The criteria for
selection of works described above would also be applicable to these works.
Implementation Arrangements: The nodal agency for public works implementation would be the
National Roads Board (NRB) which would be responsible for coordinating overall implementation by
the designated implementing agencies, supervision, quality assurance, monitoring and reporting. At
the technical level the public works program would be guided by a Steering Committee chaired by the
DMMU with membership extending to the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT), NRB,
Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH), Department of Roads of the Ministry of Works
and Supply, and representatives .of the implementing agencies. NRB would provide the secretariat for
this committee. The NRB would receive funding under the project from the DMMU and would
furnish to it periodical implementation progress reports, and the required financial statements of
accounts. Three implementing agencies have been identified to carry out these works in the field:
NRB/MLGH (through the provincial consultants and small scale labor-based contractors in liaison
with district councils who have engineering personnel to carry out works), PUSH and the ZAMSIF,
and more agencies may be added in future.
Assistance sought from the World Bank for the road works program is US$ 7 million from the
proposed EDRP. However, the works programs implemented by the ZAMSIF through its
implementing mechanisms would be funded by the ZAMSIF under its social fund, and sum of about
US$12 million is expected to be utilized for this purpose.
4. Emergency School Feeding Program
The objective of this program is to keep the children, particularly the girls, at school to prevent
interruption of studies in this time of stress, and to encourage dropouts to rejoin the school. The
program would support two main activities: (i) a daily high energy protein supplement (HEPS) to be
distributed to all the children attending the targeted schools; and (ii) a monthly targeted take-home
ration supplement to children offamilies on the free-food distribution list conditional on continued
school attendance by the child. The program would be implemented in targeted schools identified by
the Ministry of Education in 18 most seriously affected districts in the Southem, Eastem, and Westem
provinces (list attached).
Implementation Arrangements: The Ministry of Education would chair a task force comprising of the
representatives from the DMMU, WFP, UNICEF, WB, others concerned who would within two
weeks finalize the (i) composition of the HEPS ration in accordance with the WFP/UNESCO/WHO
guidelines on nutritious rations; and the scale of ration per child; (ii) arrangements for ration
production (in case the option settles on energy biscuits or similar manufactured foods); and set in
motion arrangements for contracting the manufacturer(s) under accepted procurement guidelines, or
decide on the ration ingredients to be procured in the market for actual preparation of preferred food
in the targeted schools(in terms of feasibility in the Zambian conditions, and with due regard to local
traditions and customs and preferences); and (iii) nominate a lead implementing agency such as the
WFP with responsibility for procurement of food items, distribution, oversight and reporting.. This
committee will also finalize arrangements for training of the district education staff and
schoolteachers entrusted with the task in the designated schools. The lead implementer and the
designated NGOs in monitoring the program would associate the District Disaster Relief Committees.
Coverage and Costs: The scheme would provide coverage to an estimated 200,000 children in 18
districts. At about 880 kwacha per child per day for 20 days of monthly schooling, the cost of these
rations in the 6-month period would be about US$5 million, which includes the costs of
transportation, distribution and administration. The funding for this program would be provided
29



under the ongoing BESSIP by appropriate inter-category re-allocation. Funding for the monthly
rations to the eligible children under the second component of this program would be secured from
another donor.
5. School Bursaries
This ongoing program would be expanded to cover about 50 percent of the affected pupils at the
primary school level in the targeted schools in the 18 affected districts. The program to be
implemented by the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS), Ministry of Community
Development. The BESSIP bursary scheme is not expected to encounter significant problems in
expanding the scheme rapidly to cover many more primary school children this year as the
mechanism is already in place, and PWAS has completed its sensitization exercises in these districts.
The program would cost about US$1.5 million and would be funded under the ongoing IDA -
supported credit BESSIP, through appropriate re-allocation amongst categories, as necessary.
6. Targeted input distribution
The Government proposes to scale up the implementation of the ongoing Food Security Pack (FSP)
scheme to cover all the 38 drought affected districts. This is a program in which the Ministry of
Community Development and Social services (MCDSS) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MAC)
collaborate, and implementation is normally assigned to NGOs. The main technological component
of the program consists in supplying diversified seed and planting material to identified small farmers
and promotes conservation farming techniques. The seed and fertilizer materials are delivered in a
pack sufficient to support production on three fourth of a hectare. In the 2002/03 cropping season the
government has planned to target 200,000 small farmers. The total costs of inputs including
transportation and distribution costs is estimated at US$7 million, which would be sought under the
proposed EDRP. The program is expected to generate about 150,000 metric tons of food including
cereals and enhance food security of the targeted farmers.
7. Matching Grant Program
The government has identified a 120,000 small farmers who are members of the farmer cooperatives
and groups in the seriously drought affected districts to assist them in raising the next season crop. A
sum US$12 million has been budgeted by the Government for program and the beneficiary farmers
will provide a matching contribution ofUS$10million. An estimated 48,000 metric tons of fertilizer
and 2,400 metric tons of seed will be procured direct from local suppliers. The inputs are intended to
be supplied at 50 percent direct subsidy. The program will result in an incremental production of
approximately 360,000 metric tons of maize. All benefiting smallholder farmers will access their
inputs from their registered farmers organizations or cooperatives. A minimum package of assistance
to the smallholder farmers will be maize seed and fertilizer inputs sufficient for planting one hectare.
The Government extension services will support the program. Beneficiary farmer organizations,
cooperatives or farmer groups will be selected by a board comprising district agriculturai committees
(DACs), the local NGOs, the church and local leadership. The program will run for three years and
will be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
8. Human Health
Due to drought conditions water sources have dried up in several areas and water scarcity is severe
affecting quality and quantity of water and general sanitation. The Ministry of Health anticipates a
considerable risk of the outbreak epidemics such as cholera, diarrhea, dysentery and other
communicable diseases like measles. To safeguard public health and control the spread of epidemics
the Government would procure/import necessary drugs and medical supplies at an estimated cost of
US$50,000 under the proposed EDRP, These would be distributed to the affected districts and stored
in key health centers to be readily available in the time of emergency.
30



9. Animal Disease Control
The government proposes an emergency animal disease control program targeted mostly at diseases
of an epidemic nature. They all affect the productivity of livestock either through direct losses caused
by mortality and decreased production or indirect losses resulting from effects on trade, draught
power, manure etc. The major diseases covered in this proposal are contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia (CBPP), Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), theileriosis (East Coast Fever) (ECF),
tsetse transmitted trypanosomosis, anthrax and rabies.
The program involves the importation of 950,000 doses of CBPP, 100,000 doses of ECF, 290,000
doses of FMD, 280,000 doses of anthrax and 44,000 doses of rabies vaccines. In addition, veterinary
drugs chemicals and diagnostic reagents will be imported to treat an estimated 265,000 cattle and kits
to treat 70,000 cases of rabies. The estimated cost of these vaccines is US$921,100 while the drugs
will cost US$509,800. Veterinary equipment will cost an additional US$47,500. Operational cost to
run this program will be US$610,000. The total cost of these imports would amount to
US$2,088,400. All vaccines, drugs and equipment will could acquired through the positive list of
imports under the project and the operating cost through special allocation under EDRP.
The program would assist in the following outputs: 25,000 cattle will be treated for ECF;
100,000cattle will be vaccinated against ECF; 950,000 cattle will be vaccinated against CBPP;
290,000cattle will be vaccinated against FMD; 280,000 cattle will be vaccinated against Anthrax and
40,000 people at risk will be protected. Livestock mortalities caused by corridor/theileriosis or ECF
and CBPP will be reduced by over 70 percent.
Implementation of these activities will be carried out by the field staff of MAC under the supervision
of the Deputy Director and assisted by the Chief Veterinary Officer in the Department of Research
and Specialist Services in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The Technical Advisory
Group will provide technical assistance to ensure efficiency and effective coverage.
10. Capacity Building Initiatives
Recognizing the deficiencies in the current arrangement the Govemment is committed to build up
appropriate capacity for disaster early waming, planning comprehensive mitigation measures, and
timely and efficient implementation of the mitigation plans. The following proposals are proposed,
which are underpinned by considerations of addressing the immediate and short- term requirements of
the current severe drought on the one hand, and for commencing actions and activities which would
assist in building capacity in the long term.
Early Warning
Strengthening the Zambia Meteorology Department: This organization is using old and archaic
instruments of 1950/60s vintage, nearly 13 district do not have appropriate rain gauges and other
instruments, institution's capacity for data analysis and forecasting is weak, and because of resource
constraints this vital organ at the forefront of the early warning chain has not been able to perform its
tasks satisfactorily, marginalizing the effort downstream as well. Action is proposed on two fronts:
(a) to provide technical assistance for a professional study to recommend the upgrading of the weather
monitoring and forecasting system which would include proposals for organizational strengthening,
appropriate job descriptions, weather data analysis methodologies and forecasting systems, and
recommendations for human resource development (US$30,000 comprising of US$15,000 for
consultant study and equal amount for training); (b) meeting the immediate equipment requirements
of the meteorology office at a cost of US$731,700. Detailed list of the equipment would be provided.
Streamlining the Organizational/institutional Arrangements for Early Warning in the Government: A
study is proposed to streamline the system by situation analysis of the roles and responsibilities of the
key Government agencies involved in early warning, their current location, study options for
31



organizational re-location for optimum utility and effectiveness, and re-structuring of the key
institutions/organizations as warranted consistent with effectiveness, efficiency and economy, and to
provide specific recommendations for human resource development (US$ 10,000). A sum of
US$ 10,000 would be provided for training of the key personnel in these organizations in terms of the
study recommendations.
Strengthening the DMMU
The Government has considered proposals to appropriately strengthen DMMU capacity to effectively
address disaster management in the long term. However, the present severe drought and the proposed
donor supported assistance package have considerably increased the range and volume of activities
for which the DMMU is not fully equipped. The addition of a large portfolio under the proposed
US$50 million World Bank credit would increase this burden further. It is therefore proposed to
strengthen the DMMU with the addition of a sub-section, which would handle the World Bank project
activities, and have the required specialists to assist DMMU to implement a time bound program of 24
months under a quick disbursing credit. The sub-section would be headed by an EDRP Coordinator,
and staffed by a procurement specialist, a financial officer and a logistics specialist with appropriate
support staff like a steno and a typist. The sub-section would work closely with the staff in the
Logistics, Operations and Management section of the DMMU as members of a team. The EDRP
coordinator in respect of all matters concerning the EDRP would report directly to the head of the
DMMU namely the National Coordinator (NC). In other matters, he would report to the NC through
the Head of the logistic, operations and management section. The DMMU in consultation with the
Permanent Secretary of the Office of the Vice President would describe the job description of each of
the new positions. One of the key responsibilities of the professional staff in the sub-section would be
to provide training to the local Government staff as a part of the capacity building objective. An
additional responsibility of the logistics specialist would be to design an appropriate logistics
management system. All the positions would be for the duration of two years, except that the logistics
specialist would be recruited for 12 months.
The Government would also establish a new regional office of the DMMU in the Western province,
as the regional office now in charge of the two most seriously affected Southern and Western
provinces is overburdened. This would need the creation of the positions of a regional coordinator, a
typist, a messenger and a driver.
All the new professional positions would be filled on the basis of competitive recruitment from the
market at competitive remuneration packages, and would be funded under the World Bank credit.
The Government may, however, exclude the new regional office positions from this dispensation, and
fill them from the civil service cadre, in case this can be accomplished expeditiously i.e. within 4 to 6
weeks. The estimated cost of these positions over a two-year period would be approximately
US$195,000. Provision would also be made for improving the monitoring and evaluation capacity,
and support for strengthening the MIS (US$10,000). Other related expenditures would be as follows:
(i) three 4WD vehicles (US$75,000); (ii) furniture and equipment, 5 computers, two printers
(US$25,000); (iii) office supplies, vehicle operating costs and other operating costs for 2 years
(US$45,000); and (iv) training of the DMMU personnel in terms of the human resource development
plan (US$25,000). A copy of the training plan would be provided.
The Government would make available to the DMMU a procurement assistant against the existing
vacant position. In addition, the Government would also provide to the DMMU a qualified
accountant (proposal already pending with the Ministry of Finance) and fill this position expeditiously
from cadre of accountants through the Accountant General.
DMMU will establish an Emergency Operations Response Center (EOC), which would operate
during emergencies and would be manned round the clock. The existing DMMU personnel would be
redeployed for duties in the EOC during the emergency. The Government would obtain technical
assistance from a similar center operating in the Republic of South Africa or from any other
32



neighboring country to suggest the design and structure of the proposed EOC and its operating
procedures; and to make specific recommendations for upgrading the communication system along
with a list of hardware to be procured for the purpose. The estimated cost of this capacity building
measure is estimated at US$50,000, which includes US$10,000 as consultancy cost, and the
remaining sum for equipment, hardware and software in terms of the consultant recommendations.
The Government requests technical assistance for the following key activities/studies which would
help achieve the policy and operational sustainability objectives of the disaster mitigation and
management initiatives of the Government: (i) to review and finalize the Government's disaster
mitigation and management policy; (ii) consistent with the national policy on disaster, and the
provisions of the proposed disaster management bill to prepare a detailed drought and famine code to
provide guidelines for step by step implementation to all the actors involved in these activities at the
community, district and national levels; (iii) to establish an appropriate data collection, analysis and
dissemination system and an MIS together with recommendations for institutional strengthening and
capacity building in this regard, and hard/soft ware requirements to operate the system. The estimated
costs of these studies would be about US$40,000.
Capacity-Buildingfor Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination of Safety Nets
It is proposed that resources be provided to carry out studies to assist (i) MCDSS to redefine its role
and responsibilities in respect of the nation-wide safety net interventions, review capacity of the
ministry and all other agencies responsible for implementation on the ground, and suggest an
appropriate structure and operating procedures to enhance focus on and effective implementation of
the social safety net initiatives;(ii) enhance monitoring, evaluation functions of the MCDSS
Department of Planning and provide an effective MIS; and (iii) prepare a long term social protection
strategy. The funding would be shared among the EDRP and existing IDA credits such as the
ZAMSIF and PSCAP. It is estimated that funding support required for these activities would be
US$300,000 out of which US$200,000 is proposed to be funded under the EDRP, a possible
US$50,000 under PSCAP and a possible US$47,000 under ZAMSIF (proposals are being processed).
33



Attachment II
Arrangement for the Implementation of the Plan
The Government has in place institutional arrangements for disaster planning and management, and a
structured oversight mechanism including for policy, program review and co-ordination. The Office
of the Vice President has the overall responsibility for disaster management, and a department of this
Office headed by a director - Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit (DMMU)- is the nodal
agency for planning and coordinating disaster management. At the apex is a Cabinet Committee
chaired by the Vice President and called the National Disaster and Relief Committee (NDRC).
NDRC is served by a Technical Committee, which comprises of the permanent secretaries of the
concerned ministries. The technical committee is supported by a subordinate committee of technical
specialists who finalize the proposals for submission to the above higher-level committees. Because
of consultations with the UN system and other stakeholders, the Government has decided to establish
a Joint Steering Committee (JSC) comprising of the key government ministries/agencies, the
concerned UN agencies, key NGOs with major implementation responsibility, and selected private
sector organizations. This commnittee would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary in the Office of
the Vice President, with DMMU acting as its secretariat. The JSC would act as an effective forum for
information sharing, periodic consultation, coordination, and oversight of the disaster mitigation
program, and make recommendations to the NDRC.
In addition, there are a number of specialized subconmnittees (tender, finance, infrastructure, health,
relief, water and sanitation, transport, and communication) through which the subject matter-specific
proposals, which require inputs by other ministries/agencies, are processed. The membership of the
sub-committees is wider and besides the concerned ministries, it carries representation of the
concerned UN agencies, NGOs, private sector bodies with a role in the particular topic of disaster
management. The DMMU provides secretariat back up to the above committees, but the sub-
committees are chaired by the lead ministry who provide the secretarial assistance as well.
In the field, implementation of the disaster relief program is overseen at the provincial level by the
Provincial Disaster Management Committee and, at the district level, by the District Disaster
Management Committee. Prominent NGOs, other local stakeholder institutions and private sector are
represented on these committees. This participatory and representative character of the institutional
arrangement for drought mitigation and management continues down to the community level where
'satellite committees' comprising of the community elders and other community representatives
participate in drought mitigation planning and management activities such as household surveys,
preparing beneficiary lists, determining household food gap and relief food entitlement, and oversight
of food and other relief distribution by the field implementing agencies (generally the NGOs). The
DMMU and the Word Food Program, who share tasks related to the relief food distribution, engage
NGOs to distribute food in the districts/areas respectively assigned to each, and to manage the food-
for-work programs approved for the area. Through these mechanisms, the Government has been able
to establish on the ground a fairly transparent and accountable arrangement for program
administration, which is considered satisfactory for implementing the initiatives supported by the
proposed EDRP.
Although the DMMU would be the nodal agency for the overall coordination and management, the
various interventions under the Drought Mitigation Plan would be executed by a number of
Ministries/agencies besides the DMMU. Component/sub-component specific implementation
arrangements are described under the respective component description.
34



Attachment III
Estimate of the Cost and Sources of Funding of the Drought Mitigation Plan
(US$, in thousands) (2002 and 2003)
Interventions/Sources    GRZi        World Bank      Donors     Private     Not       Total
I__ ____________Sector  sourced
EDRP     Ongoing
Projects
1.   Imports (Positive                                                                  35,000
List of EDRP)
2.   Emergency Food       20,000                        20,00-07-  50,00     60,0009    150,000
Supply
3.   Water and                                           4,000                 4,400      8,400
_____ Sanitation
4.   Public Work's                  7,000     13,800                                     20,800
Program
5.   Scholl Feeding                            5,000                                      5,000
Program
6.   Bursaries Program                         1,500                                 _    1,500
7.   Agr. Production                6,500                15,000                          21,500
_____  Rehabilitation
8.   Matching grant for   12,000                                   12,000                24,000
agricultural inputs                                                              _
9.   Animal Disease                   500                                      2,000      2,500
Control
10.  Infrastructure                             800      2,400                            3,200
Rehabilitation                .                        .
11.  Capacity Building              1,000                                                 1,000
Total                32,000   50,000    21,100     44,400     62,000     66,450  275,950
5 The figures in this column are in the budget for 2002. Government budget provided for most f the
interventions is not reflected in this column.
6 This amount can be used to meet funding requirements of some interventions that do not have financing
sources.
7 Assumes a 50 percent reduction in anticipated food aid (85,000 metric tons) because of the government
decision not to use GMO for food consumption. Most food aid could arrive in 2003.
8 Private sector import is estimated to be 200,000 metric tons, less than the original estimate of 300,000 metric
tons.
9 The Government intends to procure 235,00 metric tons in FY2003 at a cost of about US$60 million. This will
be reflected in next year's budget.
10 The total cost of the drought emergency is much higher than this amount. This is the cost of the Government
proposal to IDA, and includes of funds that are, and could be, mobilized form other sources.
35



Annex 2: Macroeconomic Impact of Current Food Crisis
Food balance sheet
Zambia faces a serious food shortage in 2002/03 owing to unusually low rainfall during the previous
production season. The 2001/2002 production season was characterized by scarce rains in the
southern half of the country and somewhat normal rains in the northern half. Consequently, crop
production was negatively affected. In Southern Province, the dry spells resulted in insufficient
moisture to support crop development, thereby severely affecting crop production. Similarly, in the
northern province, severe floods experienced in February 2002 swept away most of the mature
cassava crop grown in the plains of some parts of the province.
While the total national food requirement is estimated at 1,476,000 metric tons, domestic production
is estimated at only 765,000 metric tons. This represents an overall food deficit of 433,000 metric
tons. For maize only, the deficit is 635,000 metric tons, the largest maize deficit experienced in recent
years. Other cereal crops sorghum/millet, rice and wheat recorded huge deficits.
Table 1: Food balance sheet for 2002/2003, based on the 2001/2002 crop forecast
(metric tons)
Maize    Sorghum/    Rice   Wheat    Cassava   Other      Total
Millet                               tubers
A. Opening stocks (May 1,     20,000         -    1,000    2,000        -        -     23,000
2002)
B. Production (2001/2002)    601,606    54,416   11,645   74,527  850,626  418,390    742,194
C. Total Availability (A+B)  621,606    54,416   12,645   76,527  850,626   418,390   765,194
D. Staple food requirements
1. Human consumption     1,060,720    83,487  16,763  110,757   581,978  370,472  1,271,726
2. Food resv. Tocks (net)  15,000          -       -        -         -        -     15,000
3. Stock feed              35,000          -       -        -         -        -     35,000
4. Breweries               65,000          -       -        -         -        -     65,000
5. Seed                     10,000     1,000       -     1,500       -         -     12,500
6. Export/cross-CBT         10,000         -       -        -         -        -     10,000
7. Losses                  60,161      2,721    582     3,726    17,013   20,920     67,190
Total requirements         1,255,880    87,207   17,345  115,983  598,990   391,392  1,476,416
E. Surplus/deficit         (634,274)   (32,791)  (4,700)  (39,456)  251,636  26,998  (432,588)
F. Food relief requirements  175,000                                                  175,000
G. Commercial import         459,274    32,791   4,700    39,456        0        0    257,588
requirement
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives
Currently, a total of 38 districts in seven provinces are in need of food relief. The government's plan
is to provide at least 200,000 metric tons of relief food to these areas. In addition, commercial
imports are expected to be in the range of 300,000 metric tons. In financial terms, it is estimated that
a total of US$160 million is required to tackle the problem of food shortages and to finance programs
aimed at supporting farmers experiencing food shortages.
Macroeconomic impact
The food shortage will have some short-term economic consequences, which can be managed
provided that sufficient external support is forthcoming to help finance the emergency recovery effort.
Early indications are that the food crisis will have adverse impact on GDP growth, exchange rate,
inflation, government budget, and balance of payments position.
36



GDP growth. The food crisis has adversely affected agricultural growth, and through the latter, the
overall growth of the economy. Compared to the previous production season, production of maize
declined by 24.5 percent from 803,000 metric tons of maize to 606,000 metric tons (in 2001/2002).
Production of maize, millet/sorghum, rice and wheat fell in the 2001/2002 agricultural season
compared to the previous season. The decline in cassava output was largely due to the severe floods
experienced in February 2002 in Northern and Luapula provinces, which swept away most of the
mature cassava. As a result of these drops in crop output, value added in the agricultural sector is
projected to drop by 3.9 percent compared to original projected growth of 2.0 percent in 2002. The
decline in value added in the agricultural sector has adversely affected the growth of real GDP.
Preliminary data compiled by the Central Statistics Office indicate that real GDP will grow by 3.7
percent in 2002 compared to a targeted growth of at least 4.3 percent.
Exchange rate. Between end of December 2001 and the end of June 2002, the Bank of Zambia mid-
exchange rate depreciated by 14 percent. Similarly, the commercial bank's selling rates depreciated
by 14.7 percent. This contrasts significantly with the results for the same period in 2001 when the
Bank of Zambia mid-exchange rate appreciated by 12 percent and the commercial banks' selling rates
by 13.6 percent. The depreciation in the exchange rate during 2002 has mainly been attributed to
market speculation following the announced pull-out by Anglo-American Plc from Konkola Copper
Mines, and reduced supply of foreign currency on the market that was due to depressed metal prices.
However, in recent months the currency has come under even greater pressure because of the
increased demand emanating from the need to finance maize and crude oil imports.
Inflation. In July 2002, the twelve-month inflation rose to 23.4 percent from 18.7 percent recorded as
at end-December 2001. This was 6.3 percentage points higher than that recorded as at end-July 2001.
Similarly, the year-to-date inflation rose to 11.4 percent, 4.3 percentage points higher than that
recorded during the same period in 2001. At the current trend, the 12-month inflation as at end-
December 2002 is estimated at 17.0 percent, which is 4.0 percentage points above the inflation target
of 13 percent agreed with the IMF. The rise in inflation is mainly attributed to the rising food prices
caused by low availability of food items, as well as the sharp depreciation of the kwacha.
Central government budget. Government did not provide for food imports in the 2002 budget, as no
drought was anticipated. As the food shortfall developed, however, government has increasingly
become involved in procuring maize. Of the estimated maize shortfall of 634,000 metric tons,
govermnent's direct involvement will be to ensure that 300,000 metric tons is procured. At the
current average market price per ton (for maize) of US$250, government's total bill will amount to
about US$72.0 million. Of this, a tentative agreement with the IMF allows for the government to
spend up to US$18 million towards food imports through issuance of treasury bills. Given that the
government has officially rejected donations of genetically-modified maize, and that the prospects for
donations of non-genetically-modified maize is very limited, the government will need to secure
US$55 million of external financial resources to meet food needs.1" Unless the govemment secures
such financing from external sources, the impact on 2003 budget deficit will be significant.
Balance ofpayments. The current account deficit is projected to narrow from an estimated deficit of
20.2 percent of GDP in 2001 to 17.2 percent of GDP in 2002. This Projection is based on an increase
in export volumes of 3.5 percent and a decline of import volumes by 4.6 percent (due to an anticipated
reduced investments in the mining sector following the decision made by Anglo-America not to make
further investments in Konkola Copper Mines Plc). However, as a result of the drought, imports are
expected to increase by 6.4 percent, thus raising the original projected import bill from US$1,192
"1     During the July Consultative Group for Zambia, cooperating partners pledged to support Zambia's
food shortfall amounting to about US$18 million for 44,465 metric tones of food under the World Food
Program's emergency operations project. Following the CG meeting held in July donors made pledges for the
procurement of food. However, most of the pledges made at the CG towards the financing of food purchases
have not yet materialized.
37



million to US$1,329 million in 2002. Higher projected imports imply increased net service payments.
Export earnings are expected to rise slightly due to higher export volumes. These expected
developments, coupled with flat net income and a decline in projected GDP growth imply that the
projected current account deficit will widen slightly from 17.2 percent to 17.5 percent of GDP.
38



Annex 3: Social Risks and Protection Mechanisms
Neither poverty nor drought are new to Zambia. Poverty levels have remained very high throughout
the last decade, with the 1998 Living Conditions Monitoring Survey reporting 73 percent of all
Zambians living below the poverty line and 58 percent of the population living in extreme poverty
with insufficient means to cover basic food requirements. The levels of extreme poverty in rural
Zambia (71 percent of the rural population) are reported to be almost double that of urban areas (36
percent). Given such high levels of poverty, it is not surprising that the poor are distributed
throughout the country in every province. Drought too is a recurrent feature in Zambia, with the
historic drought of 1991/92 being followed by a smaller but significant drought in 1995, localized
crop failures in the intervening years, and once again, a major drought which is the crisis at hand
today.
Recognizing the recurrent nature of droughts in Zambia and the devastating and long-term
consequences for very low-income households, the government has included in its drought mitigation
plan a program to improve social protection of the poorest households in the immediate short term as
well as in the medium to long term such that Zambia enhances its overall ability to respond in the
future to droughts and other major economic shocks.
Expected social impact of the drought
While the initial impact of the drought was evident in the grain production figures, households are
experiencing its impact primarily as a consumption shock with many dimensions. Livelihoods in
rural Zambia are highly dependent on agriculture. Many smallholder farmers produce crops for
subsistence only and, in the worst-affected regions, a large number of smallholder farmers have
experienced total crop failure. For those rural and urban poor who do not or cannot rely on own-
production alone to meet basic food needs, the escalating prices of maize has led to a severe economic
strain through the erosion of purchasing power. As an example, while the price of a 25 kilogram bag
of maize meal was about 13,500 kwacha in December 2001, the current price is about 35,000 kwacha.
Moreover, opportunities for the able-bodied poor to earn wages to supplement incomes and buy food
are also very limited.
Under these circumstances, households are forced to make short-term choices which can have
deleterious long-term consequences for them. Many of these choices involve shifting resources from
investments for long-term benefits (for example, sending children to school) towards meeting
immediate household needs (food). While accurate estimates are not available, there are numerous
reports by NGOs and community based organizations in Zambia that children are dropping out of
school at an accelerated pace because the poorest households can no longer afford to pay for the
indirect costs of education (pencils, exercise books, and the like) and because they need the children's
assistance in earning wages or searching for food. Many of these school drop-outs may never return
to school and face the disadvantages of low education throughout their lives.
Health, nutrition and water. In addition to slashing agricultural output, the drought has in the heavily
hit districts in both the Southern and Western Provinces significantly reduced the quantity of available
clean water. The combination of limited food and clean water may damage people's health,
especially of women and children. The United Nations reports that children nationwide suffer from
high malnutrition rates with 53 percent stunted, 24 percent underweight, and 5 percent wasting. In the
worst-affected provinces, malnutrition levels in children under age five has been rising during the past
four years, and acute malnutrition (due to short-term effects) is expected to increase severely because
of care practices, inadequate food intake, and poor environmental conditions. In August 2002, a study
showed that 4.4 percent of children under the age of 5 were acutely malnourished. In fact, the
Southern Province has recorded significant increases in chronic malnutrition for 1991-93 and for
1993-96. The two periods have been associated with droughts that have particularly affected
Southern Province. The drying up of shallow water wells and surface water in the worst-hit districts
39



has increased the risk of diarrhea and other related illnesses and infections. NGOs report that many
people cannot afford to obtain medical care as they do not have money to pay for the services or
because they are spending their time obtaining food and cannot go to health facilities. Women suffer
the most because they give up the little food available for other members of the family.
HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has left many orphans and widows in Zambia. In 1998 there
were 950,000 orphans in Zambia, 14 percent of whom lived in Southem Province, the third largest
number of orphans after the Copperbelt and Lusaka provinces. When added together, Central,
Eastern, Southern and Westem Provinces account for over 40 percent of orphans in the country. The
direct impact of the crisis in these areas will adversely affect the ability of communities to care for
people with HIV/AIDS, orphans, widows and, indeed, all vulnerable groups who traditionally rely on
family and community social support networks in times of need. In addition, hunger will result in
further exposure of the vulnerable to HIV/AIDS-especially in urban and periurban areas-as they
have few options at their disposal and may be forced to engage in high-risk behavior to survive.
Education. The sharply reduced grain harvests and acute shortages of water due to the drought has
resulted in widespread hunger across the country, particularly in the districts of the Southern, Central
and Eastern Provinces. This hunger has contributed to absenteeism of children from schools. The
impact of the present drought is basically an acute worsening of an already low school attendance due
to the high poverty levels and growing incidence of HIV/AIDS. Even prior to the drought, the
national enrollment rate declined from 85 percent in 1996 to 77 percent in 2001 (Ministry of
Education, Situational Analysis). Enrollment in rural areas is far worse than the national averages,
with attendance in 2001 standing at only 61 percent of eligible children. The direct consequence of the
current shortage of food is that pupils not only go to school hungry but are also forced to do additional
household chores and livelihood activities, such as fetching water and looking for food or, in the case
of urban areas, working for food or going to beg for food and money in the streets instead of attending
school. There are reports that enrollment in the areas most affected by the drought is down again this
year from earlier years.
Productive household assets are being depleted. Livestock is one of the major productive assets that
small farmers, even the poor, aspire to own and retain. One of the impacts of the drought, however,
has been the loss of animals in the drought-affected areas due to the scarcity of water. Estimates are
lacking of the dimensions of the depletion, but for some of the poorer households they represent large
losses in savings. Such losses will further constrain the ability of these households to recover from
the drought and engage in productive activities subsequently. Furthermore, some households no
longer have seed stock for planting in the next agricultural season because they have had to eat them
as food, and no resources to purchase new inputs.
Traditional safety nets and mutual assistance is overstretched. While Zambia has in place a number
of publicly-financed safety net mechanisms, the poorest and the most vulnerable households cope
with crises by reducing consumption, working longer hours or at different tasks (for example,
working for wages as well as farming), and obtaining resources from members of the family,
community, church groups, or other affiliate. NGOs have been reporting for some time that there are
large numbers of households in rural and urban areas who eating one meal a day. Households
(usually women and children) have also been foraging for wild foods, including roots, leaves, and
fruits. In most cases, these wild foods are not sufficient to replace the caloric content of the major
cereals. The traditional mutual assistance and family networks are already grappling with the
unprecedented shock of the large number of orphans, and with the ongoing high levels of poverty that
exist even in years of normal agricultural output. The food shortages this year will increase the
number of people needing assistance, while at the same time reducing the capacity of families and
communities to cope. Traditional support mechanisms are still very important in reaching the most
vulnerable. Community and church-based structures through the satellite disaster committees actively
identify people who are particularly vulnerable and in need of scarce food aid. NGOs note that
community norms of sharing are alive and in use, whereby specifically targeted vulnerable people
who receive food aid will often share the food with others who are also in need but who did not
40



receive the aid. As for wage labor opportunities for those who are able-bodied, reports from NGOs
(such as PUSH) implementing various food-for-work programs indicate that many more people are
seeking employment than there are jobs.
Needfor direct food assistance. Due to the widespread crop failures, lack of alternative sources of
income, and gaps in the formal and informal safety nets, the joint assessment of the Disaster
Management and Mitigation Unit (DMMU), WFP, FAO, and NGOs carried out in July 2002 (released
on September 16, 2002) estimates that approximately 2.9 million people require direct food assistance
on a monthly basis through March 2003 when the next harvest is expected. This represents over a
quarter (27 percent) of the total population of Zambia. The WFP further estimates that of the people
needing direct food assistance, 829,000 (60 percent) are in Southern Province while 38 percent are in
Western, 37 percent are in Eastern, and 31 percent are in Central Provinces. Estimates by WFP show
that cumulative cereal requirements between September 2002 and March, 2003 will be at 224,200
metric tons.
Existing public safety nets and humanitarian assistance mechanisms
The government of Zambia and its partners, including NGOs, donors and the World Bank, are already
supporting several programs aimed at strengthening community-response mechanisms and at
providing social assistance to households identified as especially vulnerable. The programs are
grouped into two categories. The first is productivity-enhancing, intended to not only provide
income, but also to also to create or protect household or community assets. The second is
consumption-enhancing, the primary objective of which is solely to transfer resources to the
beneficiary. In brief, the major programs under implementation include the following.
Targeted input distribution. The government and donors are actively supporting a number of NGOs
which aim to distribute seeds and fertilizer to vulnerable but viable farmers and to promote
conservation farming practices in those natural regions where they are appropriate. The largest such
program is being implemented by the Program against Malnutrition which emerged from the efforts to
mitigate the impact of the 1991/92 drought.'2 The Program against Malnutrition and its partner NGOs
have been implementing the food security pack initiative. Under this initiative, farmers who are
cultivating less than one hectare of land receive a diversified supply of seeds and other inputs adapted
to the local economic and soil regeneration needs. Where appropriate, the distributing NGOs also
train farmers in conservation farming practices. In return, the farmers must establish a community
seed bank and contribute 10 percent of the total output of their farms to the seed bank which becomes
a revolving seed fund for farmers of the community. The Program against Malnutrition reports that in
past years the payments (in-kind and sometimes in cash) to the seed bank have been completed by 60-
80 percent of the beneficiaries of the Program against Malnutrition. In 2002 it was reported that
farmers using conservation farming techniques in areas that received low and erratic rainfall in the
Southern Province achieved positive yields whereas neighboring farmers who used conventional
farming techniques suffered total crop failure.6
For the coming agricultural season, the Program against Malnutrition had originally been promised 10
billion kwacha from the public budget to finance inputs for 60,000 beneficiaries. As the scale of the
present drought became clearer, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning has indicated a
willingness to finance inputs for 200,000 farmers. Donors active in agriculture (such as FAO,
12     The Program against Malnutrition was initially established in 1992 as a government program for
distributing relief food to vulnerable groups affected by the 1991/92 drought. It was later transformed to focus
more on drought rehabilitation and development oriented non-food relief such as seed distribution, fertilizer,
seed production and distribution, food processing, preservation and utilization, using government and donor
resources.
6      It should be noted, however, that conservation farming techniques are not a panacea to drought
conditions. They are not suitable in certain types of terrain and, moreover, cannot protect yields against a total
failure of rains when the primary source of moisture for the crop is rain.
41



German Technical Cooperation (GTZ), the European Union, US Agency for International
Development, Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation) will also provide significant direct
assistance to other NGOs such as CARE and World Vision International to distribute similar seed and
input packs and teach conservation farming practices. The combined coverage of these programs
(assuming 200,000 households through the Program against Malnutrition) is estimated to be in the
range of about 300,000 farm households for the 2002/03 season, about one-third of all small-scale
farmers in Zambia.
Food-for-assets, cash-for-works, andfood-for-works. NGOs and government agencies have been
implementing public works programs in rural and periurban areas over the last decade. However, the
scale of labor-intensive works undertaken by these programs is still very low. Thus, currently even in
aggregate they do not add up to a safety net with significant coverage. The Bank's assessment is,
however, that these programs can be significantly expanded to provide opportunities for unskilled
workers in drought affected areas (and elsewhere) to earn cash or food. Below are brief descriptions
of a few of the larger and established programs.
PROGRAM FOR URBAN SELF-HELP (PUSH) is being implemented in nine districts in 23 unplanned
settlement areas. The program receives funding from the Ministry of Community Development and
Social Services (MCDSS) and has an ongoing agreement with the World Food Program for the use of
food supplies as wages. It also receives occasional funding from larger NGOs, such as CARE
Intemational. The program is concentrated in Copperbelt, Lusaka, Central and Southern Provinces.
Over 60 percent of participants are women. Participants work an average of four hours per day on
infrastructure improvement projects such as road rehabilitation, pit latrines, water wells, community
development centers and other civil works in return for a food ration equivalent of 50,000 kwacha
every ten days. Participants also partake in training programs focusing on entrepreneurial skills,
functional-literacy, reproductive health, and other topics. The program has been in operation since the
early 1990s and has been rated as fairly successful in improving access to services by participants and
providing them with life skills. Its impact as an overall safety net has been small due to the small
number of households (currently 8,000 households per year) it is able to reach with available
resources. It employs seven full-time engineers, who can work to expand PUSH works.
CARE INTERNATIONAL is also a well-established NGO in Zambia. It primarily distributes emergency
food but also has been implementing drought recovery activities such as food-for-work programs.
These works include rehabilitation of community productive assets such as feeder roads, canals, milk
collection centers, collection wells, and afforestation projects. CARE works all over the country, but
has concentrated its drought emergency efforts in six districts in Southern Province.
ZAMBIA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (ZAMSIF) under the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning has been implementing over the last two years a community transport infrastructure program
in poor rural communities. This program is a pilot which has been funded under the World Bank-
supported Roads Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP). The program maintains roads using labor-
intensive techniques to provide opportunities to eam cash to as many people as possible. It
specifically targets women and female-headed households. It has been rated successful as a small-
scale safety net program providing both cash assistance to beneficiaries and improved access to
markets and other services by poor communities.
NATIONAL ROADS BOARD (NRB). The NRB has been serving as the apex of the consortium of
agencies involved in maintaining Zambia's national roads network. It has significant experience in
implementing relatively capital-intensive works projects, and less so in undertaking labor-intensive
works. It has expanded its experience in managing labor-intensive works projects through its
management of the ROADSIP which includes a component being implemented by ZAMSIF. It has
also started to employ small-scale labor-based private contractors to carry out works on community
feeder roads.
42



FREE PRIMARY EDUCATION. This is a policy rather than a targeted program. On March 13, 2002, the
Ministry of Education issued a circular announcing free primary education for children attending
grades one to seven. The circular instructed schools not to charge students, abolished uniforms, and
announced that the ministry will pay grants to replace resources previously coming from parents. If
implemented with a sound design, strong communication strategy, and adequate, sustained financing,
the policy may allow parents from the poorest households to send their children to school.
Unfortunately, all these features have been inadequate in the initial stages of implementation.
Reports from across the country indicate that almost all students in schools in urban areas continue to
wear school uniforms. Each school, depending on its size, is indeed receiving 2.6-3 million kwacha
per term as a grant for school requisites (teaching materials, furniture, rehabilitation). Unfortunately,
the size of the grant is not directly linked either to local costs or poverty or to the funds that schools
were able to raise from parents prior to this policy shift. As a result, most urban schools feel
disadvantaged and have continued raising funds from parents. The size of the grant is more favorable
to the rural schools where the cost-of-living is lower than in urban areas. Problems persist in
enforcing the no uniforms policy since many children do not have other clothing. The new school
grant also cannot be used to buy exercise books, pens, erasers, and pencils for pupils and is very
inadequate.
It is important for the ministry to continue providing the grant to schools. It should also commission a
study as soon as possible to specify rules to allocate resource, and link the size of the grant to the
needs and performance of individual schools.
Targeted primary school bursaries. The equity and gender component of the Basic Education Sub-
sector Investment Program (BESSIP). BESSIP manages a targeted primary school bursary scheme to
pay for the school fees, levies, and other school-related costs for particularly vulnerable children.
Community committees identify eligible children. Each bursary is worth 77,000 kwacha. Initiated in
2000, BESSIP provides up to 22,000 bursaries per year. This covers fewer than I percent of primary
school students in Zambia.
The Ministry of Education works very closely with the Ministry of Community Development Public
Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS) in implementing the bursary scheme. The PWAS allocates
notional budget ceilings to its local community committees, who work with heads of schools to
identify eligible needy children. The names are then passed on to the Ministry of Education for
assistance. The district offices provide the funds for the Parent Teachers Association directly to
schools or buy school requisites for the pupils. This scheme so far has been implemented in 16
districts in all provinces. A memorandum of understanding regarding the administration of the
bursary scheme exists between the Ministry of Education and the MCDSS. To qualify for the bursary
the children must be orphans, be children of the destitute, be children of a female-headed household,
be girls who have passed grade seven but cannot proceed to grades eight and nine for lack of funds, be
children who have left school and wish to return (provided they fall within the age range).
A parallel bursary scheme covering 33 districts and involving this year about 41,000 pupils is being
implemented by the European Union. The EU has hired NGOs to identify the needy students, and
channels the money through these NGOs. The NGOs in turn buy the school requisites on behalf of
the pupils. About 65 percent of the recipients are girls. About 25 percent of the bursaries go to pupils
in community schools.'3
13    In addition, the Ambassador's Girls Scholarship Program, implemented by the Forum for African
Women Educationalists in close collaboration with the Education for Democratic Development Initiative,
offered in 2002 661 bursaries for girls in upper basic schools mostly attending boarding schools. The fees
amount to 560,000 kwacha per term per pupil to pay for school fees, boarding fees, uniforms, personal effects
and other items. Six percent of the funds go to children with special needs. Six hundred pounds sterling was
allocated for this purpose this year. In addition an international NGO campaign for female education is
supporting a number of girls in two districts in Northern Province.
43



Given that the free primary education policy is new and schools are still questioning whether
government will be able to compensate them adequately for lost revenues, parents of schoolchildren
continue to face local levies of different kinds. The bursary scheme has continued, therefore, to buy
school uniforms, second hand clothing, shoes, books, pens , pencils, and erasers for needy children to
enable them to attend school. It is also noteworthy that basic education is from grades one to nine and
fees and school uniforms have not been abolished for grades eight and nine. Many students at this
level find it very difficult to raise the mandatory fees. Assistance is also needed to enable qualified
students to attend senior secondary school, which is out of reach for many parents.
Both bursary schemes are to meet the needs of the large number of vulnerable children of school-age
in Zambia. The main constraint appear to be the slow pace at which the PWAS community-
sensitization efforts have been proceeding. The process of community training and establishment of
community-committees for identification of beneficiaries has now been completed in 58 districts.
There is now the scope, and a drastic need, to dramatically scale-up the coverage by the targeted
BESSIP bursary program. While the emphasis during the immediate emergency should be on
extending coverage (with no restructuring), the next step will be to restructure the modalities of the
bursary scheme to reflect the new free education policy.
Schoolfeeding. BESSIP has two major goals, access and enrollment, neither of which can be
achieved if children come to school hungry and are generally not in good health. The school health
and nutrition component of the BESSIP is aimed at improving the health and well being of children.
It supports the development and management of the supplementary feeding program in schools. A
special interministerial committee exists on school feeding. No concrete program of action has
materialized to date regarding an ongoing program. In response to the drought emergency, however,
the ministry and its partners have revisited the issue and are exploring options to institute a program
on an emergency basis targeted to the worst-affected districts.
Community self help. The government has been supporting community self-help schemes under the
ZAMSIF (previously the Social Recovery Program I and II) and the PUSH programs. These are
formulated as demand-led programs to improve access of poor communities to social and economic
infrastructure. They also help to build capacity in communities and district administrations to enable
them to undertake activities that improve livelihoods and enhance incomes. Social mobilization,
sensitization, and provision of skills training (project management, literacy, basic accounting,
negotiating among others) empower communities to articulate their needs, identify solutions, and
implement projects in partnership with local authorities and NGOs. Communities decide on the best
use of the available resources and on the beneficiaries.
Focusing on ZAMSIF, the community contribution paid in-kind or cash by communities working with
ZAMSIF increases the sense of ownership of the community assets. ZAMSIF has a reputation for
efficiently delivering resources to communities for direct management. Over time, it has gained
increasing responsibility for implementing the community-construction components of such programs
as BESSIP, ROADSIP, and the Environment. Its experience makes it an appropriate agency to assist
communities construct boreholes and sanitation activities to mitigate the impact of the drought.
Consumption-enhancing
Targetedfood assistance. During the current drought, the government is relying on WFP to work
directly with 29 lead NGOs to distribute food aid in the worst-affected districts. The food aid is
targeted to households based on a combination of geographic targeting (districts where production
shortfalls were highest) and indicator-based targeting (see criteria below). As described in the
government's Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Plan, the government assessed the
specific food needs of the drought affected population in 3 8 districts through a vulnerability mapping
exercise undertaken jointly with the UN agencies and NGOs in July 2002. Communities played a
prominent role in identifying specific households in need. Targeting criteria for households include:
44



female headed households, child headed households, disabled-headed households, households
supporting orphans, households facing calamities including HIV/AIDS and, farm households with less
that one hectare of land.
NGOs and district officials agree that community members are vigilant in identifying eligible
households on the basis of the criteria. However, because the number of correctly-identified
households still outstrips the levels of available food aid, the beneficiary households tend to share the
food with others in the community.
Social assistance to incapacitated people. The PWAS is one of the oldest social programs in Zambia,
but was dormant for years before the structural adjustment program in 1991 and the 1992 drought. It
was revived with budgetary financing as part of the 1991/92 drought impact mitigation program. It is
implemented by the MCDSS. The program provides in-kind assistance (clothes, food, educational
requirements, and the like) to disabled poor. Under recent reforms, the beneficiaries are selected by
community public welfare committees, which consist of community representatives. The community
committees are linked to area and district-level committees which also include NGO and district
government officers.
Although it remains the major publicly-financed program for the indigent poor during non-crisis
years, PWAS is only able to reach an estimated 10 percent of its target population due largely to
budget constraints. In recent years the government has demonstrated commitment to the PWAS by
channeling resources to it from HIPC funds.
Zambia 's social protection and humanitarian response today
Key features of existing programs include:
1. Almost all the transfer programs provide the assistance in-kind rather than in cash. Apart from
some of the agencies implementing public works, most are wary of providing cash to
beneficiaries or community committees because of problems regarding accountability for the
funds. This makes it difficult to move to move to a system of providing cash rather than
commodities. It also increases the potential importance of a cash-for-work schemes as a way of
increasing the purchasing power of cash-strapped families in the drought areas.
2. The government of Zambia has a long and relatively successful tradition of implementing safety
net programs through NGOs. Any scaling up of activities will need to rely on these same NGOs
and their implementation capacity.
3. The record of monitoring and evaluation of social safety net interventions is patchy within and
outside government. Monitoring and evaluation requires strengthening to achieve short and
medium term results.
4. Several existing implementation vehicles can be used to expand the existing coverage in the short
term. The existence and reliable track-record of existing vehicles creates space for the
government and its partners to developing and introducing new measures, such as school feeding.
5. The government of Zambia needs to take more forceful action in establishing a coordinating
mechanism for social safety nets on a nonemergency basis. At a minimum, more formalized
coordination between the DMMU and MCDSS is advisable.
45



Annex 4. Donor Response to the Emergency Drought
On July 17, 2002 the United Nations launched its consolidated appeal for Zambia. This followed the
findings of the crop and food assessment and vulnerability analysis carried out jointly by the FAO-
WFP, Central Statistical Office, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and cooperating NGOs.
The joint assessment team estimated that Zambia would face a maize deficit of 635,000 metric tons
and require humanitarian or food aid of 174,000 metric tons for about 2.3 million people in the worst
affected 38 districts. Another assessment conducted recently has revised the number of affected
population to 2.9 million, and the requirement of relief food to 224,000 metric tons. The donor
response to the appeal has been good. Seven countries have pledged food assistance amounting to
about 77,365 metric tons (table 3). The main donors include the United States, United Kingdom,
Netherlands, New Zealand, France, Italy, Tanzania and the European Commission.
In addition to the food aid, the United Nations and other donors have pledged to support the
government in health and nutrition, water and sanitation, agricultural production, education, and
special protection of children and young people. The United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), Canada, Denmark (in collaboration with WFP and UNICEF), the European
Union, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Japan are assisting farmers in the affected districts with seeds,
fertilizers, and tools. Support also includes funding for dissemination of technical messages to the
farmers and farmer training, to enable them to practice conservation farming (table 1).
A number of donors are assisting people by constructing boreholes in the areas hit by serious water
scarcity (Canada, Denmark, USAID and Japan). UNICEF is particularly active in the seriously-
affected Southern and Western Provinces in providing essential drugs for prevention of malaria and
immunization. It is also supporting drilling of 100 boreholes for drinking water. UNICEF is also
providing assistance for school attendance by supporting school feeding programs and supplying dry
rations for teachers. USAID and other donors are providing funds for the Kazungula Pontoon to
strengthen this vital transport route for bringing in food and other materials from southern Africa
(Table 2). Based on pledges made in July and August 2002, the amount of food aid from various
sources is shown in Table 3.
46



Table 1: Support for Agricultural Production
(As of September 2002)
Donor         Implementing       Target area       Target          Intervention        Duration          Amount
Agency          /province/      Population                                            Committed
district
USAID             CARE             Southem           14,500         Provision of        Six months,      Approx.
Province, Kalomo, households     seeds/ag inputs for  August 2002 to  US$0.5 million
Senanga,                         cereals and legumes,  Feb 2003
Kazungula and                    conservation
Livingstone                      farming
CLUSA             Districts        2,500
households      Provision of cassava  2002/03        Approx.
Lusaka, Central,                 planting material  Cropping season   US$0.25 million
and Northern part
of Southern
World Vision      Province
31,000          Provision of seeds  12 months
households      and cassava                          Approx.
Southern                         multiplication                       US$0.6 million
Province, Monze,                 techniques, nutrient
Choma,                           fixing plants, CF
Sinazongwe,                      techniques
Chongwe
Canada            World Vision and  Drought stricken                Improved access to                   US$1.Omillion
CARE Canada.     areas of Zambia                   seeds, tools, training,             (US$0.5 million
and land,                            for each of the
conservation                         two NGOs)
farming, knowledge
of drought
mitigation and
HIV/AIDS
awareness
Denmnark in       NGOs             Southern Province  35,000 famnilies.  Provision of   September to     Danish kroner
collaboration with                 Kazungula,                       fertilizers and seeds  December 2002  3 mnillion
WFP and                            Kalomo, Itezhi-
UNICEF.                            tezhi
47



Donor          Implementing       Target area         Target          Intervention         Duration           Amount
Agency        /province/ district  Population                                              Committed
EC (note this is  CRS, CARE,        10 districts in   48,000 farming   Provision of seeds for  8 months        E3.0 million
the commission    LWF               Southem,          families         cereals, legumes and                    (Available, subject
only. The EU                        Westem, Central                    vegetables. Cassava                     to acceptance of
includes the 15                     and Eastem                         and sweet potato                        proposals)
member states)                      Provinces                          cuttings, fruit trees.
Conservation farming.
Tools.
Fertilizers and lime.
FAO and Norway,   LMCF, CLUSA,      Central Province  25,000           Conservation farming  12 months         Sweden:
Netherlands and   CFU               Chibombo and                       and seed                                US$165,922
Sweden.                             Mumbwa.                            multiplication                          Netherlands:
LMCF, Program     Eastern Province  10,000                                                   US$1,642,405
against           Chadiza, Chipata,                                                          Norway:
Malnutrition      Katete, Nyimba,                                                            US$3,103,011
and Petauke.
Lusaka Province
Kafue, Luangwa,
CFU, Program      Lusaka.
against           Southem Province  25,000
Malnutrition,     Choma, Gwembe,
CLUSA, LMCF.      Itezhi-tezhi,
Kalomo,
Mazabuka,
Monze, Namwala,
Siavonga and                       Provision of cassava  12 Months
Sinazongwe.                        cuttings covering
Westem Province                    500 hactares and                        FAO:
establish 10 nurseries.                US$377,764 (est.)
To be determined
TOTAL:
US$5,259,100
48



Donor         Implementing       Target area         Target         Intervention      Duration           Amount
Agency           /province/       Population                                          Committed
district
Germany           GTZ / GRZ         Choma,           20,000 farnilies  Conservation                     US$1.5 million
Mazabuka,         food for work -  farming and crop                  (includes 2500
Siavonga, Monze,  CF/seed program  diversification and               metric tons food aid)
Sinazongwe,      + 2,000 families  seeds, fertilizer
Kalomo, Gwembe, food relief only   and training
Namwala in
_________________    Southern Province
Japan             AAR               Kalomo           6,000 farming     Provision of seeds  4 months     US$0.5 million
families          for cereals,                     (JPY 60.3 million)
legumes.
Fertilizers, lime
and training.
World Vision      Kalabo, Mongu     12,000 farming                     4 months        US$0.86 million
and Mazabuka     families          Provision of seeds                (JPY 102.8 million)
for cereals,
legumes.
Fertilizers, lime
and training.
Sweden            Swedish           Choma, Monze     6,000 farning     Provision of inputs  12 Months   US$0.45 million
Cooperative       and Kalomo.      families          and training in
Center.                                              conservation
Livingstone,      25,000 households  farming.        9 Months        US$0.1 million
Swedish Red       Choma and                          Training in
Cross             Siavonga.                          nutrition,
agriculture,
hygiene and
supplementary
feeding.
49



Table 2 Water and Other Interventions
(As of September 2002)
Donor         Implementing           Target        Benefiting       Brief Description of                        Amount
Agency          area/province/    Population          intervention           Duration        Committed
GRZINGO etc.           district
Canada            CARE Canada      Southem Province                Primary health-care services and           US$0.5mnillion.
Kazungula, Kalomo,              vitamin A distribution for under 5
Livingstone                     children.
Denmark in        DMMU, Local      Southem Province     35,000     Improvement of Water and      September    Danish kroner 15
collaboration with  Authorities,   Kazungula, Kalomo,   families   Sanitation, construction of   to December million
UNICEF, USAID     Southem Water    Itezhi-tezhi                    boreholes in the rural areas and  2002.    DK7m for rural.
and JICA.         and Sewage Co.,                                  periurban areas.                           DK8m for periurban.
Water Aid, Water
Aid Plus, D-
WASHES and
other NGOs
USAID                              Kazungula Pontoon               Rehabilitation of Kazungula                US$50,000
pontoon
UNICEF                             Southem and Westem              Nutrition, health (essential drugs,  3 months  Total budget for
Provinces                       malaria prevention, measles                Humanitarian assistance
immunization).                            is US$2,854,500.
Water and Environmental                    Funding/Donors
Sanitation (hygiene education,             Westem Province:
drilling of boreholes)                     Eurl.3million from
Education (school attendance               ECHO.
sensitization. Feeding program,            Food and Water Crisis;
dry rations for teachers)                  US$190,480 from Italy.
Special protection for the                 Food and Water Crisis;
vulnerable                                 US$579,273 from
Sweden.
UNOCHA (CERF
Advance):
US$2,100,000
ECHO                               Kazungula Pontoon               Rehabilitation of Kazungula   ASAP(Awai    £250,000 available
pontoon                       ting
engineer's
report and
estimates)
50



Table 3: Food aid: World Food Program
(As of September 2002)
Government/                                     Type of Food
Agency
Cereals              Pulses           Blended Food        Vegetable Oil       Total Quantity
United Kingdom        16,268                                     530                                    16,798
Netherlands            1,097                                                                             1,097
USA                   28,000               2,500                                     100                30,600
New Zealand              218                                                                               218
France                                       611                                                           611
EC                    25,000                               .__      _     _                             25,000
WFP Total             70,583               3,111                530                 100                 74,324
Other bilateral
Italy                  1,041                                                                             1,041
Tanzania               2,000                                                                             2,000
Government             3,041                                                                             3,041
Total            ___                                                                                     3_041
EC has indicated to WFP an amount of 10.0 million for Zambia, for the purchase of about 25000t of maize from regional sources, if possible.
Japan has indicated to WFP a grant of US$3.0 million for Zambia, for the food aid activities to the vulnerable groups.
Canada has indicated to WFP a grant of US$1.5million to purchase food - Canadian yellow split peas to assist families facing food shortages arising
from the drought.
51



Annex 5: Logistics of Food Distribution
Logistics offood transport
The projectedfood traffic. The projected food deficit from the drought is estimated at 630,000
metric tons. The govemment plans to meet this deficit through intemal and extemal procurement.
Of the total deficit, the private sector is expected to import 300,000 metric tons (classified as
commercial maize), WFP 174,000 metric tons (classified as relief maize) through intemational
appeals and the remaining 156,000 metric tons (classified as relief maize) by the government itself.
The government has signed a Memorandum of Agreement with the Millers Association for the
commercial maize and the Association is said to have a stock of about 100,000 within the country
in their various warehouses mainly in Lusaka. This gives a shortfall in commercial maize of about
200,000 metric tons. Of the govemment share, government through its own resources and bilateral
aid has in stock about 4,000 metric tons and has contracted a total of about 22,000 metric tons of
maize meal leaving a shortfall of about 130,000 metric tons of which the Food Reserve Agency
expects to bring in about 30,000. The WFP has received about 21,000 metric tons against donor
commitments totaling over 74,000 metric tons. In mid-September the shortfall between the need
and what has either been imported or pledged is estimated at about 433,000 metric tons. This
constitutes the minimum amount of maize which needs to be procured either intemally or
extemally. Given available information on the scope to buy maize locally, this probably translates
to an extemal procurement of about 400,000 metric tons between now and April, 2003, when the
next harvest would come in. This would mean importing monthly about 66,000 metric tons, or
13,000 metric tons per day. This would require about 430 movements of 30-ton trucks per day.
Of this, about 25 percent will be handled by WFP, 50 percent will be handled by commercial
importers, and 25 percent will be handled by the government, assuming their respective import
shares do not change.
WFP estimates that it will need to distribute between 17,000 to 25,000 metric tons of food monthly
over the period September 2002 and March 2003; its present monthly distribution is about 7,000
metric tons. In addition, it has an obligation to assist with the repatriation of Angolan refugees in
March 2003 (about 40,000 people) by providing about two months food ration.
Compared to food imports, agricultural inputs and other materials are small in volume with the
largest, fertilizer, estimated at about 48,000 metric tons. It would appear that this amount is being
procured locally with deliveries expected to start in the coming weeks.
Affected area: About 2.9 million people in 38 districts are assessed as needing direct food
assistance with 60 percent in the Southem Province, 38 percent in Westem, 37 percent in Eastem
and 31 percent in Central provinces.
Food distribution mechanism
Commercialfood distribution: This first step in the process is procurement of food material from
either intemal or extemal sources and their delivery at agreed locations. Intemal procurement has
generally taken place in the surplus regions of the country which did not suffer from rain deficit,
such as the Copperbelt, and Northem Provinces. This food was transported to Lusaka. Extemal
procurement has typically been made from the Republic of South Africa (RSA) with Westem
Transvaal preferred, and from North America. These imports enter Zambia usually by rail or
truck through Nankonde in Tanzania, Chirundu, Kariba in Zimbabwe and Kasungula in Botswana.
Little commercial food reaches below the district headquarters level due to lack of demand arising
from low purchasing power of the rural dwellers.
Emergency relieffood distribution. The government's strategy to meet the food deficit is to
procure as much of the needed food material intemally as possible, while relying on the private
52



sector and WFP for extemal procurement. Delivery from the nearest extemal source of food
import, Republic of South Africa, takes between four to six weeks by rail. The govemment and
WFP engage the services of NGOs in the affected areas to distribute relief food. No major
logistics problems are faced in getting food down to district headquarters; the major logistics
problems is present at below the district level, where their poor rural road network and inadequacy
in availability of transport services are the chief constraints.
Logistics chain in placefor distribution of relief material. Both the govemment and the WFP rely
on NGOs and the private transporters, the latter principally for transporting materials to major
urban centers, and the former responsible for distribution of the materials at the district level to
beneficiaries. Materials procured extemally are brought in through either of the three ports of
Beira, Durban, and Dar es Salaam. All these ports are planned to be used, as this will allow
materials to be taken direct to major centers (Lusaka, Chipata, Katima Mulilo), Kazangula and
Livingstone from where these would be distributed to the beneficiaries. Spreading of food
imports through timely ordering and delivery will help to even out pressure on these ports, and the
entry points in Zambia.
Assessment of available transport and storage resources
Road network. Zambia has a primary road network that is generally in good condition and
passable all year round. It also has 47,000 km of feeder and community roads most of which are
in bad condition with a significant portion not passable during rainy seasons. This is especially the
case in Westem, North Westem, Eastem, and Southern Provinces where difficult terrain and
numerous rivers often combine to make access difficult for about four months in a year of normal
rainfall. In Westem and Southem Provinces pontoons and boats are the only means of access to
the more remote but quite populated areas.
Vehicle capacity. Trucking fleet of private sector is estimated at between 400 and 500 trucks of
mainly 30- ton capacity each. This represents capacity to move about 12,000 and 15, 000 tons of
materials daily. This capacity is supplemented by extemally owned trucks which bring materials
into Zambia, but are allowed to carry goods on local runs within Zambia. The private sector has
very few 5 and 3 ton vehicles and 4x4 or 6x6, type vehicles that are capable of operating in the
rural areas. WFP has a mix of 10 and 5 ton trucks, and it has signed an MOU with Oxfam for
provisioning 10 4x4 10- ton vehicles which will be used at Katima Mulilo in Westem Province for
getting food to affected refugees. The WFP has been loaned 118 6x6 5- ton capacity trucks by
the International Federation of the Red Cross as a gift from the Norwegian government. These are
expected to be returned at the end of the present emergency. It is not clear if WFP trucks could be
used for movement of materials procured by government and being distributed by its partners.
This point should be clarified during negotiations. In addition to the above, the government has a
fleet of tractors (38 Nos.) purchased during the last drought of 1991/92 which are currently
managed by the WF. A recent inspection indicates that 26 of these can be readily repaired. The
current demand assessment shows that about ten more tractors would be needed to supply food
which cannot be reached by heavy trucks.
Enough trucking capacity seems to be available to meet the projected daily movement needs
between major urban centers and the district headquarters and other major towns. The area of
constraint relates to moving food within a district, where the number of smaller trucking units
available for hire are relatively few. Strengthening of the WFP fleet and repairs and new purchase
of tractors will go some way in alleviating this problem. It is however important that these
vehicles are available not only to WFP but also their partner NGOs whose operations are crucial
for reaching food to the ultimate beneficiaries.
Rail transport. Two rail systems, the Zambia National Railways which will be operating under
concession from November 1, 2002, and the Tanzania and Zambia Railways Authority (TAZARA)
are the main rail transporters. The latter is the principal capacity for the movement of goods into
53



the country from the port of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, while the former is responsible for intemal
movement of goods from the railhead at Kapiri Mposhi to Lusaka. With its concessioning to
Spoomet of South Africa, it is expected that the Zambian Railways will increase its traffic
movement from Republic of South Africa. TAZARA has a holding fleet of 61 mainline
locomotives of which only seven are in good condition and operate the Zambian traffic. Trains
operate in groups of 30 wagons (each wagon carrying 50 tons) thus giving a load of 1,500 tons per
rake. The average annual haul of TAZARA in the last three years is 600,000 metric tons, but in
the previous five years it averaged 750,000 metric tons In the crucial a six month period of the
current emergency, close to 300,000 metric tons ton can be moved by TAZARA. The standard
schedule to cover the 1,860 kilometers toumey from Dar to Kapiri Mposhi should take 4 days,
with an additional day to move further on to Lusaka. Typically however, the journey can take as
much as 11 days due to delays in trans-shipment in Kapiri Mposhi, and speed restrictions on the
Zambian Rail track between Kapiri and Lusaka. The trans-shipment delays are often due to lack
of shunting locomotives, which also causes delay in off-loading in Lusaka.
TAZARA charges US$63.24/ ton for transporting maize from Dar to Lusaka, but has presently
reduced the tariff to US$57/ton. Fertilizer movement is charged at the same rate. Additional
rebate for bulk movement can be authorized by the Managing Director. TAZARA is presently in
discussion with three suppliers for the delivery of 200,000 metric tons of maize into the country;
and has secured a contract to transport 48,000 metric tons of fertilizers. The above freight rates
include fees of freight forwarders for traffic moving between Lusaka and Republic of South Africa
and for traffic between Dar es Salaam and Lusaka.
Derailments on the Zambia Railways is due to low ballast and weak sleepers. Remedial works are
continuing but existing program of repairs and improvements would take longer, and may not help
the current emergency.
From the above analysis, it would appear that there is sufficient capacity in the rail system to
meet potential demand of the current emergency. However, for reliability it is recommended that
some remedial works are carried out to reduce possibility of derailment and to reduce speed
restrictions.
Road transport rates: Rates charged by transporters have increased significantly over the last
year, especially between Lusaka and Republic of South Africa. For example, last year, the typical
rate for road haulage between West Transvaal and Lusaka was US$45 per ton; this year it has
increased and varies between US$65 and US$85 per ton. As the crisis within the region increases,
and the available truck fleet comes under greater pressure of demand, these rates are likely to
increase further. The cost per ton kilometers for traffic such as maize by road within Zambia is in
the range of US$0.04 and US$0. 10, the higher rate applying for short distances and the more
difficult destinations.
Food transport costs. About a third of the total cost of relief food is attributable to transportation
from source of procurement to the place of consumption. In the case of WFP relief food, the
transportation costs are usually included in the donation. This will, however, not be the case for
the government relief food, and a budget provision would need to be made for the transportation
from importing ports, and movements within the country. Assuming that the estimated 30,000
metric tons of food to be imported by the Food Reserve Agency will fall into this group, a
provision of US$2.5 million would be needed to meet these costs.
Alternative routesfor imports. Relief materials are sourced principally from the Republic of South
Africa, Europe and North America. Those from Europe and North America can come in through
either of the ports of (a) Dar es Salaam in Tanzania (then transported by road onward to Lusaka
through Nankonde); (b) Beira in Mozambique (then onward through Malawi into Chipata or
Lusaka); and (c) Durban in Republic of South Africa (then onward to Livingstone or Lusaka
through Chirundu, Kariba and Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe). Maize shipments, sourced directly
54



from Republic of South Africa are mainly from Western Transvaal and transported by road
entering Zambia at Kasungula via Botswana. Transport costs through the Republic of South
Africa routes are regarded slightly cheaper than those from the north through Tanzania. Noting
that these ports will also be used by other countries which are similarly affected by the present
drought, the considered opinion is that with good and well coordinated forward planning, the ports
and the trucking industry have the capacity to meet anticipated regional demand. The key
constraints are more likely to be those internal to the countries such as the bad state of the
pontoons at Kasungula in the case of Zambia. Locomotive and rolling stock availability is not
regarded a problem given the prevailing cooperation arrangements between the rail operators
involved in shipment of goods to hire these equipment amongst themselves.
Storage facilities. The parastatal Food Reserve Agency has a storage capacity of approximately
1.5 million metric tons principally in Lusaka and major urban centers in the smaller facilities
scattered all over the country. The DMMU and other government agencies rely on this storage
capacity; besides the private sector rents storage space from the Food Reserve Agency. The WFP
has its own storage capacity for 20,000 metric tons located in Lusaka (12,000 metric tons),
Livingstone (3,000 metric tons) and Chipata (about 5,000 metric tons). It considers these to be
sufficient under normal operational circumstances when distribution takes place in a planned
manner. In the private sector, the millers generally have enough storage capacities of their own,
and the private sector companies such as Sable are investing in these facilities. The installed
storage capacity is therefore regarded as sufficient for projected needs, if no serious bottle-neck is
created as a result of distribution problems.
Addressing identified constraints
The government's basic strategy in dealing with the task of moving relief materials to the people in
the affected 38 districts should be underpinned by good coordination of the activities of all
stakeholders involved in ordering, shipment, certification, customs processing, storage and
distribution of relief materials. By so doing, it would avoid the bunching of relief food arrivals,
minimize double handling and reduce storage and transport costs. The government should also
take steps to improve the systems in place for tracking internal movement of relief materials, to
ensure their safe and timely distribution to beneficiaries. Crucially, government should make sure
that institutional barriers are removed to allow full utilization of logistical resources available
within the country. To address identified transport and logistics problems, the following specific
recommendations are made:
General: (a) forward planning to ensure timely placement of orders for procurement of relief
materials; (b) through consultations between DMMU and WFP and their partners, ensure that
needed military resources are mobilized in time to address problems which civil resources will not
be able to address; (c) establish procedures for ensuring that available transportation resources
(vehicles, tractors, and the like) are allocated on the basis of need between DMMU, WFP and
partner NGOs involved in distribution of food materials:
Specific.
(a). Strengthen capacity of Operations, Logistics and Management Unit of DMMU, and fill in
vacancies.
(b). Recruit on short-term basis, an experienced logistics professional with hands-on experience
of field management of logistics operation of the magnitude which would be mounted during
the next 12 months - a draft terms of reference is attached (estimated cost US$72,000 plus
cost of 4x4 vehicle with radio).
(c) Develop logistics operations manual for the unit.
(d) Establish communication and operations center within the unit (estimated cost US$45,000).
(e) Improve rural road network in key locations in the 38 affected districts using labor intensive
work methods. This is estimated to cost about US$7,000,000.
(f) Repair and rehabilitate some presently unserviceable pontoons (estimated cost US$600,000).
55



(g) Install 12 bailey bridges at critical river crossings (estimated cost US$480,000).
(h) Repair and rehabilitate 26 tractors that have been inspected and classified as repairable
(estimated cost US$90,000).
(i) Procure ten new tractors and distribute tractors such that all affected districts needing tractors
for haulage have at least one tractor readily available (estimated cost US$150,000);
(I) In consultation with DMMU and WFP, Roads Department and NRB prioritize critical
bridges that need to be strengthened, and undertake works (estimated cost US$400,000).
(k) Zambia Railways to undertake strengthening (ballast and sleeper replacement) of rail track
beds to prevent derailment and to curtail speed restrictions (estimated cost is US$850,000).
Food transport cost. In addition, US$2.5 million needs to be provided for the transportation of
about 30,000 metric tons of government relief material into the country and their internal
distribution.
56



Annex 6: World Bank's Support for Drought Mitigation
A.     Emergency Drought Recovery Project interventions
Component A. Quick-disbursing assistance tofinance a positive list of imports (US$35 million)
The Bank's emergency assistance will finance a positive list of imports needed for drought
mitigation. The positive list includes:
(i)    Agricultural equipment and inputs
(ii)   Petroleum and fuel products
(iii)  Construction material
(iv)   Transport vehicles, motor bicycles, bicycles and spare parts
(v)    Livestock and animal products and veterinary supplies
(vi)   School supplies and equipment
(vii)  Medical supplies and equipment
(viii)  Construction equipment.
The imports would be used to restore agricultural production, repair and improve rural roads and
bridges, improve water supplies for both human and animal consumption, provide transportation
services, and supply schools and medical services with essential supplies.
Component B. Safety net interventions aimed at improving access to marketsfor essential
commodities and services by vulnerable groups (US$ 7 million)
Objective. The safety net program aims to alleviate the impact of the drought on vulnerable people
and improve their livelihoods by providing in-kind or cash assistance to households for 18 months
through labor intensive road and other infrastructure improvement activities. Indirectly, the
component will help to stimulate the rural economy and enhance welfare by improving access of
people to essential goods and services.
Description. This program will consist of spot improvements (construction, repair, rehabilitation,
and maintenance) to public assets in 38 districts in poor rural and urban districts most affected by
the drought using labor intensive work methods. Assets include feeder roads, community roads,
roads in periurban and urban areas, sanitation and drainage structures in urban and rural areas. The
works (subprojects) are estimated to cost an average of US$20,000 for improvement of about five
kilometers of road, culverts, and small bridges and related drainage structures. The road sections
need not be along the same road link. Over 700 projects will be carried out, improving about
1,700 kilometers of feeder and community roads. Consultants working with the NRB will identify
the interventions in coordination with the department of roads, local authorities, and communities.
The works will be executed using small-scale certified labor-based road works contractors, NGOs,
or other groups employing workers from the area where the sub-projects would be implemented.
The road works will be selected based on their locality (drought affected areas), priority for
communities, and local authorities.
Activity selection criteria. All implementing agencies will use the following criteria to select
works to be financed under this component:
I . Labor content of total subproject minus administrative cost is at least 60 percent,
administrative costs and overhead is no more than 10 percent, tools and other operating costs
account for 30 percent.
2. Women comprise at least 60 percent of employed labor force.
3. Employed labor will be paid 5,000 kwacha per day, prorated according to hours worked.
4. No more than one member per household will be employed per project.
57



5. The project will be carried out by labor-intensive works methods on a task work basis using
simple and proven technical approaches, and be ready for immediate implementation once
approved.
6. The works will be located within about 15 kilometers of the target community.
7. Participants will not be expected to work on average more than four hours per day, based on a
flexible schedule.
8. Childcare facilities will be available (for example elderly women paid by the program to take
care of children) at work sites where necessary to facilitate women's participation.
9. All subprojects will be in one of the 38 districts identified as affected by the drought.
10. All subprojects will be completed within a period of 18 months and have an implementation
period no longer than three months.
Target group. The target groups under this component are the vulnerable people living in the 3 8
districts most affected by the crisis. The vulnerable may be divided into four groups: (a)
vulnerable and inactive (relief recipients, unable to work); (b) vulnerable and active (relief
recipients, but able to work); (c) affected, but coping and able to participate in cash-for-work
schemes or benefit from self-employment; and (d) unaffected (potential beneficiary as provider of
project-financed works and or services). The subcomponent will target groups (b) and (c). It will
help move as many people into group (d) as possible. The program will also especially target
women by requiring at least 60 percent of people employed to be women. To facilitate the
participation of women, childcare facilities will be provided at works. The subcomponent will
target the poor by offering wages equivalent to the current minimum wage for unskilled labor
(5,000 kwacha per day). This is the same as the wage rate being used by NGOs in food-for-work
programs.
Benefits and risks. An estimated 5,760,000 person days of employment (equivalent of 288,000
beneficiaries working 20 days each) will be created through the subcomponent. In addition, about
3,500 kilometers of road sections will be improved, and culverts, bridges, and drainage structures
will be repaired or provided. The labor content of works other than road rehabilitation may be less
than 60 percent. However, communities, district councils, and implementing NGOs are
encouraged to select works with high labor content. The component will significantly increase
food security, incomes, and access in the areas where the subprojects are implemented.
Major risks relate to: (a) the remoteness of some areas, making supervision difficult; (b) lack of
responsiveness of the people in cash-for work opportunities because food is not available in the
market for purchase and cash holds little value; (c) inadequate attention to quality of work by
project implementers because of the emergency nature of the activities; (d) poor flow of funds to
program implementers and thus to beneficiaries; and (e) poor monitoring and evaluation of
program activities and impact. To mitigate these risks, the subcomponent will (a) rely on agencies
and groups with ongoing operations in the subproject areas to implement subprojects; (b) rely on
the NRB for supervision; (c) ensure activities are coordinated with distribution of commercial and
relief food; (d) ensure that all implementers have good track records in implementing the type of
activities with which they are being entrusted; (e) disburse funds to NRB and, through NRB, to
other implementing agencies on a quarterly basis with replenishment against reconciled monthly
statement of accounts (the NRB has a good track record in coordination, financial management,
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation of complex activities undertaken by several
implementing agencies); and (f) agree with each implementing agency monitoring and evaluation
indicators to be reported to NRB on a quarterly basis.
Implementation arrangements. The program and its budget will be administered by the NRB
under the Ministry of Communication and Transport. The NRB will also serve as the secretariat
for a program steering committee chaired by the DMMU and consisting of the Ministry of
Communication and Transport, NRB, Ministry of Local Govemment and Housing, department of
roads and all implementing agencies. The NRB will convene meetings of the steering committee
every three months or so to review implementation progress and any other program related issues.
58



The NRB will coordinate the implementation of the program and other infrastructure rehabilitation
activities and ensure program implementation based on agreed guidelines. The NRB will also
ensure that the program budget, activities, and geographic coverage are divided among the various
implementing agencies. It will also provide support for supervision to implementing agencies
where necessary. It will provide quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the works,
and technical audits and financial statements to the Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit and
the World Bank. It will submit every six months audited financial statements.
Under the administration of the NRB, five agencies will implement the in-kind or cash-for-work
programs. They are the Ministry of Local Government and Housing, CARE International,
Program for Urban Self-Help (PUSH), World Vision International, and the Zambia Social
Investment Fund (ZAMSIF). Implementing agencies will pay laborers on a weekly basis at the
agreed wage rate-cash or in kind-equivalent. They will implement the subprojects themselves, or
subcontract implementation to skilled/certified small labor-based works contractors. All
implementing agencies and small contractors will be provided with resources to cover their
operating and administrative costs (up to 10 percent of program cost). In the case of NRB, this
resource will be up to 15 percent of the costs of road works to cover costs of administration,
services of consultants and contractors identifying works, design and implementation, and the
overall coordination of the works. Where contractors are used, the contractor will be responsible
for timely payments to laborers on a weekly basis at the agreed wage rate. To ensure flow of funds
to beneficiaries and to minimize misuse of funds, all small works contractors and NGOs will be
required to keep a roster of people employed per project (verified and initialed by community
representatives) which will be submitted as part of supporting documentation of the monthly
statement of expenditures. In cases where payments to laborers are made in food or in agricultural
inputs obtained through noncommercial channels (such as the WFP), the implementing agency
will provide written assurance to the NRB (in the form of an agreement with the supplier covering
program implementation period) that the food or inputs will be available in a timely manner. The
NRB will ensure through spot checks of subprojects that contractors comply with the agreed
guidelines. Contractors who are in violation of the agreements will be barred from the program.
The NRB will be responsible for providing every month statements of expenditure along with
supporting documentation to the DMMU. The NRB will appoint a financial management
specialist/accountant to be responsible for the safety net component. It is expected that the NRB
will use the financial management system and the human resources available to them under the
ROADSIP project, supplementing capacity with resources provided under this program. Each
implementing agency will submit to the NRB statements of expenditure every month and financial
statements every six months. The flow of funds for ZAMSIF will follow guidelines in its
Development Credit Agreement.
Only minor procurement is expected under the safety net component. Procurement will be for
purchase of equipment and materials needed to for roads maintenance and other small
infrastructure rehabilitation projects. As average project cost is fixed at a maximum of
US$20,000, either local shopping methods will be used or larger purchases of goods and services
will be made according to World Bank procurement guidelines.
Monitoring and evaluation. The NRB will coordinate the monitoring and evaluation of the safety
net component using the facilities available under the ROADSIP project. A specialist will be
appointed for this task. The existing resources may be supplemented through resources available
under this component. A program monitoring template will be developed and agreed among all
implementers. The template will include the following indicators:
Number of people employed and paid per project
Number of people employed and paid per month
Number of women employed and paid per project
Number of women employed and paid per month average
59



Number of days of employment per person
Wage rate being paid (cash or in kind)
Geographic location (district and name of community)
Type of project
Cost per project
Total administrative cost per project
Duration of project
The safety net component is expected to become a long-term feature of the safety net system in
Zambia. An evaluation of this program will help decision makers in designing effective and
financially sustainable safety net programs. A safety net review to be financed under the EDRP
will recommend approaches that can be used during emergencies and while providing adequate
protection for the needy during normal times.
Component C. Distribution of a package of agricultural inputs and technologies (US$7 million)
Objectives. The proposed intervention will provide agricultural inputs, training in appropriate land
and water management techniques to improve the capacity of an expanded number of targeted
farmers to engage in agricultural production for the upcoming season (2002/3). The proposed
intervention shall be implemented within the framework of the introduction of Technology Packs
carried out by NGOs It will be similar to the Food Security Pack implemented by Program
against Malnutrition and other NGOs but would differ on the area the service will be provided.
The main technological components of the program will be diversified seed and planting materials
and conservation farmning (including soil fertility inputs).
The seed and planting materials will be delivered in a basic empowerment pack to support an area
of land under cereal, legume and root or tuber. The table below shows a technology pack that was
delivered by Program Against Malnutrition and satellite of NGOs in the past two years. This
technology pack will be designed to optimize natural soil processes and to balance food security
requirements of resource poor households.
Table 1: Sample Content of Technology Pack by Agro-Ecological Region
Package                        Pack by Agro-Ec logical Region
Region I        Region II       Region III     Region III
Plateau        Valley
Cereals             Sorghum         Improved Maize  Finger Millet  Rice
Bulrush Millet  Sorghum         Maize
OPV maize       Rice
Legumes             Cowpeas         Groundnuts      Beans          Beans
Root and Tuber Crops Cassava        Cassava         Cassava        Sweet potatoes
Sweet potatoes  Sweet potatoes  Sweet potatoes  Cassava
Other Crops                         Sunflower       Castor bean    Palm oil
Castor bean     Horticulture   Sugar cane
Horticulture                   Banana
Inputs and                          Sun hemp        Agricultural
Conservation                        Sesbania sesban  Lime
Farming Technology                  Fertilizer
NGOs implementing this program will work closely with specialized institutions including
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives extension workers, to train farmers in conservation
farming using fast-track and medium-track methods where appropriate.
60



The pack shall generally be free to the farmers. However, NGOs will encourage farmers to
contribute to community cereal banks in kind. Each community would manage its cereal/seed
bank based on contributions from beneficiaries. The cereal/seed banks would be managed by
cereal bank manager appointed by members of the community. The initial stocks would come
from repayments in the first year. Beneficiaries would pay back an amount to be determined by
the communities together with the NGOs.
There will be need for the program management to link in with related community programs such
as the Rural Investment Fund and the Zambia Social Investment Fund, so that on-storage
infrastructure can be improved for inputs and grain.
Target group. The target group for the program shall be vulnerable and food insecure farmers in
all districts of Zambia with priority for resource allocation given to the worst affected areas in the
18 districts identified by the Joint FAO-WFP/GRZ/NGO vulnerability assessment team. These
farmers have low physical level of activity, resulting in reduced labor for food production.
HIV/AIDS has worsened this scenario. Most are headed by women. These households do not
have adequate resources to subsist, and cannot participate-in labor intensive cash crops to
supplement their food needs. Most of them do not own livestock, equipment or machinery. They
do not produce for the market. Their earnings are so low that they cannot afford to buy basic
needs. This intervention however, is capable of raising their productivity to levels that can enable
them meet subsistence needs and gain a surplus for sale.
Targeting methodology and criteria for selection of beneficiaries. The targeting criteria used will
be the following: households cultivating less than one hectare of land; female-headed households;
households headed by children; disabled households; households supporting orphans; household
affected by natural calamities; unemployed youth. At the national level, statistics on the national
food security status have been used to determine the number of beneficiaries in each district. At
the community level, the community welfare assistance committees have used the criteria
developed above to identify the farmers who are vulnerable. A registration form will also be used
to identify beneficiaries. In order to qualify, beneficiaries will need to have cleared land, show
willingness to adopt conservation farning where the technology is advised and be willing to
contribute to the community cereal/seed bank. In many cases there are more beneficiaries who
meet the targeting criteria than there are resources to reach them. Under these conditions NGOs
will rely on the local level community selection structures to make final decisions on who should
benefit.
Implementation arrangements. A national steering committee, comprising representatives of
MCDSS , the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the DMMU and others will oversee the
work under this program. NGOs will implement the program through their network of community
based organizations. All participating NGOs will coordinate, orient, sensitize and train
cooperating partners; procure, mobilize and distribute seed and planting materials; monitor and
ensure timely reporting and auditing (i.e. registration forms, accounting guidelines and paper
trails). Implementing NGOs and community based organizations will work with community
welfare assistance committees to select beneficiaries; work with extension services to train
beneficiaries; manage and account for materials procured from the credit prepare and submit
progress reports to the district and area food security committees; the steering committee and
DMMU staff that have oversight responsibility will encourage the formation of an NGO
Coordination Forum to ensure overlap and leakages are minimized.
Financing plan and procurement. About US$7 million has been set aside for this program. The
program would incur direct purchase and transport costs related to the inputs. In addition, there
would be costs related to capacity building training in conservation farming, cereal/seed banks
establishment and management, and marketing and entrepreneurial skills for farmers and local
NGOs.
61



Participating NGOs, which will be selected by the DMMU based on IDA procurement guidelines,
will submit detailed budgets to the DMMU not exceeding US$2 million for each NGO. The
DMMU will assess the implementation capacity of NGOs at selection stage.
Incremental costs associated with the technological pack eligible under the EDRP can be broken
down into broad categories, for which two financing mechanisms are available. An amount to be
determined by the DMMU and agreed by the Bank will be covered under the fast-disbursing
component of the project if the items are in the positive list. Procurement has to take place as per
guidelines agreed with IDA. These items are also eligible for retroactive financing. Other costs
can be covered in the investment component that is provided under DMMU for this intervention.
Program monitoring. Monitoring will involve various levels at community level using peer group,
extension and community based organizations. At the district level, the satellite committees and
community-based organizations will do the monitoring. At provincial level, the disaster
management committees and the agricultural extension service will provide monitoring and
follow-up activities. A beneficiary impact assessment survey in the target communities will be
conducted before the closing date of the project.
Animal disease controlprogram The livestock sub-sector comprises approximately 2.8million
cattle, Imillion goats, 80,000 sheep, and 480,000 pigs with the largest population found in the
traditional sector. Livestock distribution in the country indicates that Southem, Eastern, Western
and Central provinces all drought affected areas account for 89 percent of the cattle population.
Eastern and Southern Provinces have 80 percent of the goat population and 83 percent of the total
pig population. The effect of the drought on livestock is multi-faceted. Reduced rains lead to
reduced grazing and drinking water. The poor grazing results in animals trekking longer distances
in search of grazing pastures and water. The walking of long distances reduces the time available
for grazing leading to weaker and more disease prone animals. Drought forces animals to
concentrate in small areas accelerating the spread of diseases. As animals lose condition as a
result of poor grazing they are predisposed to disease. Most dip tanks close down due to lack of
water to replenish the tanks. High animal mortalities are experienced during droughts
exacerbating the chronic problem of animal diseases control. The link between high cattle
mortality and rising poverty levels has been established. Statistics on animal mortality as a result
of the current drought are unavailable.
The rapid privatization of veterinary services contributed to high animal mortalities as many
farmers could not afford the high cost of veterinary services. The government has proposed an
emergency animal disease control program. This proposal is targeted at the control of diseases of
national economic importance. These are mostly diseases of an epidemic nature, have significance
or are major zoonoses. They all affect the productivity of livestock either through direct losses
caused by mortality and decreased production or indirect losses resulting from effects on trade,
draught power, manure etc. The major diseases of national economic importance covered in this
proposal are contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, foot and mouth disease, theileriosis (east coast
fever), tsetse transmitted trypanosomosis, anthrax and rabies.
The operational cost of the Government's disease control program will supported under EDRP and
the import of vaccines will be handled through imports, if covered under the positive list.
Expected output. The program would assist in the following outputs: 25,000 cattle will be treated
for ECF; 100,000cattle will be vaccinated against ECF; 950,000 cattle will be vaccinated against
CBPP; 290,000 cattle will be vaccinated against FMD; 280,000 cattle will be vaccinated against
Anthrax and 40,000 people at risk will be protected. Livestock mortalities caused by
corridor/theileriosis or east coast fever and bovine pleuropneumonia will be reduced by over 70
percent.
62



Implementation of these activities will be carried out by the field staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives under the supervision of the deputy director, and assisted by the
chief veterinary officer in the department of research and specialist services. The technical
advisory group will provide technical assistance to ensure efficiency and effective coverage.
Component D: Improving early warning system and disaster management and mitigation capacity
(US$1 million)
Under the proposed project support has been provided to (a) strengthen the DMMU by recruiting
key specialists who would assist the DMMU in the short-term to implement a time bound program
in 24 months under a quick disbursing credit, and provide training to the local govemment staff as
a part of the capacity building objective; (and) (b) catalyze the development of government
capacity in the long-term to handle droughts and famines and other disasters. The support for the
long-term measures includes strengthening the national meteorology office data analysis and
forecasting capacity, and technical assistance (i) for streamlining and strengthening the
institutional and organizational arrangements for Early Warning in the govemment; (ii) to review
and finalize govemment's disaster mitigation and management policy; (iii) preparation of a
national drought and famine code; and (iv) to strengthen data collection, monitoring, and
dissemination systems in the key govemment agencies. The study recommendations would likely
require investment decisions to improve and strengthen the system over time, and the government.
has agreed to pursue the implementation of these recommendations under the ongoing and
proposed World Bank and other donor investment operations such as the proposed IDA-supported
and soon-to-be finalized Agricultural Development and Support Project.
Strengthening the Zambia meteorology department. This organization is using old instruments
from the 1 950/60s, nearly 13 district do not have appropriate equipment or instruments,
institution's capacity for data analysis and forecasting is weak, and because of resource constraints
this vital organ at the forefront of the early warning chain has not been able to perform its tasks
satisfactorily, marginalizing the effort downstream as well. Action is proposed on two fronts: (i)
to provide technical assistance for a professional study to recommend the upgrading of the weather
monitoring and forecasting system, and (ii) meeting the immediate equipment requirements of the
Meteorology Office.
Streamlining the organizational arrangements. A study is proposed to streamline the system by
situation analysis of the roles and responsibilities of the key government agencies involved in early
warning, their current location, study options for organizational re-location for optimum utility and
effectiveness, and re-structuring of the key institutions/organizations as warranted consistent with
effectiveness, efficiency and economy, and to provide specific recommendations for human
resource development.
Strengthening the DMMU. The addition of a large portfolio under the proposed World Bank credit
would increase DMMU's burden and weaken it further. It is therefore proposed to strengthen the
DMMU with the addition of a sub-section, which would handle the World Bank project activities,
and have the required specialists to assist DMMU to implement a time bound program of 24
months under a quick disbursing credit. The sub-section would be headed by EDRP Coordinator,
and staffed by a procurement specialist, a financial officer and a logistics specialist with
appropriate support staff like a steno and a typist. Funding for operating cost, procurement of
vehicles and office equipment will be provided. The government request for technical assistance
for the following key activities/studies which would help achieve the policy and operational
sustainability objectives of the disaster mitigation and management initiatives of the government
will also be supported: (i) to review and finalize the government's disaster mitigation and
management policy; (ii) consistent with the national policy on disaster, and the provisions of the
proposed disaster management bill to prepare a detailed drought and famine code to provide
guidelines for step by step implementation to all the actors involved in these activities at the
community, district and national levels; (iii) to establish an appropriate data collection, analysis
63



and dissemination system and an MIS together with recommendations for institutional
strengthening and capacity building in this regard, and hard/soft ware requirements to operate the
system.
Strengthening the MCDSS. It is proposed that resources be provided to carry out studies to assist
(a) MCDSS to redefine its role and responsibilities in respect of the nation-wide safety net
interventions, review capacity of the ministry and all other agencies responsible for
implementation on the ground, and suggest an appropriate structure and operating procedures to
enhance focus on and effective implementation of the social safety net initiatives;(b) enhance
monitoring, evaluation functions of the MCDSS Department of Planning and provide an effective
MIS; and (c) prepare a long term social protection strategy.
B.     Support under the existing bank portfolio
The Bank has undertaken a portfolio review to determine additional/complimentary sources of
funding in support of the proposed EDRP, to broaden drought mitigation and recovery activities.
The projects that have implementation capacity, experience in related areas and which would not
require major restructuring and processing time in amending Development Credit Agreements
were chosen for this purpose and include projects such as the National Road Rehabilitation
Program (ROADSIP), Power Rehabilitation, Railways, Mine Township Project, ERIPTA which
supports the privatization process as well as Zambia Social Investment Fund, which supports a
demand led approach to community development.
The intervention discussed below will have to be discussed and details about the operations
prepared. The project implementing agencies have to take full responsibility for the
implementation of the proposed intervention and the Ministry of Finance and National Planning
would coordinate these initiatives. Where reallocation of project fund from one category to
another is needed, timely actions have to be taken by the implementing agencies, Ministry of
Finance and National Planning and the Bank.
Safety nets (US$12.2 million)
A public works program similar to the one funded under EDRP and discussed above will be
implemented by Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF). The major difference between the
two is the source of funding and the modality of operation. ZAMSIF under the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning has been implementing over the last two years a Community
Transport Infrastructure program in poor rural communities. This program is a pilot, which has
been funded under the ROADSIP program. The program is a labor-intensive road maintenance
program, which provides cash assistance to beneficiaries. It specifically targets women and
female-headed households. The primary objective of ZAMSIF is providing a safety net but its
emphasis of working with communities to empower and train them in the management of
resources may, in the long term, provide valuable returns in terms of greater self-reliance. Its
experience in demand-driven rehabilitation and construction of small-scale infrastructure also
makes it suitable to use as an implementation vehicle for dip tanks, small dams, boreholes and
sanitation activities being proposed by various agencies in the context of the drought mitigation
efforts. The funding for public works and other community driven interventions will come form
ZAMSIF and a limited amount from ROADSIP.
Emergency Supplemental School Feeding Program (US$5 million)
Objective. The objective of this intervention will be to keep children in school and to encourage
those that are staying away to come back to school. The Ministry of Education has not yet
implemented its school feeding program. Therefore, during this food crisis a response is necessary
especially for girls who may be forced to stay home to help look for food.
64



Description. The program is conceived as having two activities: (a) a daily high energy protein
supplement being distributed at school to all the children attending the targeted schools. The high
energy protein supplement should be provided as the first activity at school (breakfast for children
attending the morning shift and lunch for those arriving for the aftemoon shift); and (b) a monthly
targeted take-home ration supplement to children from particularly disadvantaged households
qualifying for free food distribution conditional on continued school attendance by the child. The
proposed high energy protein supplement ration will be determined in accordance with WFP,
UNESCO and WHO guidelines aimed at providing acceptable energy, protein and fat levels. For
ease of distribution, the ration will be preferably in the form of a fortified biscuit. The take home
ration would consist of one 25 kilograms of maize meal per pupil per month for six months. This
would have to be provided by the donor community through WFP. This will be considered for
vulnerable households and will be provided in accordance with the WFP food families during the
food crisis period.
Geographic coverage. The Ministry of Education has decided that only the 18 worst-affected
areas should be covered under this phase of the proposed program. This includes the districts
shown in table below. The intervention will target both community and government schools in
these districts.
Districts to be targeted under the emergency school feeding program
Number of
Province      District       Number of        Beneficiary
Beneficiary Schools  Schoolchildren
Southern       Choma                 128          48,541
Province       Gwembe                33            7,630
Ithezhi-tezhi         20            5,240
Kalomo               108           37,845
Kazungula             47           11,254
Livingstone           28           22,025
Monze                 94           36,331
Namwala               38           14,477
Siavonga              33            9,943
Sinazongwe            36           14,232
Eastern        Chadiza                38          11,630
Province       Chama                  64          14,547
Lundazi              134          361,921
Mambwe                29            8,959
Nyimba                36           10,763
Petauke               99           32,043
Western        Senanga                69          16,966
Province       Sesheke                65          12,948
TOTAL               18             1,099         677,295
Beneficiaries. The estimated number of students in the affected districts is 400,000. The program
would cover about 200,000 students focusing on the hardest hit areas among the 18 districts. The
students to be targeted are those who are in basic education i.e. in grades 1 to 9 in the 18 districts
in Southern, Eastem and Western Provinces. The age group is from 6 to 16 years. The project
should include some component of food ration to teachers as well. Girls should be especially
targeted because they are likely to be the most affected by the hunger situation as the families
would turn to the girls first to look for food.
65



Benefits and risks. School attendance in the affected districts is expected to increase. It is also
expected that if the high energy protein supplement is provided at the start of school activities, the
child will also have better concentration and learning than if they were sitting hungry in class.
Long-term drop out rates may also be reduced. Since this is a new activity, there are also risks to
the activity. The start-up of the activity may take a long time, diluting its impact on school
attendance. The contracting of an organization (to be determined) with international experience in
this type of activity, is a key factor in mitigating this risk. Another risk is that the response from
households may be unexpectedly large and many children will appear at school, while the school
authorities are not equipped to handle this influx. The Ministry of Education is being asked to
assess the need for top-ups to the BESSIP grants to the target schools in order to enable them to
manage this potential increase in the numbers of children attending school.
Implementation arrangements. A special interagency committee has been set composing WFP, the
World Bank, UNICEF and the Ministry of Education and others that will examine the modalities
of implementing this scheme. The current thinking is that WFP or UNICEF will be the apex
organization managing this component on behalf of Ministry of Education. The apex organization
would be responsible for procurement and distribution on behalf of the cooperating partners.
However this is still under discussion, alternatively Ministry of Education may be able to
implement the program through its district staff. The apex organization will contract one or two
large food processing companies to produce and distribute the high energy protein supplement,
using competitive procurement procedures. This approach will be adopted to accelerate the start-
up of the activity. The WFP, WHO, and UNICEF will provide nutritional and hygiene standards
to the high energy protein supplement manufacturers and will also monitor that these standards are
strictly observed. It may be necessary to contract the distribution to districts and schools to local
NGOs.
Unit costs and financing plan. The cost of providing this ration will be at least 20 cents per child
for 200,000 pupils will be US$4.8 million. Approximate costs for the distribution of food
supplements is estimated at US$0.2 million. A total of US$30, 000 would be required for the
studies bringing the total amount of this intervention to US$5.03 million.
A financing plan will be prepared for the intervention, whereby different donors and agencies are
expected to contribute resources. It is proposed that the World Bank meet the financing gap from
the existing BESSIP credit. The high energy protein supplement subcomponent can be financed
under Bank rules, as long as procurement guidelines acceptable to IDA are observed. The take-
home ration of food will not be financed by the Bank.
Scaling up the BESSIP Bursary Program (US$1.5 million)
Scale and coverage. The existing BESSIP bursary scheme would be expanded to cover 50 percent
of the affected pupils at primary school level in severely affected sch6oos in the 18 districts during
the life of the Emergency Drought Recovery Credit. The BESSIP bursary scheme is not expected
to encounter significant problems in expanding the scheme rapidly to cover many more primary
school children this year as the mechanism is already in place and PWAS has completed its
sensitization in these districts.
Benefits and risks. School attendance in the affected districts is again expected to increase. A risk
is that the response from households may be unexpectedly large and many children will appear at
school, while the school authorities are not equipped to handle this influx. The Ministry of
Education is being asked to assess the need for top-ups to the BESSIP grants to the target schools
in order to enable them to manage this potential increase in the numbers of children attending
school.
Implementation arrangements. A memorandum of understanding has been signed between the
MCDSS and Ministry of Education for the administration of the bursary scheme. A special
66



committee has been set between the two ministries to oversee the administration of the scheme.
MCDSS through PWAS has a district and area network through out the country that assist poor
people. PWAS in conjunction with the heads of schools identify and establish needy children.
The names are submitted to Ministry of Education for funding. The checks are released to the
district education offices who in turn buy the school requisites required by the pupil. In case of
PTA fees, the money is paid directly to the school by the district office. Sensitization of the
relevant officials both from Ministry of Education, MCDSS and the communities has been
completed. BESSIP accounts have been opened in all districts making payment much simpler and
faster. Scaling up of this program would not be a major additional challenge to the Ministry of
Education.
Removing critical transport constraints (US$0.85 million)
Making improvements to the rural road network in key locations in the 38 affected districts using
labor intensive work methods as well as repair and rehabilitation of some presently unserviceable
pontoons and bailey bridges at critical river crossings, and repair and rehabilitation of old
equipment and acquisition of new equipment are important interventions envisaged under this
emergency mitigation plan. The initiatives would include:
Repair and rehabilitation of presently unserviceable pontoons. Two pontoons, the 'Zambezi' and
'Chobe' operating at Kazangula have been diagnosed after inspections carried out in August as irn
need of urgent repair and rehabilitation. These pontoons provide a vital link for the movement of
materials from Republic of South Africa to Zambia and also from the inter land to areas of
Westem Province for which no road access is available. Their present condition constitutes a
major constraint on the cost effective movement of materials. on traffic has increased the load on
the pontoons.
Of the two ferries operating at Shesheke in Westem Province, only one is operationai. The
operational ferry is water-logged, requires new engines, repair to loading ramps, lifting arms and
winches, etc.
Install bailey bridges at critical river crossings. About 23 baileys are in various locations in the
country awaiting installation. Designs for their installations have been done. It is recommended
that DMMU, WFP and the Roads Department meet to determine priority locations for the location
of these bridges in view of the emergency situation. Installations can be carried out using military
personnel especially where they need to be relocated from their present site. A total of 18 of these
are projected to be installed in response to the emergency.
Four bridges in Southem and Western Provinces have been identified as needing to be
rehabilitated to prevent their collapse. This work will help to keep open critical road sections used
for the movement of relief materials. The bridges are in Muyanda in Choma district; Kalobo in
Mazabuka district; Matabele in Senanga district and Luanja in Sesheke district.
There are about 26 tractors that have been inspected and classified as repairable. These are owned
by the government and were procured during the last emergency. They are under the management
of the WFP in various districts. They are essential to addressing the critical problem of moving
relief materials from the district headquarters to beneficiaries, especially in the flat flood plains
and valleys of Western, Southern and Eastem provinces.
These are needed to augment the 26 old tractors with new tractors to ensure that each of the
affected districts will have at least one tractor available.
Undertake track beds strengthening (ballast and sleeper replacement) and purchase spare parts for
wagons. This intervention will allow track bed strengthening to be carried at known locations
67



between Kasala in the south and the copperbelt where trains are prone to derailment, the purchase
of derailment jack and repair of wagons to improve their operational safety.
The proposed interventions can be started immediately upon approval and completed by January
2003 prior to commencement of the concessioning agreement. The detail cost breakdown is as
follows:
Rolling stock              Procurement of wagon wheel discs  US$80,000
Procurement of wagon brake system  US$80,000
Procurement of one derailment jack  US$90,000
Track bed improvement Procurement of 30,000 wooden sleepers  US$450,000
Procurement of tarpaulins        US$100,000
Total budget                                                US$850,000
Financing of spare parts, equipment and construction materials will be through the positive list of
imports, and the US$850, 000 for railways will come from on going IDA-supported project.
68



Annex 7: Portfolio Assessment - Alignment and Reallocation Options
The Bank has undertaken a portfolio review to determine additional/complimentary sources of
funding to the Emergency Drought Recovery Project, to support drought mitigation and recovery
activities. The projects, which have implementation capacity, experience in, related areas and
which would not require processing time in amending Development Credit Agreements were
identified. Zambia's portfolio consists of 12 active projects. Although there is un-disbursed
balance (US$225.69 million) under the current portfolio, a large portion (80-85 percent) of these
funds are committed especially under infrastructure projects such as National Road Rehabilitation
Program (ROADSIP), Power Rehabilitation, Railways, Mine Township Project, ERIPTA, which
supports the privatization process as well as Zambia Social Investment Fund which supports a
demand led approach to community development.
The following projects: Basic Education Sector Investment Program (BESSIP), ZAMSIF,
Environment Support Project (ESP) and Public Sector Capacity Building Program (PSCAP) could
support drought mitigation and recovery activities up to US$27.5 million through internal
reallocation of resources within these projects. These projects are most suitable for reallocation
due to their: (i) previous experience in targeted safety net activities; (ii) their ability to scale up or
modify existing programs rapidly; and (iii) implementation capacity. After further consultation
with the implementing agencies and supervising ministries, the Government has decided to use
about US$21 million for safety net interventions in support of the ERDP financed activities.
BESSIP: Funds from this credit will support (i) the existing school bursaries program, (ii) a
targeted emergency supplementary school feeding program, and (iii) a program of water and
sanitation projects at schools in worst hit districts. These interventions will be implemented by
Ministry of Community Development and Social Services, Disaster Management and Mitigation
UnitlWorld Food Program and ZAMSIF, respectively. Total proposed re-allocation under BESSIP
is US$11.5 million.
ESP: There is US$3.0 million available under this credit, which can be re-allocated towards
drought assistance. However, the processing of the re-allocation may require some time as the
Development Credit Agreement would need to be amended as well as a Board approval obtained.
PSCAP: This credit supports capacity building in various government agencies thus can be used to
strengthen the immediate implementation arrangements of the EDAC as well as provide support
for longer term capacity building especially in the Ministry of Community Development and
Social Services and Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit towards improving monitoring and
coordination of emergency and other safety net programs as well as developing a cohesive, longer
term social protection strategy for the poor and vulnerable. Activities to this effect would be
accommodated under the regular operation of this project.
ROADSIP: The National Roads Board, the implementing agency for the ROADSIP, will be
coordinating the labor-intensive public works program to be implemented by several agencies
including ZAMSIF and one or more NGOs in the worst affected districts. This program will be
providing cash assistance to unskilled laborers from very poor and drought affected communities
that the works will be implemented at. The program will be drawing on NRB's expertise on road
maintenance works as well as supervision, financial management and monitoring capacity. Thus,
even though the public works program will be funded under the EDAC, the ROADSIP program
will be realigned to respond to the drought emergency.
ZAMSIF: Using its own implementation structures, i.e. district and provincial technical staff,
ZAMSIF will be also implementing a labor-based public works program in the worst affected
districts. ZAMSIF and NRB will coordinate on the implementation of the total program. There is
existing central and local capacity within ZAMSIF in labor based works as it has been
69



implementing the Community Transport Infrastructure portion of the ROADSIP program. The
program will encourage affected districts to give priority to the implementation of works projects
(defined by communities), which have high labor content (e.g. road maintenance and
rehabilitation, small dam rehabilitation, drainage, etc) and will facilitate drought relief and
recovery. For the duration of this program (October 2002-December 2003), unskilled laborers will
be provided cash assistance and communities where projects are located will not be expected to
contribute towards project cost.
ZAMSIF will also be responsible for the implementation of the school water and sanitation
facilities rehabilitation program to be funded through a re-allocation from BESSIP. ZAMSIF
already is responsible for implementation of school infrastructure and related facilities under
BESSIP.
Railways Restructuring Project: This project will support track beds strengthening (ballast and
sleeper replacement) and improvements to wagon repairs operations, which is expected to cost
about 0.85 million.
Project Portfolio Status
As of October 24, 2002
(in million US$)
Re-allocation
Project name      Credit Amount        Disbursed         Undisbursed       towards Drought
Recovery
Railways                 27.0               18.66               8.34               0.85
ROADSIP                  70.0               56.10              13.90               0.4a
PSCAP                    28.0                8.78              19.22              tbd b
ERIPTA                   30.5               21.97               8.53
Mine Townships           37.7                9.60             28.10
ESP                      12.8                6.20               6.54               3.0
BESSIP                   40.0               18.90              21.10              11.5 c
ZAMSIF                   64.7               16.94             47.76               l .8d
EDP                      45.0               44.28               0.72
Regional Trade           15.0                3.70              11.3
Facilitation
TEVET                    25.0                0.33              24.67
Power                    75.0               39.49              35.51
Rehabilitation
TOTAL                  470.7              245.01             225.69               27.55
a. This amount was already available under the Community Transport Infrastructure facility, an ongoing labor intensive
road works program, implemented by ZAMSIF.
b. In principle, resources for capacity building in the Ministry of Community Development and Disaster Management
and Mitigation Unit can be made available upon request.
b. Amount may be revised downwards once the cost of the emergency feeding program is firmed up.
c. This amount is available to 38 targeted districts as their three year allocation and some portion of these funds will still
be used for other community infrastructure within the regular framework of ZAMSIF. However, districts/communities
will be encouraged to use these funds-on a priority basis- towards labor intensive works/drought recovery activities
(cash-for-work program) whose processing will be fast-tracked.
70



Annex 8: Districts and Population in Need of Food Aid
Administrative Information           Sept. thru Nov. 2002         Dec. thru March 03
Province    District       Population'                Number                       Number
percentPopulat  Population in  percentPopulat  Popualtion
ion            need          ion            in Need
in need                      in Need*
Eastern     Chadiz              87,418            41         35,820            55       48,229
Eastern     Chama               80,294            51         41,060            77       61,590
N/western   Chavuma             35,059            28          9,890            54       19,013
Central     Chibombo           257,141            54        137,523            67      172,021
Luapala     Chien               87,935             0             0              0            0
Copperbelt  Chililabombwe       92,735             0             0              0            0
Northern    Chilubi             63,095            35         22,083            35       22,083
Copperbelt  Ching              193,899             0             0              0            0
Northern    Chinsa             137,287            10         13,591            15       20,593
Eastern     Chipat             384,186            25         97,222            38      134,222
Southern    Chom               215,686            62        132,370            67      143,417
Lusaka      Chong              153,550            60         91,329            63       95,612
Southern    Gwembe              35,425            82         28,841            83       29,173
Northern    Isoka              107,140            31         33,300            31       33,300
Southern    Itezhi-tezhi        49,180            52         25,256            64       31,327
N/Western   Kabompo             80,271             0             0              0       16,054
Central     Kabwe              194,878             0             0              0            0
Lusaka      Kafue              172,144            70        119,368            75      129,005
Western     Kalabo             128,221            30         37,863            43       54,729
Southern    Kalomo             177,643            55         96,915            68      120,270
Copperbelt  Kalulushi           79,512             0             0              0            0
Central     Kapiri             203,273            20         41,365            25       51,724
Northern    Kaputa              91,882             0              0             0            0
Northern    Kasama             190,894             0             0              0            0
N/Western   Kasempa             59,298             0             0              0            0
Eastern     Katete             193,612            41         79,333            55       10,816
Luapula     Kawambwa           110,079             0             0              0            0
Southern    Kasungula           70,168            75         52,713            75       52,713
Copperbelt  Kitwe              424,684             0             0              0            0
Southern    Livingstone        167,780             3          5,595             6       10,235
Lusaka      Luangwa             23,329            78         18,300            78       18,300
Copperbelt  Luanshya           170,442             0             0              0            0
N/Western   Lufwanya            69,811             0             0              0            0
Western     Lukulu              66,240            23         15,383            36       23,533
Eastern     Lundazi            251,149            44        108,849            60      150,787
Lusaka      Lusaka           1,170,611             0             0              0            0
Northern    Luwingu             88,446             0             0              0            0
Eastern     Mambwe              55,107            45         24,628            63       34,619
Luapula     Mansa              193,621             0             0              0            0
Copperbelt  Masaiti            106,773             0             0              0            0
Southern    Mazabuka           254,739            50        125,699            55      140,816
Northern    Mbala              171,370             0              0             0            0
Luapala     Milenge             28,925             0             0              0            0
Administrative Information              Sept. thru Nov. 2002         Dec/02 thru March 03
Central     Mkushi             116,217            31         35,572            38       44,495
Western     Mongu              176,755            24         42,261            35       61,201
Southern    Monze              175,835            58        101,602            66      115,519
71



Northern    Mpika              154,165            16         23,991            21       31,914
Copperbelt  Mpongwe             74,275             0             0              0            0
Northern    Mporokoso          104,367             0              0             0            0
Northern    Mpulungu            70,372             0              0             0            0
Copperbelt  Mufulira           166,820             0             0              0            0
N/Western   Mufumbwe            46,533            20          9,307            40        18,613
Central     Mumbwa             163,554           -56         91,316            70       114,223
Northem     Mungwi             150,862            20         30,172            20       30,172
Luapula     Mwense             114,225             0              0             0            0
N/Westem    Mwinilunga         139,524            40         55,810             0            0
Northern    Nakonde            162,899             0              0             0            0
Southem     Namwala             87,745            49         42,551            59        51341
Luapula     Nchelnge           120,586             0             0              0            0
Copperbelt  Ndola              430,308             0              0             0            0
Eastern     Nyimba              71,132            43         30,669            60       42,377
Eastern     Petauke            257,303            43        110,936            60       153,289
Luapula     Samfya             177,025             0              0             0            0
Western     Senanga            117,372            30         35,312            44       51,100
Cental      Serenje            138,691            33         44,971            43       59,049
Western     Sesheke             83,455            39         32,623            50       41,519
Western     Shangombo           70,756            29         25,489            42       36,853
Southem     Sinazongwe          85,270            73         61,687            73       61,687
N/Western   Solwezi            216,743             0              0             0            0
N/Western   Zambezi             70,756            29         20,493            55       38,962
Urban
Urban Orphans and Vulnerable Children (4 towns)                             97,000      97,000
Total Urban and Rural
Total           10,951,751            22      2,367,481            26     2,869,710
72



Annex 9: Key Performance Indicators
1. Imports under the positive list                   US$35 million of imports
2. Saftey Net (public works) program
Number of individuals participating in the programs  160,000
Kilometers of roads improved                      1400
3. Agricultural inputs distribution and animal health
a) Number of farmers supported by the program     120,000
Animal health services
East Coast Fever (# of cases treated)            reduction form 120,000 to 50,000
Trypanosomiasis (# of cases treated)             reduction form 20,000 to 15,000
CBPP (#of outbreaks)                             reduction form 6 to 1
Anthrax (# of outbreaks)                          from 5 to 2
4. Capacity Building
a) Streamlining institutional arrangement for early warning:- complete study and adopt
recommnendations.
b) National drought and famine code:- complete preparation and adopt code/guideline.
73






3-on yiko
X  Z  A  M  B  I A              <               A          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T A N Z A N I A 
Z  A   M    BIA                                               T. Mby.Mol  T
-    TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS  RIVERS
\      -  ~~~~~~RAILROADS  c PROVINCE BOUNDARIES  <Komb  \ _        )5           I-:2
SELECTED CITIES  INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES                                  -tt
i)PROVINCE CAPITALS KAA  ,,.i,
i9 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  C/          /%1        i , 
>__DEMREPOFCOGDEM REP. OF CONGO
Mpi~~~~~~~~~~o
A K
A   N     0                                                       e0:^ L AW I 
§MONGU   <__  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ))) ~~~~~~~/~~~   VAWN~~~CiONG  BUOUN D -
)   SS  ,  lleZ ll t     ,>"  =  ;  S A  E: A h           .  REP OF CONGO  TANZANIA f~~~~~~~~~~DE. RP. F CNGO TANANI
DOLA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ AGL
,  0 U )' ZO  Z  Chmekee,                    CHIPAA   MALAWI
NBOTSWAA  BOTSWAND 
coLer~~~~~~,   eny Oe ~ ~ ~ ~ M   EP.OF NG
o iocnton  o T.ee   bodre.-









IMAGING
Report No.: T      7559   ZA
Type:     TAN



