Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-2381-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
November 30, 1978
|This doemet hwas  r edtkl disiWou _ may be _e by rewiplms olr in Te puam    f|
thefGWdutk  oelb Imtsb may not sdwiw be lbze$  wIdmut Ww  Ibm  a_ktion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of November 15, 1978)
Rs 1.00                =      Paise 100
US$1.00                =      Rs 8.305
Rs 1.00                =      US$0.1204
Rs 1 million           =      US$120,400
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the disburse-
ment period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEO  -   Agricultural Extension Officer
DAE  -   Directorate of Agricultural Extension
DOA  -   Department of Agriculture
GOI  -   Government of India
SMS  -   Subject Matter Specialist
T&V  -   Training and Visit
VEW  -   Village Extension Worker
VLW  -   Village Level Worker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:          The States of Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka,
and GOI's Directorate of Agricultural Extension.
Amount:                 US$25.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Standard.
Relending Terms:        From GOI to Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka:
as part of Central assistance to State devel-
opment projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project
Description:          The project would:  (i) reorganize and strengthen
agricultural extension services in the three pro-
ject States, with the objective of achieving early
and sustained improvements in agricultural pro-
duction, particularly of foodgrains; and (ii)
strengthen the Central Government's Directorate
of Agricultural Extension in order to increase its
ability to support State agricultural extension
programs.
Estimated Project                                        (US$ million)
Costs:                                           Local  Foreign   Total
Incremental Staff           15.9      -      15.9
Civil Works                  8.7      -       8.7
Vehicles and Equipment       3.4    1.4       4.8
Training                     3.2      -       3.2
Incremental Operating
Costs                      8.5    1.8      10.3
Monitoring and
Evaluation                 1.1      .1      1.2
Subtotal               40.8    3.3      44.1
Price Contingencies          7.4      .6      8.0
Physical Contingencies       1.2      .1      1.3
Total /a               49.4    4.0      53.4
/a  Inclusive of US$3.2 million in taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                               (US$ million)
Local Foreign Total
IDA                              21.0     4.0    25.0
GOI and State Governments        28.4       -     28.4
Total                         49.4      4.0    53.4
Estimated                                              (US$ Million)
Disbursements: 1/                   FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85
Annual        .5    4.0   4.5   5.5   5.0   4.5   1.0
Cumulative   .5    4.5   9.0  14.5  19.5  24.0  25.0
Rate of Return:          At least 50%.
Appraisal Report:        No. 2171a-IN, dated November 30, 1978.
1/   According to IDA fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$25.0 million on stand-
ard IDA terms to help finance a US$53.4 million project to strengthen GOI's
Directorate of Agricultural Extension and the agricultural extension services
in the States of Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka. A portion of the proceeds
of this credit (US$1.6 million) would be used for the Directorate of Agricul-
tural Extension and the remainder channelled to the Governments of Gujarat,
Haryana, and Karnataka in accordance with the Government of India's standard
terms and arrangements for financing State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas, their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the National Agricultural Research
Project (No. P-2380-IN), dated September 21, 1978.



- 2 -
international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from State to State.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 250
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and



- 3 -
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround occurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with 1.3
million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved extension
system, which has been getting heartening results, has been introduced in
several States and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and
good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The
circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the develop-
ment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall invest-
ment and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7%
per annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum
during the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--has been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more States and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several States in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricul-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to



- 6 -
the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the
century, implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best
guess" projection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many
of the benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of
the century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier
change in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow
more slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the
primary and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will con-
tinue to grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s,
resulting in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force
from 40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development. With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts
and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability



-7 -
of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 55 loans and 108 development
credits to India totalling US$2,236 million and US$6,077 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$934 million had been
repaid, and US$1,652 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of September 30,
1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.7 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.4 million, US$26.7 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



- 8 -
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.  Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



lending. As of September 30, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled
US$1,343 million, of which US$539 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$804 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
B'ank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN INDIA
30.       Agriculture is the dominant sector in the Indian economy.  It con-
tributes about 45% of India's domestic product, engages nearly 70% of the
labor force, and provides the base for approximately 60% of India's exports.
For all its importance to the economy, however, agricultural production in
India has grown relatively slowly, the annual rate of growth not exceeding
3% per annum for any extended period over the past several decades. Recent
agricultural performance has provided a basis for optimism about the future
of Indian agriculture. The growth rate in the period from 1975 to 1978 was
measurably higher than that which prevailed from 1970 to 1975. Value.added
in agriculture between 1975 and 1978 averaged 4% a year, while in the preced-
ing five years it had hovered at just over 1% per annum. It is too early to
say whether performance in recent years represents a change in the long-term
trend of agricultural growth in India. As yet, however, this rising growth
has brought only marginal change in the living standards of India's rural
poor, conservatively estimated at some 200 million people. 1/
31.       Given its objective of national self sufficiency in food production
and the existing pattern of relatively slow growth and low incomes in the
agricultural sector, the Government of India's recent development plans have
placed a heavy emphasis on spurring agricultural growth. Government plans
have sought especially to raise foodgrain production by increasing the use of
irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and seeds of improved
varieties. In support of its aims, GOI has modernized and expanded its agri-
cultural credit institutions and accelerated the development of India's irri-
gation network. More recently, in an attempt to improve cultural practices
and expand the use of modern inputs, the Central and State Governments have
turned increased attention to the task of improving agricultural extension
services in India and upgrading the agricultural research capability that
supports the extension effort.
1/   Estimated rural population with incomes below the absolute poverty level
of US$70 per capita per year.



- 10 -
Traditional Extension and Its Weaknesses
32.       Responsibility for agricultural extension in India rests with the
State Government Departments of Agriculture. While the organization varies
from State to State, the Department of Agriculture generally has officers at
the State, zone, district, subdivision, and block levels. While technical
guidance for these local officers comes from the Department of Agriculture,
at the district level, where they are called District Agricultural Officers,
they are typically under the administrative control of the District Collector,
a generalist responsible for law and order and the coordination of all other
governmental activities in the district. Below the district level, where they
are called Agricultural Extension Officers (AEOs), they are responsible to
the Block Development Officer, an official of the State Community Development
Department. Actual extension work with farmers is done by Village Level
Workers (VLWs). These are multi-purpose workers employed by the States'
Community Development Departments and supervised by the Block Development
Officer, but intended to spend 75-80% of their time on agricultural extension
under the direction of the AEO.
33.       While fairly widespread and relatively well-staffed, India's tradi-
tional extension service system suffers from a number of weaknesses. Chief
among them are the following.
(a) The lack of a single, direct line of both technical support
and administrative control from the Department of Agriculture
to extension workers in the field, combined with the multi-
purpose role of the field-level extension worker, results
in an extension service less concentrated on agricultural
support than intended. VLWs typically spend less than 20% of
their time on agricultural extension. Moreover, given the
tenuous link between the VLW and the Department of Agricul-
ture, what agricultural work is done is generally neither
planned systematically nor supervised adequately.
(b) The VLW is typically responsible for providing service to
too many farm families, sometimes as many as 2,000, often
spread over a large area. This large area of jurisdiction
combines with a shortage of vehicles and appropriately
located housing for VLWs to make close, regular contact
between the extension workers and the farmers very difficult.
(c) Training of extension workers is generally confined to pre-
service training, much of which is quickly forgotten and
soon out of date in any case. In addition, training pro-
grams are typically theoretical and provide little oppor-
tunity for practical application of what has been learned.
(d) The link between the extension services and research
activities is weak. Therefore, extension messages lack
continued updating while agricultural research tends
toward academic questions only remotely related to
farmers' problems.



- 11 -
(e)  The effectiveness-of the extension service having been
hampered by the factors described above, the extension
workers suffer from low status, low pay and low morale.
(f) Finally, in an effort to bypass or supplement unsatisfactory
extension services, special extension schemes focussing on
specific crops, areas or techniques have been introduced.
This has proven expensive, and often duplicates services
extension workers are supposed to provide, thus causing
resentment on the part of the VLWs and confusion on the
part of the farmers.
The Training and Visit System
34.       In response to the evident shortcomings in the traditional agricul-
tural extension system, the Government of India has endorsed the reorganization
and strengthening of State extension networks along the lines of what has been
labeled the Training and Visit (T&V) System of extension. The key elements
of this system are frequent (bi-weekly) in-service training for field extension
workers and regular, scheduled visits by fieldworkers to farmers. Under this
system, existing Village Level Workers (redesignated Village Extension Workers
(VEWs)) are relieved of all duties except for the delivery of agricultural
extension services and are placed under the administrative and technical juris-
diction of the State Department of Agriculture. Staff assigned to special
crop or area-related schemes are merged with the regular extension staff into
a single, unified extension service. Acting on the basis of regularly-held
practical training sessions, conducted by Department of Agriculture Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs), VEWs visit groups of "contact farmers" (see para
43(a) below) on a fixed schedule and teach them new agricultural practices.
The contact farmers, in turn, try out the practices recommended by the VEW and
explain the recommendations to others, their fields providing a demonstration
ground. Extension messages are geared to the season and local conditions and
initially concentrate on improving cultural and agricultural management prac-
tices. Later, when farmers are more able, more confident, and better prepared
to absorb an element of risk, extension messages cover use of purchased inputs
and more costly investments (e.g., tubewells, agricultural chemicals).
Implementation of the Training and Visit System in India
35.       The Training and Visit System is in various stages of implementa-
tion in several States in India -- West Bengal, Orissa, Assam, Bihar, Andhra
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. In all of these areas,
the system is being introduced under IDA-assisted projects. In some cases
(e.g., West Bengal, Orissa, Bihar) an attempt is being made to cover the
entire State, while in other cases the program will cover for the moment
only selected districts. At present, the T&V System covers about 12.8 mil-
lion farm families. When they are fully developed, the existing projects
will serve over 22 million farm families out of a total of roughly 70 million
for all India, and will cover 35 million hectares of crop land.
36.       While it is premature to expect comprehensive systematic yield data
from the monitoring and evaluation systems being set up under these projects,



- 12 -
early results in areas where the T&V System is being implemented are very
encouraging. In areas where crop-cutting experiments or surveys of cultural
practices have been carried out (e.g., Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Devel-
opment zone), crop yields and adoption of high yielding varieties have been
seen to rise substantially on farms served by the reformed extension service.
Farmers' and extension workers' response to the system has been very enthu-
siastic. Encouraged by the impact the T&V System is having in the areas where
it is operating, the Government is seeking to apply it more generally through-
out India. Since the approach relies primarily on the use of existing staff
and facilities, its incremental cost is relatively low. Moreover, the orga-
nizational structure is built around the administrative pattern prevailing
in most parts of India and the system has operated in a fairly wide range of
agro-climatic and socio-economic situations, including tribal areas.
37.       While the results obtained thus far under the T&V System are im-
pressive and the system seems to offer considerable promise for the future,
it is not implemented without difficulty. Central to the system is the
transfer of a large number of multi-purpose workers (VLWs) from the Community
Development Department to the Department of Agriculture. This is a major
reorganizational effort which requires sustained political and administrative
commitment. In some of the States currently implementing the T&V System,
the speed and effectiveness of implementation has been hampered by the govern-
ment's initial hesitation to sanction the required reorganization. A second
difficulty that has been encountered in attempts to implement the T&V System
is the insecurity extension workers may feel during the transition period.
Experience has shown that as an important adjunct to the inter-departmental
transfer of personnel, extension workers must be assured that the transfer
will not adversely affect their pay, allowances and benefits, or opportunities
for promotion. Proper phasing of the transfer of existing VLWs, the recruit-
ment of new VEWs, and the training for both groups has also proven a difficult
task, at least initially, for State Departments of Agriculture. Finally,
implementation of the new system can be hindered by delays in obtaining bud-
getary sanctions for the additional staff positions, vehicles, and equipment
State Departments of Agriculture require to introduce the system. Valuable
experience in developing appropriate procedures for dealing with these poten-
tial problems and efficiently implementing the T&V System has already been
gained by GOI and the States that have instituted the system. In order to put
this experience to use and to facilitate the extension of the system to addi-
tional States, GOI intends (under the proposed project) to strengthen its
Directorate of Agricultural Extension, with the aim of improving this agency's
ability to assist the States in the reorganization of their extension services.
Bank Group Activities in Agricultural Extension
38.       The Bank Group has actively assisted India's effort to reorganize
and strengthen its agricultural extension system since 1974, when extension
components pioneering the T&V System in India were included in the Bank-assisted
Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 502-IN, July 31, 1974)
and the Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project (Ln. 1011-IN,
June 19, 1974). Similar extension components were also included in three



- 13 -
subsequent irrigation projects -- the Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area
Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, June 20, 1975), the Andhra Pradesh Irriga-
tion and Command Area Development Composite Project (Ln. 1251-T, June 10,
1976), and the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project (Cr. 720-IN, June 30, 1977)
-- as well in the areas targeted for minor irrigation works under the West
Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 541-IN, April 28, 1975). The
system covered both irrigated and rainfed farms in the administrative areas
served under these projects. Building on the experience gained with the T&V
System under these irrigation projects, the Bank Group, in 1977, lent its
assistance to six State-level agricultural projects which were largely
focussed on the introduction of the T&V System of extension: the Orissa
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN, April 1, 1977), the Assam
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, June 30, 1977), the West Bengal
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN, June 1, 1977), the
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 712-IN,
June 1, 1977), the Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 737-IN, November 14, 1977), and the Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 761-IN, January 6, 1978).
39.       The best opportunity to test the feasibility of widespread imple-
mentation of the T&V System has come through the six State-level projects.
All of these projects are young and are in the early, most difficult stages
of implementation. In four of the States -- Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Orissa
and Rajasthan -- the program is progressing well. Recent supervision missions
found evidence of a very encouraging impact in the field, with farmers respond-
ing well to the system and demonstrating high rates of adoption of recommended
practices. In two of these States, Orissa and Rajasthan, changeovers in the
State governments after project approval brought reconsideration of the under-
lying concept and administrative requirements of the T&V System and accompany-
ing initial delays in the issue of administrative orders and financial sanc-
tions necessary for full-fledged implementation of the program. However, State
Government commitment to the program has now been reconfirmed, steady progress
in building up the extension organization is being made, and field work is
progressing well. In Bihar, the State Government's preoccupation with political
events caused a few months' delay in the initiation of the T&V System. However,
the administrative and budgetary orders necessary to implement the program
were issued in September 1978 and the Department of Agriculture is initiating
program implementation. In West Bengal, where the extension and research
project provides for a State-wide expansion of the T&V System, first initiated
in selected disticts under the West Bengal Agricultural Development Project, a
changeover in the State Government has slowed the momentum built up through an
initially promising start in project implementation. While some 3,600 VEWs
have been assigned to work full-time on agricultural extension under the
direction of the Department of Agriculture (DOA), the State Government has
still to transfer budgetary and payment authority over these workers to DOA.
The new government's initial vacillation over the T&V System and its failure
to take this final step in the personnel transfer has blurred the line of
command between the State DOA and the VEWs, which has reduced the effective-
ness of the extension system. However, the Government of India has recently
informed us that the Minister of Agriculture (GOI) has now received confir-
mation from the Chief Minister of West Bengal that the new State Government



- 14 -
is committed to the effective operation of the T&V System. While the Govern-
ment of West Bengal is currently preoccupied with relief operations in the
aftermath of recent floods, GOI is optimistic that a satifactory solution to
the administrative delays in the West Bengal project can be achieved.
40.       Given the major conceptual change involved in shifting from multi-
purpose functionaries to single-purpose extension workers, and the adminis-
trative decisions which are required to establish a professional extension
service and transfer thousands of staff from one department to another, it
is not surprising, although unfortunate, that certain State Governments
(particularly new governments) have wished to review and reconsider carefully
all the implications of the T&V System. Political and administrative hin-
drances notwithstanding, however, field visits to areas where introduction of
the system has gone ahead have consistently shown that as States gain expe-
rience in operating such an extension system, substantial improvements are
made both on farmers' fields and in the quality of the extension service
itself.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was prepared by the Governments of Gujarat,
Haryana, and Karnataka in consultation with GOI. Project proposals were sub-
mitted by all three States and GOI by February 1978 and appraisal was carried
out between March 6 and April 14, 1978. A report entitled "Appraisal of the
Composite Agricultural Extension Project" (No. 2171a-IN, dated November 30,
1978) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in September 1978. The Governments of India,
Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka were represented by a delegation headed by
Mr. R. C. Sood.
Project Description
42.       Objectives.  The experience gained in the existing State-wide ex-
tension projects in India has encouraged GOI to broaden the scope of its
efforts to foster the T&V System by extending this system to three new States
at once -- Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka. The proposed project would re-
organize and strengthen the agricultural extension systems in these States
in accordance with the pattern set by the Training and Visit System with
the objective of achieving early and sustained improvements in agricultural
production. In order to ensure the States adequate support and guidance in
their efforts to reform and operate their extension services, the project
would also strengthen GOI's Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DAE),
which is responsible for monitoring and assisting State extension programs.
43.       State Components.  Introduction of the Training and Visit System of
extension in the three project States would require not only reorganization
of their existing extension services, but also employment of additional staff,
provision of training for extension workers and support staff, and supply of
vehicles, housing, and equipment for extension workers. These individual
elements of the State project components are summarized below.



- 15 -
(a) Extension Service Reorganization. Under the proposed project,
each State would establish an agricultural extension service
under the direct and exclusive jurisdiction of the State
Department of Agriculture (DOA). The process of establish-
ing this service has already been initiated by administrative
orders (issued prior to negotiations), transferring a substantial
portion of the existing Village Level Workers in each State,
formerly under the direction of the State Community Development
Departments, to the staff of the State DOA. All existing
agricultural extension and special scheme field staff would
also be merged into the unified extension service.
The Village Level Workers transferred to DOA, now redesig-
nated Village Extension Workers (VEWs), along with newly
recruited VEWs, would provide service to 700-800 farm
families each, the exact number varying according to pop-
ulation density and accessibility. The families assigned
to each VEW would be subdivided into eight small groups,
usually of less than 100 farmers each. Out of every group,
eight to ten contact farmers would be selected to act as
primary contacts for the VEW. Each group of farmers would
be visited regularly by the VEW on a given day during a
two-week cycle. During these visits the VEW would transmit
to the farmers extension messages he has received at bi-weekly
training sessions held by DOA Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs).
Training and visits would take nine days out of each VEW's two-
week cycle. The remaining three working days would be devoted
to field trials, making up missed visits, and occasional office
work.
Supervision of the VEW, under this system, would be the
responsibility of the Agricultural Extension Officer (one
AEO supervising 6-8 VEWs). The AEO would in turn be re-
sponsible to the Subdivision Agricultural Officer and his
staff, who report to the District Agricultural Officer and
his staff. Subject Matter Specialists at the subdivisional
and district level would assist in training and provide
technical advice. SMS teams would divide their time be-
tween field visits (for guidance and support to lower level
staff), research (including field trials), and training.
(b) Incremental Staff Requirements. Following the transfer of
a number of multi-purpose extension workers to full-time
work in agriculture and their merger with extension staff
from special schemes, each State will require additional
VEWs, supervisory personnel, and Subject Matter Specialists
to reach desired staffing levels. Staff requirements vary
between individual States, and assurances were obtained
from the three State Governments at negotiations that staff
appointments would be made in accordance with agreed State
schedules. It was also agreed that VEW posts transferred
to DOA and incremental posts established would be retained



- 16 -
throughout the project execution period, and that emoluments,
benefits and promotional prospects of staff assigned to the
extension service under the project would not be adversely
affected as a result of such assignment (Section 2.07, State
Project Agreements).
(c) Staff Training. The project would support a variety of
training activities, depending on the requirements of
each State. These would include bi-weekly training of
VEWs by Subject Matter Specialists; pre-service training
for technical and field personnel; special short courses
and pre-season training programs for VEWs; training pro-
grams organized by the State DOA and the State Agricul-
tural University for senior staff; specialized training
programs for SMSs run by GOI's Directorate of Agricultural
Extension; and short duration overseas training for a few
selected staff members at international institutions. In
the case of Haryana, where additional training facilities
are required, an Extension Training Institute would also be
established, the location, training objectives, and course
outlines for which would be agreed with IDA by June 30, 1979
(Section 2.09(b), Haryana Project Agreement).
(d) Housing and Office Space. As the proposed extension
methodology is based on regular and frequent farm visits
by field staff, it is essential that field staff and their
supervisors live in or near their areas of work. While
all States will continue to encourage the use of rental
housing where possible, it will be necessary to construct
low-cost housing in areas where rental accommodation is not
available. It is anticipated that new housing would be
required for about 23% of the VEWs and AEOs. Assurances
were obtained from each State at negotiations that all
VEWs and AEOs will live in or near the areas assigned them
and that, to that end, low cost housing or rental allowances
will be made available for them where necessary (Section
2.08, State Project Agreements). In addition, the project
would provide for construction of new field offices and
training facilities or expansion of existing facilities in
districts where this is required.
(e) Vehicles. To enable field extension staff to maintain fixed
schedules of visits and supervisory staff to reach the field
easily and frequently, adequate transport is essential. The
project would provide for additional motor vehicles at Head-
quarters, District, Divisional and Subdivisional levels;
motorcycles for AEOs, SMSs, and other supervisory staff; and
bicycles for VEWs. Motorcycles and bicycles would be sold to
staff on credit. Credit terms and travel allowances would
be set so as to ensure sufficient incentive for purchase and
utilization of vehicles by field staff (Section 2.10, State



- 17 -
Project Agreements). Funds would also be provided for the
operation and maintenance of vehicles required under the
project.
(f) Equipment and Incremental Operating Costs. Finally, the
project would provide each State with funds for housing,
subsistence, and travel allowances and for the printing of
materials for VEWs (e.g. field note-books, charts, etc.),
as well as for purchase of small samples of seeds and other
inputs for farmer training and field trials, simple audio-
visual aids to support field operations and training, and
required office equipment and furniture.
44.       Strengthening of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DAE).
In order to augment DAE's ability to assist the States in their efforts to
reorganize their extension systems, the project would establish a new Field
Extension Unit within DAE and strengthen the Directorate's existing Training
and Farm Information Units. The objectives of these project components are
described below.
(a) The Field Extension Unit. The Field Extension Unit, to be
headed by a Director for Field Extension, would consist of
two sections, each headed by a Joint Director. The first
would assist the States in project implementation and provide
advice on the solution of specialized technical problems.
The proposed project would provide funds to DAE for the
recruitment of suitably qualified individuals to staff the
new unit, which would operate primarily by retaining as
consultants officials who are engaged in ongoing extension
projects in their own States to visit other States and assist
in the development of effective implementation procedures.
Staff from the Field Extension Unit and consultants would
make frequent field visits to advise State officials and
would submit detailed reports to DAE and IDA outlining any
remedial action required.
The second section of the new Field Extension Unit would be
a monitoring and evaluation unit whose function would be to
collect and review monitoring and evaluation reports prepared
by the States. This unit would summarize the monitoring and
evaluation reports received from the States and forward the
summaries to IDA, together with information on the execution
of dated covenants supplied by States participating in IDA-
funded extension projects.
(b) The Training Unit. Although training of extension personnel
is a State responsibility, it is the function of DAE's Train-
ing Unit to provide leadership and guidance to the States in
planning, implementing, and evaluating training programs for
extension workers. In addition, the Training Unit organizes
all-India and regional training programs at agricultural



- 18 -
universities and central research and training insti-
tutes. The proposed project would provide funds for
staff salaries and travel, equipment, and operating costs
which would enable the Training Unit to expand its program
of training courses as well as its technical support to
State training efforts. In order to plan and implement
this expanded program, the Training Unit's staff would be
strengthened through secondment of technical specialists
from the Indian Council for Agricultural Research, the State
Agricultural Universities, or other departments within the
Ministry of Agriculture.
(c) The Farm Information Unit. The Farm Information Unit of
DAE produces audio-visual training materials and publica-
tions, organizes seminars in effective use of audio-visual
aids in extension work, and advises the States on appro-
priate equipment and materials for use in extension work.
The proposed project would provide staff and equipment to
strengthen this unit, in order to increase its capacity
to provide audio-visual materials (for use by extension
personnel) that are either difficult to produce at the
State level or are generally applicable for use in a number
of States.
45.       In order to ensure proper execution and coordination of DAE's
responsibilities under the project, the project would provide for appoint-
ment to the staff of DAE, by credit effectiveness, of a Joint Commissioner
(Extension), who would assume full-time responsibility for supervision of
DAE's program of support to IDA-assisted State-level agricultural extension
programs, and a Director for Field Extension in DAE (Section 5.01 (b), Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). Key staff for the new Field Extension Unit, includ-
ing two Joint Directors, would be appointed by May 1, 1979 (Section 3.06(a),
Development Credit Agreement). In addition, DAE's existing Administrative
Unit would collect, verify, and pass on to the Department of Economic Affairs
and/or IDA administrative and financial data pertaining to project execution
at the State level.
Project Implementation
46.       Overall responsibility for implementation of the extension programs
in the States would lie with the State Departments of Agriculture. Within
each State, an Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) would be respon-
sible for the day-to-day administration and control of the extension program,
supported by the existing administrative machinery of the Department. The
reorganized extension program would involve a single line of command from the
State Director of Agriculture through the zonal, district and subdivisional
staff down to the AEOs and VEWs at field level.
47.       Responsibility for the activities of the Directorate of Agricultural
Extension under the project would lie with the Joint Secretary of Agriculture
who reports to the Secretary of Agriculture (GOI) through the Additional



- 19 -
Secretary. The Joint Secretary would be assisted by the Joint Commissioner
(Extension) (see para 45). DAE's responsibilities, as described above, would
include assisting the States in project implementation, training, and develop-
ment of audio-visual aids; supervising project implementation at the State
level (via the new Field Extension Unit); collecting, summarizing, and for-
warding monitoring and evaluation reports to IDA; and collecting and verifying
administrative and financial data relative to project execution for transmis-
sion to IDA through the GOI Department of Economic Affairs.
48.       In order to ensure close coordination between the agencies respon-
sible for extension, input supply, and credit and the adaptive research staff
of the State Agricultural Universities, a series of regular meetings and work-
shops involving these groups would be held at State, zonal, and district
levels. State and District Technical Committees (whose membership would
include representatives of DOA, farmers and university staff) would be set
up and would meet at least twice yearly to formulate and review university
research programs, field trials, and extension recommendations. Seasonal
Zonal Workshops (attended by representatives of DOA; the State Agricultural
University; input supply, credit, and marketing agencies; and agro-industries)
would also meet twice yearly to discuss the implications of extension recom-
mendations for the coming season and ensure cooperation among the various
agencies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
49.       Monitoring and reporting of physical and financial inputs would be
the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture of each State. To provide
systematic assessment of the performance of the project, a small unit respon-
sible for carrying out regular sample surveys would be set up at each State
headquarters, generally under the control of the Secretary of Agriculture.
The ongoing analysis of the surveys would be supplemented by ad hoc studies
focussed on specific topics. Detailed guidelines for monitoring and evalua-
tion procedures have been drawn up and approved by DAE. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that all States would undertake monitoring and
evaluation in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA and that sum-
maries of results would be forwarded (through DAE) to IDA at least once a
year (Section 2.06, State Project Agreements).
Project Costs and Financing
50.       The total project cost is estimated at US$53.4 million, of which
US$4.0 million, or 7.5% of the total, represents foreign exchange costs.
Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to civil works, equipment,
training, and office and vehicle operating costs. Price contingencies
have been applied variably and amount to approximately 15% of total project
cost.



- 20 -
51.        The principal components of project cost are as follows:
Incre-   Monitor-
Incre-           Vehicles             mental    ing and   Con-
mental   Civil  & Equip-  Train-  Operat-   Evalua-   tin-
Staff    Works   ment         ing    ing Cost  tion         gencies  Total
(US$ million)
Gujarat       4.3      2.1      1.5        .5        3.6         .3       2.4       14.7
Haryana       4.4      2.1      1.0        .5        2.6         .4       2.2       13.2
Karnataka    7.0       4.5      2.2      2.2         3.1         .5       4.4       23.9
DAE             .2      -         .1       -         1.0          -        .3         1.6
TOTAL      15.9      8.7      4.8      3.2       10.3         1.2       9.3       53.4
52.        The proposed IDA credit of US$25.0 million would finance 50% of
project cost net of taxes and duties (US$3.2 million) and would cover all
foreign exchange costs.  The balance of the funds for the project would come
from State Government sources and GOI. IDA funds would be channelled through
GOI to the Governments of Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka in accordance with
standard terms and conditions for Central Government assistance to the States
for development purposes. In light of the early initiatives Gujarat has taken
to begin the transfer and recruitment of staff and acquisition of vehicles and
equipment required for expeditious implementation of the project, retroactive
financing of up to US$325,000 from the proceeds of the credit is proposed
for expenditures made by the Government of Gujarat on appropriately procured
vehicles and equipment and approved staff costs after April 1, 1978. In order
to facilitate Haryana and Karnataka's efforts to begin implementation of the
T&V System during the current (rabi) growing season, retroactive financing
of up to US$245,000 and US$368,000 is recommended for expenditures made by
the Governments of Haryana and Karnataka, respectively, on appropriately pro-
cured vehicles and equipment and approved staff costs after October 3, 1978. 1/
Procurement and Disbursement
53.        Civil works contracts (totalling US$8.7 million) 2/ would be small
and dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would therefore not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with the States' normal
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association. About 370 motor
vehicles (US$2.0 million) of various types would be required under the project.
They would be purchased in small quantities over five years and would be wide-
ly dispersed in rural areas. In the interest of ensuring adequate maintenance
and spare parts supply, they would be procured by local competitive bidding
under existing government procedures. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.5 million)
would be purchased by individual staff according to their preference from loan
I/   The date on which negotiations were concluded.
2/   All figures in this paragraph are exclusive of contingencies.



- 21 -
funds provided by State Governments. Orders for purchase of minor equipment
and furniture (US$1.3 million) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased
according to established local bidding procedures, except where valued at less
than Rs 50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal
trade channels. The balance of project costs (US$30.6 million) would consist
of local training and fellowships (US$3.2 million), incremental salaries and
allowances (US$15.9 million), monitoring and evaluation costs (US$1.2 million),
and operating expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$10.3 million) which
would not involve procurement.
54.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
cost of consultants and foreign training; 100% of the foreign expenditures
for directly imported vehicles and equipment or 80% of the cost of locally
procured vehicles and equipment; 80% of the cost of civil works; and the fol-
lowing percentages of eligible staff salaries: for Gujarat 15%, for Haryana
20%, for Karnataka 15%, and for DAE 5%. 1/ Disbursements against expenditures
for civil works payments not exceeding Rs 100,000 and for locally procured
items of equipment and materials (with the exception of vehicles) costing
Rs 50,000 or less would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure. These
certificates of expenditure would be audited at least once in six months and
the audit reports submitted to IDA. Additional supporting documentation for
these expenditures would be retained by State Governments for inspection in
the course of project review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for
all other items would be fully documented. All disbursement documentation
would be submitted to DAE for review and certification before being submitted
to IDA.
Benefits and Risks
55.       The principal benefits of the proposed project would be:  (i) to
increase crop production and thus farm incomes in the three-State area as a
result of providing improved extension services to farm families; and (ii) to
increase the Directorate of Agricultural Extension's ability to provide con-
tinuing technical and administrative assistance to these and other States
seeking to reform and strengthen their agricultural extension services.
Approximately 6.8 million farm families living in the project area, 46% of
whom have farms of less than two hectares, would be served by the reformed
extension system. Total project costs over the five-year project develop-
ment period amount to about US$44 million, net of contingencies, or about
US$6.50 per farm family served. Recurring incremental costs after the project
development period, which would be met by GOI/State budget sources, would be
approximately US$6.6 million per annum, or approximately US$1 per farm family
per annum. These recurring costs would be partially recovered through market
levies on agricultural goods entering commercial markets and through sales
taxes levied on agricultural inputs, the consumption of which is expected to
rise as a result of improved farm practices.
1/   Disbursement would be made only against salaries for agreed professional
extension personnel. The rate of disbursement against salaries has been
calculated to bring IDA participation to approximately 50% of total
project cost (net of taxes and duties) in each State.



- 22 -
56.       Attributing a precise level of economic benefits to this type of
project is difficult since it is impossible to determine what proportion of
the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due to exten-
sion alone and what is due to past research efforts, additional purchased
inputs, or more work by the farmer. In practice, it is often the combination
of all these, with extension acting as the catalyst, that brings the desired
benefits. However, since the incremental cost of the project is very low per
hectare and per farm family, even small and slow production increases generate
a high rate of return. The proposed project, for example, would generate a
50% rate of return if 1985 foodgrain yields on half of the cropped land were
12 kg per hectare (about 1%) higher than they would have been without the
project. In areas where the new extension system has already been applied,
yield increases have far exceeded these levels. Moreover, the practices
initially stressed by the extension service usually focus on improved agri-
cultural practices (timely operations, good land preparation, proper seed
rates, weeding, line sowing) which involve additional labor but require little
incremental cash outlay. They are thus particularly well suited to the needs
of the small cultivator.
57.       The establishment of a single, unified, professional agricultural
extension service marks a major departure from past practice in India. The
fact that such a significant reform is underway in large parts of the country
reflects a strong commitment to developing an extension system capable of
serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it is difficult for governments to
make and maintain such decisions. The main risk, therefore, is that the State
Governments will find it difficult to establish and maintain a single line of
command from extension headquarters to full-time VEWs who work exclusively on
agriculture, following a systematic program of training and farm visits. To
reduce these risks, substantial efforts were made during project preparation
and appraisal to ensure full understanding of the importance of this by the
State Governments. The issue of an administrative order in each State trans-
ferring a sizeable contingent of the multi-purpose extension workers currently
under the State Community Development Department to the Department of Agri-
culture, where they would work exclusively in agricultural extension, was
made a condition of negotiation. All three States complied fully with this
requirement. In addition, during negotiations assurances were obtained from
each State that the extension posts transferred to and created in the State
DOA under the project would be retained by the Department throughout the
project execution period (Section 2.07, State Project Agreements).
58.       Experience with the T&V extension system in other States has shown
other potential risks to be minimal. Farmer responsiveness to recommenda-
tions has been excellent wherever visits are made systematically. The ability
of the service to develop and disseminate recommendations leading to yield
increases well above the 12 kg/ha needed on half the cropped land covered by
1985 for a 50% rate of return has also been demonstrated. Initially, at least
in most situations, technology has not been a major constraint as there is
a backlog of research findings as yet not widely adopted at the farm level.
Just bringing the production of the average farmer up to that of the best
farmer brings major yield increases. In order to further reduce the possi-
bility of declining benefits due to stagnation in crop research or inadequate



- 23 -
dissemination of research findings, the project supports programs of field
testing (by VEWs in cooperation with researchers) and promotes a close
relationship between extension services and State Agricultural Universities.
Assurances were obtained from the States at negotiations that they would
review and, where appropriate, strengthen cooperative links between the State
DOA and State Agricultural Universities by November 30, 1979 and, in consul-
tation with the Association, reassess those linkages at intervals thereafter.
In addition, the National Agricultural Research Project, recently approved for
IDA assistance, is scheduled for implementation over the period 1979-83 and
will focus on strengthening the research capabilities of the State Agricul-
tural Universities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreements between the Association and the
States of Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka, respectively, and the Recommen-
dations of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The appointment of a Joint Commissioner for Extension (GOI) and
a Director for Field Extension in the Directorate of Agricultural Extension
are additional conditions of effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b), Development
Credit Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 30, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA--SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - 'MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)
TOTAL           3280.5                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    1797.5                                HDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        90.0      150.0           167.4      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     142.0       181.0    221.0             65.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       434.9       547.6    631.7 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.8      20.6             12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      133.0       167.0     193.0             85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       308.0    351.0             322.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.0        41.6      40.1             44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                         55.9        55.3      56.7            52.9        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1         3.1       3.2              2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.0         2.3       2.1              2.2        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              2.5 14      3.2       3.1              4.2        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.2        41.0      37.0             45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.9        19.0       17.0            17.3       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         2.9        2.8             3.2        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..      3782.0   6821.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED HOHEN)    ..        12.0      16.9             13.7       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             98.1       100.0      96.2 /h          95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.0        92.0      89.0             91.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.0        53.0      48.0             49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        16.0      12.6             12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     44.0          ..        ..               ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.7        47.2      49.5             43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          139.0 /g    122.0      130.0            99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      31.0             30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..        60.0      80.0             66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..         6.0       18.0            17.2       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0             15.7       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0             66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..         1.0        2.0             2.5        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5840.0 Li  4890.0   4220.0             8830.8    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     5310.0 /i  5220.0   3680.0             8479.3     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2590.0 /j  2020.0         ..           1624.5     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..     1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..         ..              ..       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2           ..      5.2               ..        5.2
URBAN                              5.2           ..       4.8              ..        4.8
RURAL                              5.2           ..       5.3              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..        8.7         10.3



ANiEX- I
Page 2
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                     L
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SANE        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 L      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP L       GROUP L
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 41.0         63.0       65.0             59.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                27.0         48.0       52.0             38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  23.0         30.0      29.0              19.9        14.4         17.7
FIEALE                11.0         18.0       18.0              9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  8.0            6.0 /k                      1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         38.0       40.0             38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           16.0         17.0                        23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.0       36.0             35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.0        1.0              2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         21.0       25.0             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                        0.1        0.5                          2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0       16.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6.3        4.1                          1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   175000.0    218000.0  261000.0 Ll
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31.3         32.6       32.2             21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               71.0         69.0       69.0             62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.3         13.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0         40.2       39.2             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  57.1         52.3       51.3             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                27.9         27.1       26.2             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.1         1.1        1.1              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7           25.0L        ..             18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7           53.1 L        -             42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1            4.7 /m                      7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           13.1 /m       .             19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                       80.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                                       65.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
EST MATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                                   100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  .                    41.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                       53.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                                       46.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  Le  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);  Lf  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million;   la  1951-60;   /h  1977;  i  1962;
/1  1958;   /k  1967;   L1  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million;   /m  1967-68.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Sl  :  The adjusted groUp averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the emtreme values of the indicator and the meet
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicatora depends os availability of data and is not unifor. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and ecarets disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thoasand sq. kh)                                                            Population per hospital bad - total, erbao  and rural - Population (rtorl,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are net imcleded. local hospitals, however, include health and madi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - ONP per capita etimates at current market prices.                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same converaios method as World Bank Atlas (1971-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accoromdation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total nunber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cesmercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Averace size of household (perstes per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population,  id-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical defisitions of house-
Urban population (percet of crl) - Ratio of urban ta total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average sum-
of data among countries,                                                              her of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq  ko. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. ko. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adlusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - toal, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thous-and) - Annual live births par thousand of                   different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for ma.t recent estimate,                    bove the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educe-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year aver-ges ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondarv) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departmeets of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Fam=ily planning - users (percent of mlarried woman) - Percentage of                    aponding levels.
married womasn of child-be-ring age (15-44 years) who use birth-control            Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food preduction per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand populatiop) - Passenger cars comprise meter cars
capita annual production of all food cummodities.                                   seating less than eight persons; anclodes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requiraments) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
export., and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in couttries and in yearn when registration of radio sets wan in
quantities used in food processing, and loeses in distribution,  Re-                affect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirerents worm estimated by FAO based us physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
al activity and health considering environsental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand Population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weight., age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; extludes unlicensed TV receivers in cotn-
cent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (gram  per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
bove.  Requirements Eer all rountries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a sinimum allowance of 60 grms of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an overage for the world, proposed by                   units.
PAO in the Third World FPed Survey.
Per capita protein supply from  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food           EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mertality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tios in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTHI                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life espeetancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force,
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant rortality rate (Per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             lemals labor force as percentages of their respective popolatino.n
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-se
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structuro of the population  end long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected borsheles, springs,                   the labor forte in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not mora                  INCOtE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may bh  considered as being within rea-               Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
seoable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or  eambers of the household do not have to                  of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the fmily's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to escrert  dispoa.l (percent of population) - total, urban, and               Estimated absolute poverty income level (I   5  per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total., urban, snd rural) served by escrata                    Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excretr                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements if not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of human  me.reta and waste-water by water-borne systems                Estimated relative poverty income level (US   per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                  Relative poverty moose level is that imooe level less thas one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                    Estimated Population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Popul-tion divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses,
Econo=ic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVOP1ENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 O US$ 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77 1                                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (. conmett prioee)
US$ 3n. Bi                                                     1960/61-1964/69      1969/66-1969/70      1970/7i-1978/76
GNP at Market Prices             86.04      100.0                                                   5.9                  3.8                  2.9
Gross Domestio Investment        16.62       19.3
Gross National Saving            18.18       21.1
Current Aooount Balance           1 .56       1 .8
Resource Gap                      0.95        1.1
OUTPIT, LABOR FOCE AND PRODIUCTM'TT IN 1975/76
Valu  Added (at faotor ooet)             Labor Po                   V.A. Per Worker
USBl,,. _          Mi         . _  R   6                                    Of Nstional sveraaie
Agriculture                      30.2                43                179.0       69                169          63
Industry                         16.7               24                  33.9       13               494          193
Services                         23.4               33                  48.0       18               488          133
Total/average                    70.3              100                 261        100               277          100
GOVEDNMEMT FIXUCE
General Govermenat A/                                              Central Goverrment
IL_  Bl n              of GDP                                   'R    In) S             of GDP
1976777       1976/77    1974/75-1976/77                          1976777       1976/77    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46         19.1            17.9                                83.78          10.9           10.4
Current Expenditures               140.18         18.2            16.2                                84.25          10.9            9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              7.28          0.9             1.7                               - 0.47            -             0.8
Capital Expenditures *j/            59.05          7.6             7.1                                40.39           5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21           1.5            1.7                                11.21           1.5            1.7
MOMEY, CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71     i9 7         1973/74     1974/75                   1976/77      september 1976      September 1977
(Billion R  outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              105.7       142.2        169.0       186.9        215.0       262.6            238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Public Seotor(net)  56.9         82.5         92.9       102.6        109.1       117.3            112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Seotor       56.7        76.o         90.1       109.5        127.5       161.0            144.0              170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                             Jam-     1977      January 1978
Money and Quasi Yoney as % of GDP  24.3         27.3         26.4        25.5         27.6        31.3
Wholesale Prioe Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 1O.O0       116.2        139.7       174.9        173.0       176.6            178.8             183.3
Annual peroentage changes ins
Wholesale Prirp Index                7.7         10.0        20.2        25.2         -1.1         2.1              7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Publio Sector (net)  8.6          19.6        12.6        103.4         6.3         7.5              4 7               15 81/
Bank Credit to Private Sector       17.3         18.0        18.5        21.5         16.4        26.3             24 9               11.9
s/  The per capita GEP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other oonversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
]/ Quiok Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor oost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advenose to third parties have been netted out.
N! Met bank credit to Government Sector.
B/ Bank credit to Commeroial Sector.



ANNEX I
BALUA   OF PA 8                       .1974/75      i91          _6LRC .U                                                      E 3n  tA7B          1:7475 - 67)
Report. of Goods                        4,174        4,665         5,760          6,400                                oaring Goods          515           11
Import. of Good.                       -5,665       -6,084        -5,950         -6,600                           Sugar                      379            8
Trads Biano.                           -1,491       -1,419        - t90          - 200                            TO&                       296             6
IFS  (net)                                215          310           445            500                           Jute  Yaaafaaturee         294            6
Leather and Leather
R ouroo Gng                            -1,278       -t,109           215           300                                    Products          268             5
Mlothing                  257            5
Interest ft  ets (n t) V/              -  198       -  216        -  135        -  130                            IronOre                   258             5
Other Factor Payents (not)                 -            -             -                                           Cotton Textile             223            5
Net Erasfe    J/                          257          470            790         1,000                           othe 1    0       0
bano  n Current Ao"unt                 -1,217       -  855            8I0         1,170
Offioial Aid                                                                                                      u1ZgTL  LET. ARCEH 1. 1977 W
Disb r     tmmt.                    1,761        2,341        1,953           1,840
Ainotiaation                         -515         -531         -560          -  630                           Oa            nd Di-ured                13.6
Proesaction. with DIF                     522          242         -336          - 330                            Undisbursed                              3.2
All Other Item                           -539         -403 -a2                                                   Ouatanding, Including  ndisbured        168
Tnorse in Reers  -)                        38         -794       -1,575          -2,073                           MMT SEIC5 RAT0 FMR 1976/77             14.4   percent
Groas Reslrvee (and year)               1,378        2,172         3,747          5,820
Net Reserve  (end year) kI                758        1,365         3,276          5,670                          InR/IMA LU5DING. D2omber 51. 1977  (USIL.Jn.)
Fuel and Related 4aterialo                                                                                                                          IBED 
Imports                                 1,451        1,417        1,580         1,800                             Outstanding and Disbursed        489.0     3,560.5
of whiabs Patroleus                  1,451        1,417        1,5830       1,860                              OunabntsedA                      674.9    t,257.0
Exports                                    26           43            37         n.-.                                  Ondisburmed               1,163.9     4,817.5
oS whichs Petroleum                     17           22           21         n.a.
RATE OF
Prior to mi&d,Deembr 197t    t   03O1.00 * Rs 7.5                                                                 After end June 1972    I   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00 = USP*.133333                                                          Spot Rate Januamr 31, 197S
lid-Dfsleber 1971 to          *   V511.00 - RB  7.27927                                                                     approx. 0SS1.00 = Re 8.063
end Jun  1972                   Re 1.00 = 0S0O.137376                                                                    approx. Rs 1.00 - US0S.124
Zslltimittod.
/  Figure  given  over all inveetmnt moom. (net). Major payment ar interest on foreign loamn  and
oburge  paid to IlN, and major recipt is intesrat eszoed on foreign aetet  .
J/  Figure. given include workers' remittanoes but exolude offioial grant assistance, which in ialudded
within official aid diabursememts.
aclde, net use of  cWr*edit.
A/ ortidation and intereet pymnte an foreign loasn a. a percentage of  arcWafi&ne isporte.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
TEE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of Sept. 30,1978)
US$ Million1t
Loan or                                                                                         (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.       Year       Borrower                Purpose                             Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                             1,100.63
53 Credits fully disbursed                                                                        2,884.6
267-IN           1971        India        Wheat Storage                                  --           5.0         2.99
294-IN           1972        India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                    --          14.0         6.02
312-IN           1972        India        Population                                     --          21.2         4.52
342-IN           1972       India         Education                                      --          12.0         8.39
356-IN           1972       India         IDBI                                                       25.0         9.78
377-IN           1973        India         Power Transmission III                        --          85.0         0.46
378-IN           1973       India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                    --           8.0         6.73
902-IN           1973        ICICI        Industry DFC X                                 64.80       --           2.84
390-IN           1973        India        Bombay Water Supply                            --          55.0        18.09
427-IN           1973       India         Calcutta Urban Development                     --          35.0         6.71
440-IN           1973        India        Bihar Agricultural Credit                      --          32.0        13.31
456-IN           1974        India        NP Apple Processing & Marketing                --          13.0         8.80
481-IN           1974        India        Trombay IV                                     --          50.0         9.58
1011-IN           1974        India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                       52.0        --          31.93
482-IN           1974        India        Karnataka Dairy                                --          30.0        23.64
502-IN           1974        India        Rajasthan Canal CAD                            --          83.0        46.35
520-IN           1974        India        Sindri Fertilizer                              --          91.0         9.82
521-IN           1974        India        Rajasthan Dairy                                --          27.7        24.84
522-IN           1974        India        Madhya Pradesh Dairy                           --          16.4        13.14
526-IN           1975        India        Drought Prone Areas                            --          35.0        20.32
1079-IN           1975        IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                             109.0        --          46.56
1097-IN           1975        ICICI         Industry DFC XI                              100.0        --          17.92
532-IN           1975        India        Godavari Barrage Irrigation                    --          45.0        19.04
541-IN           1975        India        West Bengal Agricultural Development           --          34.0        22.68
562-IN           1975        India        Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                   --          24.0        14.19
572-IN           1975       India         Rural Electrification                          --          57.0        42.15
582-IN           1975        India        Railways XIII                                  --         110.0         0.36
585-IN           1975       India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                     --          40.0        33.67
598-IN           1975        India        Fertilizer Industry                            --         105.0        81.99
604-IN           1976        India        Power Transmission IV                          --         150.0       123.81
609-IN           1976        India        Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                   --           4.0         3.55
610-IN           1976        India         Integrated Cotton Development                 --          18.0        17.63
1251-IN(TW)       1976        India        Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                     145.0        --         135.77
1260-IN           1976        India         IDBI II                                       40.0        --          34.42
1273-IN           1976        India        National Seed                                  25.0        --          24.92
1313-IN           1976        India         Telecommunications VI                         80.0        --          28.09
1335-IN           1976        BMRDA         Bombay Urban Transport                        25.0        --          17.70
680-IN           1977       India         Kerala Agricultural Development                --          30.0        29.95
682-IN           1977        India         Orissa Agricultural Development               --          20.0        19.51
685-IN           1977        India         Singrauli Thermal Power                       --         150.0       136.62
687-IN           1977        India        Madras Urban Development                       --          24.0        21.56
695-IN           1977        India        Gujarat Fisheries                              --           4.0         4.00
1394-IN(TW)       1977        India        Gujarat Fisheries                              14.0        --          14.00
690-IN           1977        India        West Bengal Agricultural Development           --          12.0        12.00
712-IN           1977        India        Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development    --              10.0        10.00
715-IN           1977        India         Second ARDC Credit                            --         200.0       136.09
720-IN           1977        India        Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                      --          23.0        22.28
728-IN           1977        India        Assea Agricultural Development                 --           8.0         7.79
1473-IN           1977        India         Bombay Nigh Offshore Development             150.0        --          87.13
736-IN           1977        India        Maharashtra Irrigation                         --          70.0        70.00
737-IN           1977        India        Rajasthan Agricultural Extension               --          13.0        13.00
740-IN           1977       India         Orissa Irrigation                              --          58.0        57.50
1475-IN           1977        ICICI         Industry DFC XII                              80.0        --          72.27
747-IN           1978        India         Second Foodgrain Storage                      --         107.0       105.62
756-IN           1978        India         Second Calcutta Urban Development             --          87.0        79.53
761-IN           1978        India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research    --              8.0         8.00
1511-IN           1978        India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                      25.0        --          25.00
1549-IN*          1978        TEC           Third Trombay Thermal Power                  105.0        --         105.0
788-IN*          1978        India         Karnataka Irrigation                          --         126.0       126.0
793-IN*          1978        India         Korba Thermal Power                           --         200.0       200.0
806-IN*          1978        India        Jamu-Kashmir Horticulture                      --          14.0        14.0
808-IN*          1978        India        Gujarat Irrigation                             --          85.0        85.0
815-IN*          1978        India         Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                      --          17.5        17.5
816-IN*          1978        India         Second National Seed                          --          16.0        16.0
1592-IN           1978        India         Telecommunications VII                       120.0        --         120.0
824-IN*          1978        India        National Dairy                                 --         150.0       150.0
842-IN*          1978        India         Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage         --         196.0       196.0
843-IN*          1978        India         Naryana Irrigation                                       111.00      111.00
844-IN*          1978        India         Railway Modernization and Maitasauce                     190.00      190.00
848-IN*          1978        India         Punjab Water Supply and Sawra&a                           38.00       38.00
Total                                                                2,235.43   6,077.40
892.18       41.44
of which has been repaid                                           1,343.25   6,035.96
Total now outstanding                                                 '
Amount Sold                               133.31
of which has been repaid                111.47                        21.84
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       1,321.41   6,035.96
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                        538.55   1,652.01
* Not yet effective.
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                          November 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                       Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9       -         0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2       -         0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7       0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8       1.0       12.8
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0       0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1       3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                           6.6        -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                              4.0        1.2       5.2
TOTAL                              53.6      10.0       63.6
Less:  Sold                                6.0        1.6       7.6
Repaid                             14.7         -       14.7
Cancelled                           6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                           26.7        7.7      34.4
Undisbursed                         6.5        0.9       7.4



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,191 million
as of September 30, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$5.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpset investments in the
Tirhut Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower
than estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
compared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to
March 1980 and the project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets
have now been achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed well in
advance of the closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of September 30, 1978, disbursements amounted to
about US$63.9 million, which is 32% of total disbursements, slightly below
appraisal targets. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Appraisal for a third line of credit is presently in the field.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date:  November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity' bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. Ihe All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which has now begun disbursing.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processirng and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 806    Jammur-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313-IN is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements reached
US$51.9 million as of September 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date: November 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a conse-
quence it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year.
However, an amount of US$84.5 million had been disbursed by the end of
September 1978 and the balance should be disbursed before the revised Closing
Date. Under Credit 604-IN, contracts aggregating about US$50 million had
been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements as of September 30, 1978 were
US$26.2 million. This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million
to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but
US$4 million of this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer I]ndustry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for 50,
and loans approved for 47 markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and
was in progress for 23 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market
yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and improved
farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving.
As of September 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construction was
underway for 36 of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are
nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be
completed by their respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year. Disbursements as of September 30, 1978 were 79% of
the full credit amount.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving edu-
cational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are sup-
porting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$15.2 million
by the end of September 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$5.6 million by the end of
September. Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and
public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist
IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening
the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 842    2nd Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
January 25, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory. The second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project has
just been signed.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation. Disbursements as of the end of September 1978
stood at US$6.3 million or 16% of the credit amount.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19, 1978;
Effective Date (expected):  December 27, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$26.0 million on September 30, 1978.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. In particular, the Assam project is pro-
gressing very well with coverage of farmers expanding ahead of schedule
and noticeable improvements in the quality of training of village extension
workers. The projects' components include provision of additional staff,
training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory facilities, equipment and
transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date:  October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date (exp cted):
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 582 was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project. The project was fully dis-
bursed on October 24, 1978.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was signed July 17, 1978.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Progress on Gujarat Fisheries project is good. All project imple-
mentation units appear to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is
progressing as anticipated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 19, 1978;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$62.9 million on September 30, 1978.






ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project.
Less than one year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
Governments of Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka;
Government of India.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project.
July 1976; July 1977.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
March 6, 1978.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
October 3, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
April 1, 1979.
Section II:    Special Conditions
(a) GOI to appoint a Joint Commissioner for Extension
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
(as deputy to the Joint Secretary (Extension)
and Extension Commissioner responsible for DAE)
before credit effectiveness (para 45).
(b) GOI to appoint a Director for Field Extension in
DAE before credit effectiveness (para 44).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) GOI to establish the Field Extension Unit in DAE
with the appointment inter alia of two Joint
Directors for field extension by May 1, 1979
(para 44).
(d) States to fill required incremental staff positions
in accordance with agreed schedules and to ensure
that VEW posts transferred to the DOA and incre-
mental staff positions created in DOA under the
project would be used exclusively for agricultural
extension and would be retained under the control
of DOA throughout the project execution period
(para 43(b)).
(e) States to ensure that emoluments, benefits, and
promotional prospects for staff involved in the
project would not be adversely affected by transfer
to the extension services (para 43(b)).
(f) State to ensure that VEWs and AEOs will live in or
near the areas assigned them and, to that end, to
provide them with low cost housing or rental
allowances as necessary (para 43(d)).
(g) Government of Haryana and IDA to agree by June 30,
1979 on the location, training objectives, and
course outlines for Haryana's Extension Training
Institute (para 43(c)).
(h) States to undertake monitoring and evaluation of
the project in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to IDA and to forward to IDA yearly
summaries of results (para 49).
(i) States to review and, where appropriate, strengthen
arrangements for close cooperation between the State
DOA and State Agricultural University (ies) by
November 30, 1979 and to reassess the adequacy of
these arrangements, in consultation with IDA, at
intervals thereafter (para 58).



IBRD 13649R1
J '-'   JU S S R                   5u S   R                                                                                                              CO0  900  OCTO8ER 1978
:,3L0>                                                                          INDIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICE PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN                                        All                                                               NEW PROJECTS
.:    - , ,   .                                                                EXISTING PROJECTS
A y   |  *SInagar       r                                           .    STATE CAPITALS
I  JAMMU cnd KASHMIRg                                                     s    NATIONAL CAPITAL
,                                                '-I ,.O'.,                                           DISTRICT ANDO/R PROJECT BOUNDARIES
<  HIMACHAL l                                          STATE BOUNDARIES
5ji W h ->tR-HIMACHAL--                                                                                  INTERNAT ONAL BOUNDARIES
*< ~~~~~~~~'                    P~~~~RADESH             C
0 9  < \N10     200      300     400
0                   O~~~~9  4000
P A K I S T A  N                                                                                                      K,vfz   <2 T    T
PAKISTAN    '~~~~~~~~~~~~'PUNJAB                                                                El~~~~~pBHTA
(                               UTTAR  PFRADESH                                   SIKKIM
A~~~~~~~~~~~AT
f f m- at * -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                               i   .MlZ   A M
-v  GtSf deshTAML NAD    r                                              Baj   of  Benalb J 
J ta = 5 4;A 9 t $ R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U R M A
-2 _7'9                                                                                                                                                           20-
MAHARASHTRA                           t        > p7Q
op~~~~~~~~~~pP
0, 05*0001                                  LA---NKAA8                    9   B g                                   NtOSAR
COO> WOA Op BADl .r .0..K
Opt *OaoA.O,to, oalood4 (
T~~~~~~~
0tKR4KAR                                    A
Arb'             5-SSif''M
\   TAMIL NADU  i                                                                         -z
X <  + <   j                  eor of Benga/                                      hl[X"R t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'P



