Document of   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 217la-IN
INDIA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
November 30, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00  =  Rupees (Rs) 8.60 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AA        -    Agricultural Assistant(s)
ADA (Ex-
tension)-    Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension)
ADO       -    Agricultural Development Officer(s)
AEO       -    Agricultural Extension Officer(s)
AI        -    Agricultural Inspectors
Amul      -    Karra District Cooperative Milk Producers' Union
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
ASDAO     -    Assistant Subdivisional Agricultural Officer(s)
ASI       -    Agricultural Sub-Inspector(s)
Asst. DA  -    Assistant Director of Agriculture
AU        -    Administration Unit of DAE
BDO       -    Block Development Officer(s)
CIMMYT'   -    International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
DA        -    Director of Agriculture
DAE       -    Directorate of Agricultural Extension
DAO       -    District Agricultural Officer(s)
DDO       -    District Development Officer(s)
DES       -    District Extension Specialist(s) of Haryana
Agricultural University
DOA       -    Department of Agriculture
DSAO      -    Divisional Superintending Agricultural Officer(s)
DTC       -    District Technical Committee
EEI       -    Extension Education Institute(s)
FEU       -    Field Extension Unit of DAE
FIU       -    Farm Information Unit of DAE
GNP       -    Gross National Product
GOG       -    Government of Gujarat
GOH       -    Government of Haryana
GOI       -    Government of India
GOK       -    Government of Karnataka
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.60.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAU       -    Haryana Agricultural University
HAFED     -    Haryana Cooperative Marketing Federation
HYV       -    High Yielding Variety/Varieties
IARI      -    Indian Agricultural Research Institute
ICAR      -    Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICRISAT   -    International Crop Research Institute for the
Semi Arid Tropics
IRRI      -    International Rice Research Institute
JDA       -    Joint Director of Agriculture
NARP      -    National Agricultural Research Project
PAO       -    Principal Agricultural Officer(s)
PWD       -    Public Works Department
SAU       -    State Agricultural University/Universities
SDAO      -    Subdivisional Agricultural Officer(s)
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist(s)
STC       -    State Technical Committee
TDO       -    Taluka Development Officer(s)
T&V       -    Training and Visit
TU        -    Training Unit of DAE
UAS       -    University of Agricultural Sciences (Karnataka)
VEW       -    Village Extension Worker(s)
VLW       -    Village Level Worker(s)
ZOA       -    Zonal Agricultural Officer(s)
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif       -    June to September
Rabi         -    October to February
Summer       -    March to May
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and all States April 1 to March 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  .........................................                   1
Introduction ..................................                   1
Agriculture in India ..........................                   2
Agricultural Extension ........................                   3
Existing State Projects  .......................                  4
Directorate of Agricultural Extension              .........      6
Key Points in Agricultural Extension Programs  .                  7
Transfer of VEW ............                  .........        7
Exclusive Assignment of VEW to Agricultural
Extension .................................                  8
Incentives  ..................................                 8
Sanctions and Budget Allocations  ....           ........      8
Phasing .....................................                  8
Agricultural Education, Research and
the Agricultural Universities ....            ...........      8
National Agricultural Research Project              ........      9
Linkages between Extension and Research             .......      10
IIr .   THE PROJECT .......         .................................         11
A.    General Description .......... .. ..........               11
B.   Detailed Features - State Components    .....               11
The Extension Methodology ............        ..        11
Technical Support and Supervision ......                12
Incremental Staff Requirements            .........     12
Housing, Offices and Other Buildings ...                13
Transport  ..............    ..     ..............      13
Equipment and Incremental Operating
Costs    ...............  ..    ................       13
Training ..............     ..     ...............      13
Monitoring and Evaluation ..............                14
C.    Detailed Features - Strengthening of
Directorate of Agriculture Extension  ...               14
Program Supervision ......... .. .........              15
The Field Extension Unit (FEU) .........                15
Administrative Unit (AU) ...............                15
Training Unit (TU) ......... .. ..........              16
Farm Information Unit (FIU) ............                16
III.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .......... .. ...........                 16
A.    Cost Estimates  ...........................               16
B.    Proposed Financing .......................                18
C.    Procurement  ........   .       ......................    18
D.    Disbursement and Audit ....            ...............    19



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........... .............   20
A.  State  Components   .........................  20
Project Implementation ....   .............  20
Supervision   ............................  20
Coordination between Agencies .... ......    20
The State Technical Committee (STC) ....    21
District Technical Committees (DTC) ....    21
Seasonal Zonal Workshops ....  ...........  21
B.  Directorate of Agricultural Extension  ....    22
Substantive Supervision ....   ............  23
Routine Supervision of Physical Progress    23
Monitoring and Evaluation .... ..........   23
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....    ..............  24
Financial  Benefits   ............................  24
Economic  Benefits   .............................  25
Project  Risks   .................................  25
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....  .........  26
ANNEXES
1.  Gujarat Component
Table 1. Summary of Project Costs
Table 2. Civil works
Table 3. Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4. Training Costs
Table 5. Incremental Staff Salaries
Table 6. Incremental Operating Costs
Table 7. Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 8. Extension Staff Requirements
Chart 19153  -  Extension Organization
Chart 19154 -  Linkages between Extension and Research
2.  Haryana Component
Table 1. Summary of Project Costs
Table 2. Civil Works
Table 3. Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4. Training Costs
Table 5. Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives
Table 6. Incremental Operating Costs
Table 7. Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 8. Requirement of Extension Staff by Year
Chart 19151 - Extension Organization
Chart 19262 - Linkages between Extension and Research



- iii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
3.   Karnataka Component
Table 1.  Summary of Project Costs
Table 2.  Civil Works
Table 3.  Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4.  Training Costs
Table 5.  Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives
Table 6.  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 7.  Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 8.  Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
by District
Table 9.  Requirement of Extension Staff by Year
Chart 19243 - Extension Organization
Chart 19549 - Linkages between Extension and Research
4.   Training
5.   Directorate of Agricultural Extension Component
Table 1.  Summary of Costs
Table 2.  Field Extension Unit
Table 3.  Training Unit
Table 4.  Farm Information Unit
Table 5.  Existing Staffing Pattern of Directorate of
Extension
Chart 19150  -  Organization Chart
6.   Supporting Tables  -
Table 1. Main Performance Indicators of IDA-Financed
Agricultural Extension Projects
Table 2.  Implementation Schedule
Table 3.  Estimated IDA Disbursements
7.   Reference Material Available in Project File
Map IBRD 13649R1






INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The proposed project would be the seventh in a series of IDA-
assisted projects designed to reorganize and strengthen agricultural exten-
sion operations in India. 1/ Under the project, the governments of the states
of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka would undertake such a reorganization of the
extension services in their states. Active encouragement for this is being
given by the Government of India (GOI) which considers the nationwide adoption
of the Training and Visit (T & V) system of agricultural extension to be basic
to successful national agricultural policy. The project would include strength-
ening GOI's Directorate of Agricultural Extension to enable it to better assist
states in the implementation and operation of these services. The project
would also improve the ability of the Directorate to provide expanded services,
such as staff training, to the states. Staff from the Bank's Resident Mission
in India began a series of visits to these states from July 1977. They reviewed
existing extension operations, discussed principles with relevant state offi-
cials and suggested guidelines for project preparation. Preparation was
carried out by the state governments and as draft reports became available,
they were reviewed and modified as necessary. By February 1978, all states
and GOI had submitted final reports as a basis for appraisal. Appraisal took
place between March 6 and April 14, 1978. This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. J.H. Lindt, J.Q. Harrison and R.J.G.
Le Breton (IDA).
1.02      GOI considers the continuing involvement of IDA in the reorgani-
zation of agricultural extension services to be of high priority. IDA was
instrumental in introducing the T & V system in India by obtaining the serv-
ices of Mr. Daniel Benor to advise on its design and implementation. It
was implemented first on selected Bank Group financed irrigation projects
and later on a state-wide basis. In all these projects, IDA has provided
technical assistance--especially in training methods, applied research
planning, monitoring and evaluation.
1/   The six previous projects are described in the Assam Agricultural Devel-
opment Project Report (No. 1535a-IN), Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Report (No. 1754a-IN), Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension
Project Report (No. 1442a-IN), Orissa Agricultural Development Project
Report (No. 1301a-IN), Rajasthan Agricultural Extension arud Research
Project (No. 1443a-IN) and West Bengal Agricultural Extension and
Research Project Report (No. 1288a-IN). The main principles of the
proposed extension reform are described in Agricultural Extension:
The Training and Visit System (World Bank, 1977). The overall targets
and present status of these projects are shown in Annex 6, Table 1.



-2-
1.03      The success of agricultural extension will be determined by the
quality and timeliness of advice given to farmers. The monitoring of this
is important both in existing projects and in those proposed in this report.
The physical extent of the project areas (over a fourth of India), the range
of cropping patterns and thus the diversity of the extension messages, make
it important that supervision of projects be focussed on the generation and
effective delivery of suitable extension messages. This calls for GOI and
state governments to establish procedures under which GOI's Directorate of
Agricultural Extension (DAE) would undertake a substantial part of the routine
review of state implementation and act as a control agency for routine reports
and reimbursement requests. The proposed enhanced role of DAE is spelled out
in paras 2.12 to 2.17. This would allow IDA staff to concentrate on basic
institutional or policy matters, to carry out supervision on the basis of spot
checks and to focus on problems and issues identified by DAE in the course of
its reviews. This type of arrangement is used successfully by IDA in other
sectors and subsectors in India: examples are the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC), in the case of agricultural credit projects;
and the Central Water Commission, in the case of several irrigation projects.
Agriculture in India
1.04      The area of India is 3.27 M km  of which 49% is cultivable and about
11% irrigated. India's population of over 630 M is growing at an annual rate
of 2.1%. National income has grown at nearly 4% per annum since 1950, and the
per capita GNP reached US$150 in 1976. Although average per capita income has
increased, in general there has been little change in the living standards
of the vast masses of urban and rural poor, conservatively estimated at 250 M
people with incomes below the poverty line of US$70 per capita per year. Thus,
GOI's development plans give priority to alleviating poverty and creating
employment, especially in rural areas.
1.05      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 45% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and pro-
vides the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last decade,
GOI development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise food-
grain production by increasing the use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant
protection chemicals, and seeds of improved varieties. In support of this,
GOI has modernized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions and
accelerated the development of irrigation. More recently, increased atten-
tion has been given to the establishment of improved extension services and
upgrading the research capabilities needed to support this extension effort.
1.06      Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the Green
Revolution in some areas, primarily in the wheat-growing northwestern states,
annual growth in total foodgrain production over the last 15 years has been
only about 2.3%, or approximately equal to the population growth. Per capita
production of a number of other important crops, including cotton and oil-
seeds, has fallen during the period. Furthermore, India's agriculture is



particularly susceptible to the vagaries of weather and foodgrain production
can vary as much as 20% between successive years. Although expansion of irri-
gation facilities to reduce this variation remains a priority, GOI recognizes
that the bulk of India's cropped area and over half of its farmers, cannot,
in the foreseeable future, benefit from water-intensive agricultural techno-
logies emphasized since the 1960s. Moreover, although much appropriate re-
search is available, yields under rainfed conditions have shown little or no
improvement over this period--a fact which prompts this project's emphasis on
rainfed as well as irrigated farming.
Agricultural Extension
1.07      State Governments have direct responsibility for agricultural exten-
sion; they operate through their Departments of Agriculture (DOA), generally
with the cooperation of other state departments, including Community Develop-
ment. While organization varies between states, the extension service is
generally headed by the Director of Agriculture who reports to the Secretary
of Agriculture. He is assisted by staff located at state, zonal and district
levels. The Collector (the senior representative of the civil administration
at the district level) coordinates activities between the various agencies
of government, with the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) representing
DOA. Below the district level, Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) gen-
erally report on routine matters to the Block Development Officer (BDO),
an official of the state Community Development Department. In some states,
locally elected councils (panchayats) also play a role and the BDO are respon-
sible to these bodies. Given the multitude of local activities and lack of
direct administrative control by DOA, AEO are often diverted to non-agricul-
tural activities. The village level worker (VLW), a multipurpose worker and
generally an employee of the Community Development Department, is supposed to
spend 75-80% of his time on agricultural extension under the direction of the
AEO. However, the VLW is administratively responsible to the BDO and the lack
of a well-coordinated agricultural program, combined with the demands of his
other activities, generally result in his spending very little time on agri-
cultural extension. The same is generally true of the AEO. What little
extension work is done is neither planned systematically, nor supervised
adequately.
1.08      Over the years, dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of the multi-
purpose worker for increasing agricultural production has led to the develop-
ment of a variety of special programs focussing on particular crops, areas,
or techniques. Staff employed under these schemes are usually under the
administrative control of various subject matter departments of DOA. In a
given state, such schemes usually cover only a few districts and only part
(e.g. one crop) of the farmers' operations. These schemes have tended to
dissipate extension efforts in many uncoordinated directions and divert
attention and resources from the need to reform the main line extension agency.
1.09      There are usually too few staff to cover the farming community
adequately and they lack sufficient mobility to reach farmers systematically
and regularly. In addition to the organizational problems mentioned above,



-4-
the extension service often suffers from inadequate and outdated staff train-
ing. Furthermore, linkages with research have been tenuous and irregular.
All these factors have hampered effective extension work. They have resulted
in a general stagnation in agricultural production with most extension per-
sonnel having low status, low pay and poor morale.
1.10      With yields in irrigated and rainfed areas remaining at levels
well below potential, GOI has become increasingly concerned with improving
agricultural extension. A new system of extension--the Training and Visit
System (T & V)--based on frequent and regular farm visits by full-time, ade-
quately trained extension personnel was developed in 1974 with IDA assistance.
Under this approach, a substantial portion of the multipurpose VEW are trans-
ferred from Community Development Departments to DOA to work exclusively on
agricultural extension. The results from the Chambal Irrigation Scheme in
Rajasthan, 1/ where the approach has been in operation since 1974, are
impressive.
Changes in yields in the Chambal Irrigation Scheme (Rajasthan)
Average Yields
----------------- (tons/ha) -----------------
Crop                  Before Project   1975/76   1976/77    1977/78
Paddy (irrigated)                2.00          3.35       3.60         4.36
Sorghum (rainfed)                0.44          0.40       0.66         0.83
Wheat (80% irrigated)            1.17          2.26       2.11         2.31
Gram (rainfed)                   0.69          0.75       0.94         0.72 /a
Sugarcane (irrigated)           40.90          n.a.      59.40        60.50
/a   Yields were low because of severe pod borer attack.
These results were so encouraging that the approach was adopted in six states
under the projects discussed below.
Existing State Projects
1.11      Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-IN,
US$13 M, effective in February 1978), was an outgrowth of the favorable results
obtained with the new approach to agricultural extension pioneered under the
Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, effective September 1975)
and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 502-IN, effective
December 1974). Government of Rajasthan is presently reorganizing and strength-
ening extension and supporting adaptive research to serve 2.9 M of the state's
3.7 M farm families in 17 districts where an immediate potential for improving
agricultural production exists. Project implementation was initially slow,
but review missions report that field work is now progressing well and the
reaction of farmers is favorable.
1/   This covered about 84,000 farm families and 360,000 ha of which about
two-thirds is irrigated.



1.12      As a result of first hand experience with improved extension
activities in the Chambal Command Area, Madhya Pradesh requested IDA to
assist in extending the reorganization to cover both irrigated and rainfed
areas in 15 of 45 districts in the state. (Cr. 712-IN, for US$10 M, effective
September 1977.) Although some staff are still to be recruited, progress to
date has been very good. In Bilaspur district, for example, the adoption of
seed treatment has risen from about 20% of all farmers in 1977 to over 80% in
1978 when it was a recommendation of the T & V program. A full program of
training sessions for extension staff at all levels is being implemented by
the State Agricultural University (SAU) in the latter half of 1978.
1.13      Eastern India, including Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal,
is the country's "rice bowl." Despite its high potential, foodgrain yields
are low and production has barely kept pace with population growth. The
stagnation of agriculture has been partly due to the inability of the exten-
sion service to give meaningful advice to farmers; similarly, research has
failed to focus on the majority need for simple, low cost practices. Orissa
was the first state in the "rice bowl" to participate in a comprehensive agri-
cultural development project (Cr. 682-IN, for US$20 M, effective June 1977).
Virtually all of the state's 3.4 M farmers are now covered by the program.
DOA feels the reorganized extension service has been primarily responsible
for the success of their efforts to increase the area under oilseeds (up 55%
over 1976/77) and pulses (up 44% over 1976/77). While the impact achieved
through reorganization of existing staff has been substantial, progress in
strengthening the organization to sustain the momentum was slowed by the
delay of financial sanctions required for new posts, vehicles and construc-
tion. Sanctions have now been approved and steady progress is being made.
1.14      During the preparation and appraisal of the West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 541-IN, effective August 1975), which supports minor
irrigation development in a portion of the state, one of the major constraints
was identified as a lack of effective agricultural extension. Consequently,
the project included a component to strengthen extension in six districts
along the principles established in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Areas.
The initial impact was so favorable that the state decided to expand the
coverage. This was provided in Cr. 690-IN, for US$12 M, effective August
1977. Initially the project was highly promising: 2,400 multipurpose work-
ers were transferred from the Community Development Department to control of
DOA. Together with 1,200 extension staff from special schemes, they covered
approximately 90% of West Bengal's 4.0 farm families. They were trained with
specific messages for the farmers and, together with DOA technical staff,
worked with farmers in identifying and solving field problems. Among their
achievements was the identification of loose smut disease and the taking of
remedial measures which prevented its recurrence. The proportion of kharif
rice under HYV has risen from an almost constant level of less than 10%
through the first half of the 1970s, to over 20% by the end of the 1977
season. Production of kharif rice is estimated to have been 5.87 million
tons in 1977, substantially above the previous record of 5.18 million tons
achieved during the excellent monsoon of 1975. However, since mid 1977 there
have been delays in financial sanctions and appointment of key staff. IDA
is in frequent contact with project authorities, but little progress can be
expected until a clear cut commitment has been made by the state government.



-6-
1.15      Under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, for
US$8 M, effective September 1977), Assam became the third state in the eastern
region to reorganize its extension service. The project is to cover all of
the approximately 1.9 M farm families in Assam's plains districts in a phased
manner over a period of three years. The system has been introduced more
rapidly than originally planned and now covers about 1.4 M farm families. The
Government of Assam expects to cover the remaining areas within the year. In
Nowgong, an administrative subdivision of Assam where the approach has been
applied since kharif 1976, the percentage of area planted to HYV in the main
paddy season has risen from about 7% in 1975 to 36% in 1977. In the same
area, nitrogen fertilizer use has increased by 85% and disbursements of short-
term crop loans increased to ten times their previous level. In 1978 both
Assam and West Bengal had surplus wheat for the first time ever. This indi-
cates a substantial acceleration in the pace of agricultural production in
these areas. Discussions with farmers during field visits confirm these
impressions.
1.16      The most recent extension project, the Bihar Agricultural Extension
and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN, for US$8 M), became effective in May 1978.
Through a reorganization of existing staff, about 9,000 VEW would become
available--sufficient to reach all of Bihar's 7.6 M farm families. The
project is phased to cover the entire state over a period of five years.
1.17      Encouraged by the impact which the Training and Visit system of
extension is having in areas where it has started operating, GOI is seeking
to apply it more generally throughout India. The beneficial results described
above and in Annex 6, Table 1 have not been achieved without difficulty nor
are they being achieved with equal success in all areas. The decision to
transfer control of considerable numbers of multi-purpose extension workers
to DOA and assign them to work exclusively on agriculture requires a major
reorganizational effort. It is difficult for state governments to make this
administrative decision and maintain it once made. In West Bengal, for
example, the Government still has not placed Village Extension Workers (VEW)
fully under control of the Department of Agriculture. Hence, the service has
been less effective than it might have been. The Government of Bihar also
faced difficulty in maintaining its commitment to transfer VEW. Generally,
the State Departments of Agriculture have found it difficult to get full and
timely financial sanctions from their respective Finance Departments. This
has delayed staff recruitment and procurement of vehicles and slowed project
implementation. However, as shown in the Chambal figures above, there are
indications that where the system is being implemented, significant and rapid
increases in production occur. Under this project, the GOI Directorate
of Agricultural Extension (DAE) would have an increased capability to help
states overcome implementation difficulties. Although the project is demand-
ing from the viewpoint of IDA review and technical assistance, the very great
potential for significant improvement in food production and increased income
for the rural sector justifies IDA participation.
Directorate of Agricultural Extension
1.18      Within the Central Government's Ministry of Agriculture, DAE is
responsible for agricultural extension. Since agricultural extension is a



- 7 -
state responsibility, DAE's role is limited. Its function is to improve the
effectiveness of state extension programs and to provide leadership and
guidance in the fields of extension training and farm information services.
It also provides guidance and support to programs directed at farm women and
youth. Further, DAE is designed as a service organization to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation and assists various subject matter divisions in
their training and information programs. DAE also administers and supervises
GOI sponsored schemes which provide funding for selected components (staff
and vehicles) in state operated agricultural extension programs utilizing the
T & V system. DAE is headed by a Joint Secretary (Extension) who reports to
the Secretary for Agriculture. The Directorate is presently made up of three
units covering Administration, Training and Farm Information, each headed by
a Director. The Administration Unit is responsible for the administrative
support in DAE, supervision of the centrally sponsored scheme, and for assist-
ance in carrying out monitoring and evaluation programs. The Training Unit is
responsible for the organization and administration of regional and national
training courses for extension staff, including those at three regional Exten-
sion Education Institutes. The Farm Information Unit provides publications
and educational materials to all subject matter divisions in the Ministry of
Agriculture; it also plans and produces literature on agricultural topics for
field extension workers. The present staffing pattern of the Directorate is
shown in Annex 5, Table 5.
Key Points in Agricultural Extension Programs
1.19      Agricultural Extension alone is not enough to insure agricultural
development. Development is dependent upon these essentials:
(a) new and changing technology;
(b) market demand and systems for crops and livestock;
(c) adequate incentives for the farmers;
(d) timely availability of inputs;
(e) transportation to market; and
(f) availability of long and short term credit where needed.
Agricultural extension and general education, group action by farmers, favor-
able government policies, and equitable land ownership and use patterns can
act as accelerators to development. In the discussion above (paras 1.11 -
1.17) of the ongoing projects, other key points identified for successful
agricultural extension programs include the following.
1.20      Transfer of VEW.  Transfer of sufficient VEW to the control of
DOA is a first step in a successful agricultural extension program. A poten-
tial pitfall lies in political resistance to the transfer of a large number
of multipurpose (VLW) workers from the Community Development Department to
the DOA. Later, indiscriminate and frequent transfer of personnel between
and within projects and departments may interfere with the implementation and
operation of the project; therefore, the participating governments were asked
to carefully consider such transfers in view of their effect on the project.



-8-
1.21      Exclusive Assignment of VEW to Agricultural Extension.  Extension
personnel should devote all of their time to professional agricultural exten-
sion work. They should not be assigned regulatory duties nor should they be
involved in the delivery of supplies, approval of, or supervision of credit.
Although these duties are important, non-extension personnel such as the VLW
remaining with the Community Development Department or workers in other
agencies or cooperatives should perform them. One of the advantages of the
T & V system is the reduction in written reports and other administrative
activities which permit VEW to devote most of their time to field extension
work and maintain the quite rigid time-bound plan of their work.
1.22      Incentives.  Assurances must also be provided to those transferred
that their pay, allowances, and promotional opportunities will not be dimi-
nished by transfer. In addition, the new extension workers must be provided
training, opportunity for self development, adequate supervision and other
appropriate incentives to develop and sustain job satisfaction. A number
of fringe benefits such as loans for motorcycles and bicycles, government
housing and/or allowances, travel allowances, additional pay, provision for
educational leave with pay, and the secondment of personnel have been iden-
tified as helpful incentives; these are provided for in the Credit.
1.23      Sanctions and Budget Allocations.  The government is responsible
for the sanction and monetary support of the positions, civil works, vehicles
and equipment needed for the successful operation of the extension service.
These are frequently delayed due to the complex and time consuming adminis-
trative procedures.
1.24      Phasing.  The transfer of large numbers of personnel will generally
need to be scheduled so that administrative supervision and technical support
and training by SMS is available at the same rate as staff becomes available.
Implementation schedules which recognize the need for productive utilization
of personnel as they become available are provided in the state annexes. The
identification and posting of SMS is vital in this regard and vigorous action
is required. It is essential that those identified as SMS are properly quali-
fied and that the necessary training for SMS is available.
Agricultural Education, Research and the Agricultural Universities
1.25      Responsibility in the states for higher education and research in
agriculture is normally vested in State Agricultural Universities (SAU).
The present structure of SAU in India (21 universities in 16 states, plus
the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) which awards postgraduate
degrees) has evolved over the past twenty years. These universities were
developed with the objective of creating a system of scientific education
which would serve the needs of the farming community. The inservice training
activities described in Annex 4 are the responsibility of DOA. They will need
to be supported by the SAU under a formal training plan and instructional
commitments. The faculties are involved in both teaching and research.



- 9 -
1.26      SAU have assumed responsibility for most research and experimental
stations within their respective states. Participation in national coordi-
nated research schemes sponsored by the Indian Council for Agricultural
Research (ICAR) has provided access to greater amounts of genetic material for
plant breeding programs, contributed to exchange of information and experience
between scientists, both within and among states, and helped improve the
quality of experimentation. The SAU generally have a Department of Extension
Education which provides instruction in and studies of agricultural extension
methodology.
1.27      India has made significant progress in recent years toward the devel-
opment of a highly competent, professional, and effective agricultural research
system. When fully developed, this system should be capable of generating and
introducing the scientific and technological advances required for sustained
growth in agricultural productivity. It has already demonstrated its worth
and effectiveness in several very important areas, notably with wheat, rice
and maize. The recently approved IDA-assisted National Agricultural Research
Project (NARP) will build on these achievements and enhance the abilities of
SAU to develop practical research programs which will generate location-
specific recommendations relevant to the particular needs of the states they
serve.
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP)
1.28      The objective of NARP is to strengthen the capability of SAU to con-
duct locally important research. It would achieve this through a reform of
existing university based agricultural research and would concentrate, in
particular, on research oriented towards the needs of local agro-ecological
zones, with special emphasis on foodgrains (cereals and pulses) and oilseeds.
Particular attention would be paid to foodgrains grown under rainfed condi-
tions, and to the integration of cropping patterns and animal husbandry
practices. The project would supplement existing GOI/ICAR support of SAU
through the All-India Coordinated Research Projects, ad hoc projects and
university development grants.
1.29      It is expected that the overwhelming emphasis in the first National
Agricultural Research Project will be devoted to the establishment or strength-
ening of zonal main stations. The initial formulation of a research program
for such a station will need to draw on the experience available within the
university and the Department of Agriculture, but it will be important for
the station continuously to improve its knowledge of the problems and oppor-
tunities in the influence area. For this purpose, it is proposed that the
following features be incorporated in the program for a zonal main station.
(a)  Appointment of an agronomist at the main research station to
collaborate with DOA in the design, supervision of execution,
and analysis of the field testing program carried out by DOA,
and in the analysis of feedback from the extension work in the
influence area of the station;



- 10 -
(b) Appointment of agricultural economist(s) at the zonal main
research station to study farming situations and constraints,
analyze adoption patterns, determine the economic viability
and risks of research findings and to review alternative
farm plans;
(c) Conducting a small number (10-20) of trials in cooperation
with the extension service on DOA farms and farmers' fields
(besides substations) to verify the impact of research recom-
mendations under varying soil, climatic and topographical
situations; and
(d)  Field tests of research in 2-3 villages to allow the
scientists themselves to work with farmers in different
resource situations in the improvement of farming systems.
1.30      It is proposed that a seasonal zonal workshop between the university
and DOA SMS (active in the zone in question) would be a major forum for a
permanent mechanism for review and improvement of research programs and of
recommendations to farmers. Apart from generating research ideas, the sea-
sonal zonal workshop would review the objectives of all research and extension
proposals and recommend priorities in relation to the needs of the region as a
whole. The workshop would be under the chairmanship of the Associate Director
of Research or the Zonal Director of Agriculture and would include regional
research staff, selected university crop coordinators and Heads of Departments,
Zonal Directors of Extension and DOA SMS in the zone. Proposals developed in
the district and reviewed at state level seasonal workshops would be refined
and adopted to zonal needs by the zonal workshop (see para 4.08).
Linkages between Extension and Research
1.31      A clear definition of responsibilities between DOA and the SAU
is now emerging in most states. GOI is promoting a policy whereby the uni-
versity is made fully responsible for the development of new technology,
while state DOA assume responsibility for the transfer of technology to
farmers, including widespread testing of research recommendations on farmers'
fields. The cooperatively developed zonal commodity research program of SAU
would continue to identify and select improved varieties of the most important
crops obtained from national and international research institutions, and also
identify economically appropriate practices directed to substantially increas-
ing crop production and, at the same time, lowering farmers' risk. Selected
varieties and production practices would then be tested at research stations,
seed farms, and on farmers' fields located in various agro-ecological zones.
SAU staff would work closely with district and subdivisional extension staff,
particularly SMS, as much of the work at zonal stations would be in response
to the needs of local extension staff and farmers. The extension staff would
work with the research workers in carrying out a program of field trials and
analyzing and interpreting the results. These adaptive trials would thus be
the focal point for testing and introduction of new practices and would also
be used for training extension staff. NARP (paras 1.28-1.30) would provide
assistance to SAU to develop their research capability.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01      The project seeks to achieve early and sustained improvement in
agricultural production throughout the states of Gujarat, Karnataka and
Haryana. This would be accomplished by reorganizing and strengthening state
agricultural extension services. In addition, it would strengthen the
Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DAE) of the GOI Ministry of Agricul-
ture. The five-year project would comprise:
(a)  reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension
services in these states by providing additional staff,
housing, equipment, vehicles and staff training; and
(b)  strengthening of DAE to improve its ability to assist
all state extension efforts by providing DAE with addi-
tional staff, equipment, vehicles and funds for consult-
ant services, and training.
2.02      While the basic approach to reform of agricultural extension serv-
ices is common to all participating states, necessary adjustments have been
made in each state to take account of differing administrative arrangements,
levels of agricultural development, agro-ecological conditions, population
densities and communications. Detailed proposals, outlining the particular
features of each state component, are given in Annexes 1-3 and those of DAE
in Annexes 4 and 5.
B. Detailed Features - State Components
The Extension Methodology
2.03      Under the project, agricultural extension services would be reor-
ganized and intensified throughout the three states (see Map 13649R1), follow-
ing the pattern successfully employed in other Indian states over the past 2-3
years. The project would provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis,
with up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited to their specific
conditions and emphasizing proven practices having immediate impact on income.
This would be brought about by a regular system of training and visits by
field staff, supported by professional advice from within the DOA and from
research institutions. To this end, two major organizational changes would
be made: (1) the establishment of a single line of command from the Director
of Agriculture (DA) to the village level worker (VLW) and (2) the merging of
the transferred VLW and all agricultural field staff into a unified extension
service, employed exclusively on agricultural extension. VLW would be re-
designated as village extension workers (VEW) to reflect their new exclusively
agricultural role. Concerned states issued an administrative order prior



- 12 -
to negotiations transferring sufficient VLW to DOA and agreed to retain them
with DOA during the project period. The VLW remaining with the Community
Development Department will handle the existing non-agricultural activities.
2.04      The number of farm families covered by each VEW would vary depend-
ing on population density and accessibility but would be normally between 700
and 800. The families assigned to each VEW would be subdivided into 8 small
groups, usually of about 100 farmers. Each group would be visited regularly
on a given day during a two-week cycle. VEW would work primarily through 8
to 10 contact farmers selected within each group. The extension message to
be communicated to farmers at the initial stage would be simple, concentrating
on the most important crops in the locality and the most important aspects
of crop cultivation at the time in question. Initially, emphasis would be
placed on improved cultural practices. At a later stage, use of inputs and
more sophisticated cropping systems would be recommended. VEW would be super-
vised in the field by AEO (each AEO would supervise about 8 VEW) who would
work with them during field visits to convince farmers to adopt recommendations.
VEW would receive the extension message at training sessions held on a regular
day in each fortnight by SMS. Training and visits would take 9 days per fort-
night and the three working days remaining in the two-week work period would
be devoted to field trials, making up missed visits and performing occasional
office work.
Technical Support and Supervision
2.05      To ensure satisfactory levels of supervision, training and guidance,
staff at the subdivisional and district levels would have to be strengthened.
Additional staff requirements would be met by upgrading AEO, by transfer
of other staff with required qualifications, or by hiring new staff. Staff at
subdivisional level would include a Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO),
with Assistant SDAO (ASDAO) in large subdivisions so as to retain a ratio of
about 6-8 AEO per supervisor. To strengthen technical support and training,
the project would provide a team of SMS at subdivisional level (usually one
each in agronomy, plant protection and training). At district level, a
District Agricultural Officer (DAO) would supervise the work of subdivisional
staff, while a number of specialists would provide additional technical support
in such specialties as water management, farm implements, entomology or horti-
culture. SMS would divide their time about equally between field visits (in-
cluding guiding and supporting lower level staff), research (including field
trials) and training. Provision has also been made for support staff. Minor
variations on this general pattern are described in the individual state annexes.
Incremental Staff Requirements
2.06      Following the transfer of a number of multi-purpose extension
workers to full-time work in agriculture and their merger with extension staff
from special schemes, each state would still require additional staff to meet
desired staffing levels. Numbers required would vary between individual states
and assurances were obtained that staff appointments would be made in accord-
ance with respective state annexes. It was agreed that VEW posts transferred
to DOA, and incremental posts established, would be retained for the project
period and that emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects would not be
adversely affected as a result of joining the extension services.



- 13 -
Housing, Offices and Other Buildings
2.07      The proposed extension methodology is based on regular and frequent
farm visits by field staff. Therefore, it is essential, for field level
staff and their supervisors to live near their areas of work. Assurances
were obtained that states would ensure that VEW and AEO would live in or near
areas assigned for their operations and for this purpose states would provide
such low cost housing or rent allowances as necessary. All states would con-
tinue to encourage the use of rented accommodation wherever possible. However,
in some rural areas, housing, either institutionally owned or for rent, is
limited and the project would provide for the construction of low cost housing
in these areas. In general, the project would provide housing for 23% of VEW
and AEO. With increased staffing levels, certain states would need to con-
struct new field offices or to expand existing ones. The states agreed to
furnish IDA, at regular intervals (through DAE), information on the progress
in locating sites for housing and offices to be financed through the Credit.
In Haryana, an office allowance would be paid for office space in or adjacent
to VEW house. In addition, some states would need to develop their training
facilities to meet increased needs. The project would provide for these
requirements. Details are given in individual state annexes.
Transport
2.08      Adequate transport is essential to enable field extension staff
to maintain fixed schedules of visits and for supervisory staff to reach the
field easily and frequently. The project would provide for additional motor
vehicles at Headquarters, Zonal, District, and Subdivisional levels; motor-
cycles for AEO, SMS and other supervisory staff; and bicycles for VEW. Staff
would be provided loans by the state governments to purchase motorcycles and
bicycles. Credit terms and travelling allowances were reviewed at negotia-
tions and assurances were obtained that they would be improved, if necessary,
to ensure sufficient incentive for purchase and utilization of these vehicles
by field staff.  Funds would also be provided for the operation and maintenance
of vehicles and for staff travel and subsistence allowances. Provisions for
each state are detailed in the respective annexes.
Equipment and Incremental Operating Costs
2.09      To meet increased needs for training and office equipment, the pro-
ject would provide for simple audio-visual aids to support field operations
and for necessary office equipment and furniture. The project would also
provide incremental operating costs such as vehicle operation, materials,
housing and travelling allowances. In addition, the project would provide
funds for printing various materials (field notebooks, charts, etc.) for VEW,
for the purchase of small samples of seeds and other inputs for farmer train-
ing and establishment of field trials, and for simple visual aids.
Training
2.10      The project would support a variety of training activities, depend-
ing on the requirements of each state. These would include the key training



- 14 -
program--the fortnightly training of VEW by SMS (para 2.04), preservice train-
ing, additional seasonal training programs and special short courses for VEW.
For more senior staff, in-state training programs would be organized by DOA
and SAU. In the case of the training institute to be provided in Haryana,
Haryana and IDA would agree by June 30, 1979 on the location, training objec-
tives, course outlines and syllabus. DAE would organize specialized courses
for SMS (para 2.14) and short duration international training for a few
selected staff at or by international institutions such as IRRI, ICRISAT
and CIMMYT. Each state will identify an officer to coordinate training
activities with the SAU and DAE.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.11      Monitoring (and reporting) of physical and financial inputs would
be the responsibility of the principal officer responsible for project imple-
mentation in each state. To provide systematic evaluation of the performance
of the project, a small unit with staff responsible for carrying out regular
sample surveys would be set up at each state headquarters under the control of
the Secretary of Agriculture. The ongoing analysis of the surveys would be
supplemented by ad hoc studies, focussed on specific topics. Detailed guide-
lines for monitoring and evaluation procedures have been drawn up and agreed
with DAE. These procedures are described in World Bank Staff Working Paper
No. 272, "A System for Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension
Projects," which was prepared to provide a uniform system of evaluating and
reporting for states undertaking extension reorganization with IDA assistance;
it may be modified as experience is gained with the system. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that all states would undertake monitoring and eval-
uation and that results would be forwarded (through DAE) to the Association
at least once a year.
C. Detailed Features - Strengthening of Directorate of Agricultural Extension
2.12      The project would strengthen DAE through:
(a) the appointment of a Joint Commissioner (as deputy to
Joint Secretary responsible for DAE), who would assume
full-time responsibility for supervision of DAE activities
which support all IDA-assisted state level agricultural
extension programs;
(b)  the establishment of a new Field Extension Unit capable of
providing assistance to the states in project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation and in solving specialized tech-
nical problems;
(c)  the strengthening of the Training Unit to raise the quality
of training in the states through a larger number of care-
fully developed practical inservice training courses,
particularly for SMS, at leading Indian institutions; and



- 15 -
(d) the strengthening of the Farm Information Unit in order to
improve its capability to train state extension staff in
the preparation and use of communication aids and to provide
states with audio-visual training materials.
Program Supervision
2.13      To enable the Joint Commissioner to carry out routine supervision
of the six states in the ongoing IDA-financed extension projects and the three
additional states to be covered under this project, funds would be provided
for support staff, their operating costs, and for short-term consultancies to
provide technical support for project supervision. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that GOI would undertake project supervision of state exten-
sion projects, provide technical assistance as required, and submit periodic
progress reports, the content of which was agreed at negotiations. GOI sanc-
tioned the post of Joint Commissioner and will appoint the Joint Commissioner
and a Director of the FEU prior to credit effectiveness.
The Field Extension Unit (FEU)
2.14      The Field Extension Unit would be headed by a Director and would
consist of two sections, each headed by a Joint Director who will be appointed
by May 1, 1979. The first would assist states in project implementation and
provide advice on the solution of specialized technical problems. To carry
out this role, the project would provide suitably qualified staff, supple-
mented by funds to recruit consultants who are directly engaged in ongoing
extension projects in their own state, to visit other states and assist
in developing more effective project organizations. DAE staff and consultants
would undertake intensive field visits, and discuss methods of improving im-
plementation. On completion of the visit they would submit a detailed report
identifying areas requiring further action. Copies of reports would be made
available to IDA. Where necessary, DAE would also arrange for the services
of technical experts in selected areas of specialization to visit states. The
second section of FEU would be a monitoring and evaluation unit which would
collect, summarize, and assist the states in the utilization of monitoring
and evaluation reports. The FEU would also check on the execution of dated
covenants by the states participating in IDA-funded extension projects.
Administrative Unit (AU)
2.15      The existing Administrative Unit would continue to perform its pre-
sent duties in support of DAE activities in personnel, accounts, and internal
administration. It would coordinate all central plan schemes, centrally
sponsored projects and development projects under bilateral agreements with
foreign governments. AU would collect, verify and pass on to the Department
of Economic Affairs and/or IDA, progress reports and administrative and
financial data pertaining to state procurement, civil works, expenditures,
audits and requests for disbursements. Assurances have been obtained from the
states that the progress reports required would be presented to DAE for the
periods ending March 31 and September 30 in the form agreed at negotiations.



- 16 -
Training Unit (TU)
2.16      Although training of extension personnel is a state responsibility,
the Training Unit (TU) would continue to be responsible for providing leader-
ship and guidance to states in planning, implementing, coordinating and eval-
uating training programs for extension workers. To this end, GOI agreed to
provide necessary staff and equipment. Further, GOI agreed that a Joint
Director would be assigned exclusively to coordinate DAE support of training
programs to be carried out under these projects. In addition to assist-
ing states, TU organizes All-India and regional training programs, particu-
larly for SMS and senior officers, at agricultural universities and central
research and training institutes. Under the project, funds would be provided
to enable TU to organize about 40 training courses yearly for SMS at selected
institutions throughout India in selected topics such as improved crop hus-
bandry practices, water management, crop protection, etc. In order to plan
and organize this training, TU staff would be strengthened through secondment
of technical specialists from ICAR, SAU, other departments within the central
Ministry of Agriculture or from state governments. Funds (US$625,000) would
also be provided to enable TU to arrange training by such organizations as
IRRI, ICRISAT and CIMMYT and for TU personnel to visit states and help in
the design of appropriate training courses. TU would continue to evaluate
centrally sponsored training programs. See Annex 4 for further details.
Farm Information Unit (FIU)
2.17      At present, FIU produces audio-visual training materials (flip
charts, posters, slides, films, etc.) and publications, organizes training in
effective use of audio-visual aids in extension work, and assists states in
the identification of appropriate equipment and materials for various types of
extension activities. Under the project, FIU would be strengthened to help
it meet the specific needs of states by assigning a full-time Joint Director
with a small support staff to assist in the production of training materials
which would be difficult to produce at state level or would have general
application in a number of states. FIU would arrange training programs in
communication techniques in conjunction with TU. The project would provide
for the additional staff, operating expenses and equipment required. The
details and costs are specified in Annex 5, Table 3.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Detailed cost estimates for each state, based on the incremental
costs of carrying out the project over a five-year period, are given in
Annexes 1 to 3, Tables 1 to 7, and for DAE in Annex 5, Tables 1 to 4.



- 17 -
Dir. of
Gujarat   Haryana   Karnataka   Ag. Extn.    Total          US$M
-------------------Rs '000------------------------
Incremental
Staff            36,914    37,720       60,421        1,932      136,987    15.9
Civil Works        18,249    18,272        38,562         -         75,083      8.7
Equipment            2,972      2,010       5,598         780       11,360      1.3
Vehicles           10,000       7,025      13,057         190       30,272      3.5
Training            4,347       3,983      19,364         -         27,694      3.2
Incremental
Operating
Costs             31,011    22,424       26,205        8,554 /a   88,194    10.3
Monitoring
and
Evaluation         2,260      3,487       4,636          -         10,383      1.2
Total Before
Contin-
gencies         105,753    94,921    167,843        11,456      379,973    44.1
Contingencies
Physical             2,718      2,403       5,216         509       10,846      1.3
Price              18,035    16,205       32,743        2,087       69,070      8.0
Subtotal           20,753    18,608       37,959        2,596       79,916      9.3
Total ProJect
Costs (Rs)      126,506   113,529    205,802          14,052    459,889
US$M                  14.7       13.2        23.9         1.6         53.4    53.4
/a   Foreign and local consultant services (US$100,000) and training
(US$625,000) are included in operating costs for DAE.
The above costs, based on findings during appraisal and updated to October 1978,
include about US$3.2 M in duties and taxes and an estimated US$4.0 M in foreign
costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to civil works, equip-
ment and training, and office and vehicle operating costs. Price contingencies
have been applied cumulatively as follows:
(a)  local equipment and operating costs, 7% per annum for 1978,
6.5% for 1979 and 6% thereafter;
(b)  civil works, 8% for 1978, 7.5% for 1979 and 7% thereafter; and
(c)  incremental salaries and training costs, 4% for 1978 and 6%
per annum thereafter.



- 18 -
B. Proposed Financing
3.02      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 459.9 M (US$53.4 M)
including contingencies, would be provided as follows:
Local Support
Component             Source        Amount            IDA          Total
-------------US$ million---------
Gujarat               GOG/GOI        7.7              7.0           14.7
Haryana               GOH/GOI        7.0              6.2           13.2
Karnataka             GOK/GOI       12.8             11.1           23.9
DAE                   GOI             .9               .7            1.6
Grand Total                       28.4             25.0           53.4
Percentage                       (53%)            (47%)         (100%)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$25.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and
conditions and would finance about 50% of project costs, net of taxes and
duties, but including estimated foreign exchange costs of US$4.0 M. IDA funds
for state components would be channeled through GOI to GOG, GOH and GOK in
accordance with GOI standard arrangement for the financing of state develop-
ment projects. The balance of project financing, beyond IDA financing, would
come from state government sources and GOI.
C. Procurement
3.03      The main items to be financed are:  incremental staff salaries;
vehicles, including bicycles and motorcycles; equipment; houses for VEW
and AEO; offices; consultant costs, and training. Civil works contracts
(US$8.7 M), primarily for 2,400 houses, would be small and dispersed, both
geographically and over time; therefore, they would not be satisfactory for
international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding following local advertisement. There are numerous
qualified local contractors to carry out such work. Arrangements for pre-
paring tenders and overseeing construction were discussed during negotiations.
All contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture estimated to
cost $100,000 or more shall be reviewed by IDA before bids are invited.
3.04      About 370 motor vehicles (US$2.0 M) of various types would be
required under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities
over five years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate
maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount importance,
this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already
used by government departments. Thus, procurement would be by local compet-
itive bidding under existing government procedures. Motorcycles and bicycles
(US$1.5 M) would be purchased by individual staff from loan funds provided by
state governments; they would be expected to repay the purchase price.



- 19 -
3.05      Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$1.3 M)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established
local bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 when
they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels.
Assurances on procurement procedures mentioned in paras 3.03-3.05 were
obtained during negotiations.
3.06      The balance of project costs (US$30.6 M) would consist of local
training and fellowships (US$3.2 M), incremental salaries and allowances
(US$15.9 M), monitoring and evaluation (US$1.2 M), and incremental operating
expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$10.3 M) which would not involve
procurement. All of the above figures exclude contingencies which amount
to US$9.3 M.
D. Disbursement and Audit
3.07      Disbursements under the Credit would extend over five years for:
(a) 100% of the cost of consultants services and foreign
training;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles and equipment, or 80% of locally procured
vehicles and equipment;
(c) 80% of expenditures for civil works; and
(d) Gujarat 15%, Haryana 20%, Karnataka 15%, and DAE 5% of
total eligible staff costs 1/. The percentages are cal-
culated to bring total IDA disbursements to about 50% of
the cost of each state component.
3.08      Disbursements against expenditures for locally procured vehicles
and equipment costing Rs 50,000 or less, and payments under civil works con-
tracts for one or more progress payment(s) not exceeding Rs 100,000 and item
(d) above would be against a certified statement of expenditures, the docu-
mentation for which would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be
retained by the states involved and DAE. These documents would be available
for inspection by IDA during the course of project review missions. Disburse-
ment against all other items would be fully documented. Certificates of
expenditures would be audited at least once every six months and a report
submitted to IDA promptly thereafter. All disbursement applications would
be forwarded and projected through the Department of Economic Affairs.
Schedules of implementation and projected disbursements are presented in
Annex 6, Tables 2 and 3.
1/   Total extension staff salaries eligible for partial reimbursement would
be the following: VEW, AEO, ASDAO, SDAO, DAO, ZAO, ADA and SMS at sub-
division, district and state levels, or their equivalents.



- 20 -
3.09      Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
expenditures made under the project. These would be audited annually for
each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied. Accounts would be submitted for audit within six months of the
end of the financial year, audited not later than 9 months after the end of
each such year, and the audited reports submitted to IDA promptly. Certifi-
cates of expenditures would be audited at least once each six months and the
reports furnished to IDA. Such reports would show, inter-alia, that the
funds withdrawn were used for the purpose intended, that goods have been
received or work performed, and that payments have been made. All reports
would be submitted by states to DAE for onward transmission (through the
Department of Economic Affairs) to IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. State Components
4.01      Project Implementation.  Overall responsibility for implementation
of the statewide extension programs would lie with the Director of Agriculture.
4.02      Supervision.  Within each state, an Additional Director of Agricul-
ture (ADA) (Extension) would be responsible for day-to-day administration and
control of the extension program, supported by the existing administrative
machinery of the Department. ADA (Extension) would be responsible for recruit-
ment and training of staff, budgeting, procurement, disbursement of funds and
submission of periodic progress reports to IDA. The reorganized extension
program would involve a single line of command from the Director of Agriculture,
through ADA (Extension), zonal, district, subdivisional agricultural officers
to AEO and VEW at field level. See Organization Chart at each State Annex.
4.03      Coordination between Agencies.  As neither extension nor research
can function without close cooperation, these relationships would be formal-
ized through regular meetings at state level and through close working rela-
tionships at zonial and district level. Close coordination between extension,
input supply, credit, adaptive research and SAU would be sought. Seasonal
workshops and a series of committees at state, zonal and district levels
would provide the mechanism.
4.04      To ensure adequate linkages between SAU and DOA, it was agreed at
negotiations that individual states would, by November 30, 1979, review and.
where appropriate, strengthen arrangements for close cooperation between
SAU and DOA. This would be promoted through state-, zonal- and district-level
technical committees (paras 4.05 and 4.06), informal contacts, exchange of
staff, workshops, courses and collaboration in field testing programs. Also,
under the T & V system of extension, SMS, employed by DOA, are expected to
spend one third of their time in liaison with research. In addition, some
SAU research staff at zonal stations are expected to allocate a certain pro-
portion of their time for participation in DOA extension work. To further



- 21 -
increase the exchange, it is suggested that the university and DOA should
reach agreement on the exchange of a certain number of staff for periods
ranging from 6 to 24 months. To bring together SMS in the two services,
the university would be expected to arrange workshops at the zonal stations
(as discussed above) and statewide workshops for staff working on a particular
crop and/or in a particular discipline. Under the recently approved NARP,
zonal stations would be equipped to arrange courses for DOA extension
personnel in the zone.
4.05      The State Technical Committee (STC).  Chaired by Director of Agri-
culture or Agricultural Production Commissioner and comprising senior officers
of both the university and DOA, this committee would meet twice a year. It
would provide a formal mechanism for review of university research and field
trials, and for review of proposed future research programs and extension
recommendations from District Technical Committees.
4.06      District Technical Committees (DTC).  Chaired by the District
Agricultural Officer (DAO), these committees would be established in each
district and comprise district level field staff, SMS, regional agronomists
of SAU (if practical, or their nominees in special subjects) and farmer rep-
resentatives. DTC would meet at least twice yearly to review and formulate
recommended agricultural practices, including the identification of research
priorities and adaptive research and field demonstration programs, for onward
transmission to the State Technical Committee.
4.07      Seasonal Zonal Workshops, chaired by the Zonal Director of Agri-
culture or Associate Director of Research (SAU), would meet twice yearly,
before the kharif and rabi cropping seasons. These workshops would discuss
all implications of extension recommendations, ensure cooperation among
various input supply agencies and give due attention to problems of credit,
marketing and supply. The workshop would include representatives from SAU,
DOA, credit, marketing, agro-industries and other concerned agencies.



- 22 -
4.08      The evolution of extension recommendations is shown below:
Function
District Technical Committee             Reviews adaptive research
(DAO/SMS/staff/farmers)                   and trials to generate
Local representatives                     proposed recommendations
of SAU and other                        and suggests field trials.
organizations
Zonal Seasonal Workshop                   Assembles proposed recom-
Zonal Directors and extension              mendations from DTC in
staff Associate Director of                zone.  Frames recommenda-
Research SAU and staff                     tions after consideration
of research data, environ-
mental and economic con-
straints
State Technical Committee                 Reviews proposed recommen-
Director of Agriculture (Chairman)         dations passed from zonal
ADA (Extension) (Secretary)                workshops.  Approves or
Director of Research (SAU)                 suggests modification before
Director of Extension Education            returning to DTC for imple-
(SAU) Director, ICAR, Research             mentation
Complex (if any) Joint Director
of Agriculture (Field Trials)
(if any)
District Technical Committee              Adopts or rejects modifica-
DAO-SMS-SDAO                               tions suggested by STC.
Formulates specific fort-
nightly recommendations
B. Directorate of Agricultural Extension
4.09      Responsibility for the operation of DAE lies with the Joint Secretary
(Extension), reporting to the Secretary of Agriculture through the Additional
Secretary. He would be assisted by a Joint Commissioner (Extension) who would
work full time on the supervision of all IDA-assisted state level agricultural
extension programs. A Director would head each of the four units making up
the Directorate (See Organization Chart, Annex 5).



- 23 -
4.10      The establishment of FEU would enable DAE to carry out adequate
project supervision and provide implementation and management assistance to
states. This would include, inter alia, the following activities.
(a) Substantive Supervision. This is the central supervision
activity. FEU would arrange for experienced advisors
engaged in extension programs in their own state to visit
another state to review all major aspects of field activi-
ties (particularly the regularity and quality of visits, the
relevance and quality of training, and the relevance of the
recommendations). Their terms of reference would be along
the lines of those used for such advisors when hired by the
Association for supervision. Each state would be visited by
such an advisor once each crop season (once every six months)
for about 15 days. The Joint Secretary or some other senior
officer from DAE would join each of these visits for at least
the last two days for round up discussions with state autho-
rities. The advisor's report would be available to the Asso-
ciation. Additional details, terms of reference and schedules
are available (see item B-5, Annex 7).
(b) Routine Supervision of Physical Progress. The Administra-
tive Unit of DAE and the FEU would receive semi-annual pro-
gress reports from each state. DAE is issuing instructions
to the states to insure the reports are submitted within two
weeks of the end of the reporting period. To assist the states
in preparing the reports correctly, DAE staff would visit each
state shortly before each substantive supervision described
above to review the state's most recent progress report and
resolve any questions arising. They would also review the
action taken on any dated covenants and assist in preparation
of withdrawal applications, including required documentation.
As the states gain expertise in this area, it may be possible
to reduce the frequency of this routine supervision. DAE will
process the progress report for each state every six months and
forward it to the Association.
(c)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  The DAE specialist to be appointed
in this area will visit each state at least once a year to
review and assist the state efforts to develop and utilize
systems of monitoring and evaluation. Normally this visit
would take place after the substantive supervision so that
evaluation efforts can be focussed on any issues raised in
that supervision. The frequency of visits may be changed
as experience warrants. A report on progress in establishing
the monitoring and evaluation procedures would be included in
the semi-annual report. A summary report on the evaluation
results from each state would be submitted to IDA each year.
(d) Training Unit and Farm Information Unit specialists would make
frequent visits to the states, as required.



- 24 -
(e)  DAE would, by January 1, 1979, provide IDA with a detailed
schedule of these activities, broken down by state, for
the subsequent 12 months and thereafter update this schedule
every six months so that IDA and DAE supervision activities
can be appropriately coordinated.
4.11      A breakdown of supervision responsibility among the administra-
tive units of DAE is given below:
Primary
Implementing      Responsibility
Activity or Report                    Agency       for Spn. & Review /a
Administrative Data of the States
Physical progress                         States              FEU
Staff recruitment                         States             FEU
Vehicles and equipment
procurement                             States             AU/FEU
Civil works                               States             AU/FEU
Financial expenditure                     States             AU/FEU
Audit                                     States              AU/FEU
Requests for disbursement                 States             AU to DEA/IDA
Dated Covenants                           States              FEU to IDA
Administrative Data for DAE Periodic
Reports                                         DAE                IDA
Monitoring and Evaluation Reports               States             FEU to IDA
Technical Activities
Supervision of program operation          States             FEU
Training VEW and SMS                      States              TU
All-India and regional training           TU                  TU
Applied Research in existing
projects                                SAU/States         FEU-ICAR-IDA
Extension recommendations                 District            States
Farm information                          States             FIU
/a   FEU - Field Extension Unit; AU - Administrative Unit; TU - Training Unit;
FIU - Farm Information Unit; DEA - Department of Economic Affairs.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      Financial Benefits.  Total project costs over the five-year project
development period, excluding price contingencies, amount to about US$44 M



- 25 -
which is US$1.50/ha of cropped land or US$6.50 per farm family, assuming 6.8 M
benefitting farm families of which 46% have farms of less than 2 ha. The
poverty level income of US$70 per year corresponds to a farm of 2 to 4 ha
depending on the availability of irrigation or dependable rainfall; 60% of
farms would meet the poverty criteria. Incremental costs after the project
development period, to be met from state/GOI budget sources, would be about
US$6.6 M per annum or US$1.00 per farm family. Incremental costs would be
partly recovered by states through market levies on agricultural produce
entering commercial markets. Stimulation of demand for agricultural inputs
would also increase state revenues from sales taxes on these items.
5.02      Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this
type of project is difficult since it is impossible to determine what propor-
tion of the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices are due to
extension alone and what are due to past research efforts, additional purchased
inputs, or more work by the farmer. In practice, it is often the combination
of all these, with extension playing a catalytic role, that brings the desired
benefits. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of recommended
practices. However, since the project relies primarily on reorganization and
strengthening of an existing extension structure, the incremental cost of the
project is very low per ha and per farm family. Hence, even very small and
slow production increases generate a high rate of return. For example, this
project would generate a 50% rate of return if by 1985 foodgrain yields on half
of the cropped land were 12 kgs per ha (about 1%) higher than they would have
been without the project. Where the extension system has been applied for
a few years, yield increases have far exceeded these levels. Moreover, the
practices initially stressed by the extension service usually focus on im-
proved cultural practices (timely operations, good land preparation, proper
seed rates, weeding, line sowing) which usually involve more work but little
cash outlay.  They are thus often particularly well suited to the needs of
the small cultivator.
5.03      Project Risks.  The transfer of multipurpose field workers and the
establishment of a single, unified, professional extension service marks a
major departure from past practice in India. The fact that such a significant
reform is underway in large parts of the country reflects a strong commitment
to developing an extension system capable of serving all farmers well. Never-
theless, it is difficult for governments to make and maintain such decisions.
The main risk, therefore, is that the various state governments will find
it difficult to maintain a single line of command from extension headquarters
to full time VEW who work exclusively on agriculture, following a systematic
program of training and farm visits. To reduce these risks, substantial
efforts were made during project preparation and appraisal to ensure full
understanding of the importance of this by the state governments. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that VEW would remain as full time
agricultural extension workers under DOA throughout project execution.
5.04      Experience in other states has shown other risks to be minimal.
Farmer responsiveness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever
visits are made systematically. The ability of the service to develop and
disseminate recommendations leading to yield increases well above the 12



- 26 -
kg/ha needed for a 50% rate of return has also been demonstrated. Initially,
at least in most situations, technology has not been a major constraint as
there is a backlog of research findings as yet not widely adopted. Just
bringing the production of the average farmer up to that of the best brings
major yield increases. To reduce the risk of technological constraints
lowering anticipated project benefits, the project supports programs of
field testing and the development of good working relationships with SAU.
A separate project, NARP, is directed at strengthening research facilities
of the SAU to ensure a continuous stream of recommendations adapted to
specific zonal problems.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI and the
involved states on the following matters:
(a) The states and DAE assured that they would fill incremental
staff positions in accordance with the schedules in the
respective annexes (para 2.06).
(b) The states assured that all extension positions assigned to
the administrative control of the DOA under this project
shall be used exclusively for agricultural extension and
retained under administrative control of DOA during project
execution (para 2.06).
(c) The states assured that staff assigned to carry out exten-
sion work under the project shall not be adversely affected,
in respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits
and promotional prospects, by reason alone of such assign-
ment (para 2.06).
(d) The states assured that they would ensure that village ex-
tension workers and agricultural extension officers will
live in or near the areas assigned for their operations and,
to this end, shall provide said workers and officers with
such low cost housing or rental allowances as may be neces-
sary for such purpose (para .2.07).
(e) The states assured that they would furnish to the Association,
through DAE, at regular intervals, all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the progress
in locating sites for the houses and offices to be financed
out of the proceeds of the credit (para 2.07).
(f) The states assured that credit and travelling allowances would
be made available to staff on such terms and conditions as to
create incentive for the purchase and use of motorcycles or
bicycles (para 2.08).



- 27 -
(g) The states assured that they would undertake monitoring and
evaluation of the project in the form already agreed with
DAE. Further, the states would forward to IDA (via Depart-
ment of Economic Affairs) a yearly summary of results
(para 2.11).
(h) GOI assured that, through DAE, it would undertake project
supervision in all states participating in IDA-supported
projects, would provide technical assistance as the states
may require, and would submit periodic progress reports in
a form acceptable to IDA (para 2.13).
(i) GOI assured that by May 1, 1979 it would establish, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, a separate Field
Extension Unit in DAE with the appointment of, inter alia,
two Joint Directors (para 2.14).
(j) Each state assured that it would prepare, and present to
DAE for transmission to IDA, administrative and financial
data pertaining to state procurement, civil works, expen-
ditures, audits and requests for disbursements in accordance
with the time schedules agreed at negotiations (para 2.15).
(k) GOI assured that DAE would provide the Training Unit and
the Farm Information Unit, existing within DAE, with the
necessary staff and equipment, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association (paras 2.16-2.17).
(1) The states assured that, by November 30, 1979, they would
review and, where appropriate, strengthen arrangements for
close cooperation between DOA and SAU and thereafter, from
time to time as the Association shall reasonably request,
discuss with the Association the adequacy of said arrange-
ments (para 4.04).
(m)  Haryana assured that, by June 30, 1979, it would agree with
IDA on the location, training objectives, course outlines
and syllabus of the Extension Training Institute (para 2.10).
(n) Haryana assured that it would pay office allowances to AEO
and VEW only when office space is in or adjacent to their
house (para 2.07).
6.02      A condition of Credit effectiveness would be that GOI would appoint
a Joint Commissioner (Extension) and a Director of the Field Extension Unit
in DAE (para 2.13).
6.03      To encourage the prompt implementation of the project and to recog-
nize the early initiatives taken by Gujarat to implement the project, it is
recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of US$325,000 be made
available to Gujarat for expenditures after April 1, 1978; US$368,000 to
Karnataka, and US$245,000 to Haryana for expenditures after October 3, 1978.



- 28 -
6.04      With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for a Credit of US$25.0 M to GOI on standard IDA terms.
November 30, 1978



- 29 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
GUJARAT COMPONENT
I. General Description
1.        The State of Gujarat, located along the northwestern coast of India,
is characterized by low and highly variable rainfall and an extreme suscep-
tibility to droughts and famine. The state, covers an area of 19.6 M ha, and
has a population of about 30.7 M (1977). It is relatively urbanized and has
a large modern manufacturing sector; but agriculture, which in a normal year
contributes about 40% of the state income, has a predominant influence on the
state's economy. Continuous economic progress is largely dependent on the
removal of constraints to agricultural production, particularly through the
expansion of irrigation and farmer use of improved technology.
2.        Agriculture employs about 65% of the labor force.  Farmers (2.4 M
farm families) are progressive and oriented towards cash crop production. Due
to low rainfall and limited irrigation facilities, yields are relatively low,
but as a result of improved farming practices, they have increased faster in
Gujarat than in most other parts of India. Cultivation of high value crops
and relatively advanced farming practices make the productivity per agricul-
tural worker the fourth highest in India.
3.        Gujarat has a tropical monsoon climate with temperatures that are
suitable for year-round cropping. Daily minimum and maximum temperatures
range from 13 -270C in January to 27 -41 C in May.  Annual rainfall ranges
from less than 300 mm in the northwest to over 2,000 mm in a small area
in the southeast. Most parts of the state receive between 500 and 800 mm.
About 95% of the rainfall occurs during the June-September monsoon. However,
variations in timeliness and amounts are great and rainfall is highly unre-
liable over more than 60% of the state.
4.        The state divides naturally into three geographical units:  the
Gujarat mainland, the Saurashtra Peninsula, and Kutch. Mainland Gujarat
comprises extensive alluvial plains flanked by hills in the east. Most of
the southern mainland has deep black soils. The central mainland has sandy
loam soils in the western part and medium deep black soils in the eastern
part. The soils of the northern mainland range from sandy alluvium in the
hilly areas along the Rajasthan border to sandy loam at lower elevations.
5.        The central portion of the Saurashtra Peninsula is characterized
by low hills with coarse and shallow residual soils, underlain by porous
weathered rock, alternatively with deep clay loam or alluvial basins.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
The Kutch land mass soils are generally derived from sandstones and lime-
stones and are coarse in texture with satisfactory internal drainage. Large
areas are affected by salinity and the Ranns of Kutch are unsuitable for
agriculture.
6.        About 9.8 M ha (52%) of the land is under cultivation.  Cropping
intensity (107%) is one of the lowest in India. However, this figure gives
a somewhat misleading picture of the intensity of land use since almost one-
fifth of the area is cultivated with either two seasonal or perennial crops.
Given the low rainfall, the intensity of cultivation cannot be significantly
increased without irrigation. Further increases in agricultural income are
primarily dependent on continued yield increases in rainfed areas, expansion
of irrigation and shifts in cropping patterns to higher value crops.
7.        There are three cropping seasons in Gujarat:  kharif (June-October),
rabi (November-February), and hot weather (March-May). Most of the cropping
is done during kharif, utilizing the monsoon rainfall. Rabi crops are grown
on residual soil moisture or with irrigation. Except in limited areas with
perennial irrigation, there is no cultivation during the hot weather season.
8.        The climate and soils are suitable for many crops including cotton,
groundnuts and tobacco. Gujarat produces about one-quarter of India's cotton
and groundnuts and one-third of its tobacco. Cereals--primarily pearl millet
and sorghum--and pulses account for less than half the cropped area. As a
result, Gujarat is seriously deficient in foodgrains; in a normal year pro-
duction is about 4.5 M tons compared to estimated requirements of 5.5 M tons.
9.        Dairy and livestock provide important income to many farmers in
Gujarat. "Amul" (Karra District Cooperative Milk Producers' Union) is a
model for dairy development. Its 235,000 members process 600,000 liters
per day, largely for the Bombay market. The success of "Amul" is being
replicated throughout the state and now there is a well-established network
of about 2,000 dairy cooperatives. Although Animal Husbandry is a separate
department of government, there is scope for cooperation with DOA in providing
extension advice in production of feed crops.
II. Agricultural Services
Extension Service
10.       At present, field level extension work is the responsibility of
the local government authorities. These locally elected bodies are at three
levels: the district, the taluka (or block) and the village. Extension
work is carried out by the Village Extension Worker (VEW) who is also respon-
sible for all community development services. VEW are responsible to the
Taluka Development Officer (TDO) (See Chart 19153). For technical (as opposed



-31 -                       ANNEX I
Page 3
to administrative) control, the VEW is supervised by the AEO who is also
administratively responsible to TDO, but technically responsible to the
District Agricultural Officer (DAO). DAO are under the technical control of
the Director of Agriculture, but under the administrative control of the
District Development Officer (DDO). In addition to these staff, there
are a number of special crop development schemes and intensive development
projects under the control of DOA that have special staff directly employed
by the Department and supervised by the DAO.
Education and Training
11.       The Gujarat Agricultural University has three agricultural colleges
situated in different agro-ecological zones of the state. These are located
at Anand, Navsari and Junagadh. Each has a capacity for training about 100
students a year in degree and postgraduate courses. In addition, a new campus
is being built at Dantiwada, chiefly for postgraduate training and research.
There are four gramsevak (i.e. VEW) training centers which give two year
preservice training courses and one year refresher courses for VEW. These
centers are run by the university which also offers inservice training courses
at agricultural colleges. There are also a number of farmers' training
centers in Gujarat offering one or two week courses in special topics.
Research
12.       Research is carried out at the campuses of the Gujarat Agricultural
University and at the university's zonal stations located in other parts of
the state. There are five zonal stations, each working on the research
requirements of its particular zone, and a number of main research stations
working on particular crops or topics (such as cotton or rural engineering).
Coordination between research workers and DOA is maintained through the
presence of DOA staff on the Research Council and research subcommittees
(See Chart 19154). In addition, the university and DOA each hold periodic
seminars, training programs and workshops which are attended by representa-
tives of the other organizations.
Agricultural Credit
13.       Both commercial banks and cooperative credit banks offer facilities
to farmers. Since commercial bank terms are less favorable than those of the
cooperative banks, the former tend to be used primarily in areas where no
cooperative banks have been developed. Commercial banks only account for
about 20% of institutional credit and their share of lending is declining.
Banks have their own Development Officers assessing and supervising the loans.
The two main cooperative banks are the Gujarat State Cooperative Apex Bank
(short- and medium-term credit) and the Gujarat Land Development Bank (long-
term credit).
Input Supply and Transportation
14.       Cooperatives play a major role in a well developed system for distri-
bution and sale of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides throughout the state.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Gujarat is more than self-sufficient in the production of nitrogenous and
phosphatic fertilizers. The road system is relatively well-developed and 90
percent of the villages are located within 3 km of a regular bus route.
Marketing and Processing
15.       With about half the area under cash crops, Gujarat has a well
developed system for marketing and processing agricultural produce. It has
the capacity to absorb all production increases expected from the project.
Present and future storage requirements could be met by the Warehousing
Corporation presently working in the state.
III. The Project
A. General Description
16.       The project would reorganize and strengthen the extension services
in 18 of the 19 districts of Gujarat 1/. It would improve the efficiency of
the service by: (i) intensifying contacts between extension workers and
farmers; (ii) upgrading the standards of training of extension workers; and
(iii) improving the quality of technical packages through better adaptive
research. Specifically, the five-year project would comprise the reorganiza-
tion and strengthening of the agricultural extension service by provision
of additional staff, housing, offices, equipment, vehicles and staff training.
17.       All special schemes would be integrated into a single extension pro-
gram. In 1978-79 the major thrust would be the implementation of integrated
pest control for cotton, the most important crop in Gujarat. This program
would require the VEW to maintain an intensive training and visit schedule
and should serve as a pilot for other extension programs. Groundnuts, pearl
millet, sorghum, paddy and wheat are other important crops for which the
extension service would regularly and systematically provide farmers with
up-to-date advice, and demonstration of farming practices best suited to
their specific conditions which are capable of having an immediate impact on
production and income. Since the overwhelming proportion of farmers are
wholly dependent on rainfall, emphasis would be placed on raising yields by
better cultural practices (such as seed treatment, timely sowing of groundnuts
and pearl millet, weed control), introduction of new varieties and new crops
(such as cumin) and, where appropriate, more efficient use of irrigation water.
For more details, see Appraisal of the Gujarat Agricultural Development
Project (March 1978), available in the project file.
1/   Kutch District is proposed for intensive animal husbandry development.



- 33 -                     ANNEX 1
Page 5
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension
18.       The project would introduce the T & V extension system in ten dis-
tricts in the first year and eight in the second. Full-time village level
agricultural extension workers (VEW) would be appointed, each would cover
about 500-800 farmers in groups of 60-100. VEW would attend training seminars
held once a fortnight by SMS (para 21) who would use technical material pre-
pared by District Technical Committees. In alternate weeks, VEW would meet
in the field with their immediate supervisors, AEO, to discuss farmers' prob-
lems. Two days each fortnight would be spent by VEW attending demonstrations
and field trials, making up visits missed during the fortnight, or performing
occasional administrative work.
19.       To carry out this system, 840 additional VEW would be required, 24
additional SMS, and a total of 47 supervisory staff at subdivisional, district,
zonal and headquarters levels, plus support staff for all these incremental
officers (see Table 8). The organizational structure is explained more fully
in paragraphs 24 and 25. Additional staff would be appointed by the end of
the second year of the project.
Housing, Offices and Transportation
20.       The proposed methodology is based on regular and frequent farm
visits by extension staff. At present, housing available for rent in rural
areas is limited and extension workers rely on public transportation. GOG
would encourage field level staff to live in or near their assigned area by
either providing low-cost housing or paying staff housing allowances. The
project provides for renovation of existing housing that is suitably located
and for the construction of low-cost housing. Hence, at full development,
housing would be provided for about 60% of VEW and 50% of AEO and subdivi-
sional staff. The project would finance construction of subdivisional offices
in the 37 subdivisions created under the project and provide equipment and
furniture. The project also provides for additional equipment and vehicles
at headquarters, subdivisional and district levels, including loans for
motorcycles to AEO and bicycles for VEW. Loan provision is made for 75% of
the staff. It is believed that not more than this proportion would wish to
buy them as a good state bus service is available and in some areas sandy
soils are unsuitable for cycles. Provision has been made in project costs
for operating costs of incremental departmental vehicles and incremental
staff travelling allowances.
Training
21.       At the start of the project, training would be provided for both
new and existing staff. The project provides for training fellowships for
SMS, inservice and short-term training, and scholarships for advanced train-
ing for a few staff to improve their promotion prospects. A limited amount
of equipment and instructional aids required for staff training would be
included in the project.



- 34 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 6
Monitoring and Evaluation
22.       The project would fund the staff and equipment to carry out monitor-
ing and evaluation of the project in order to provide management with the
information needed for day-to-day management and longer term policy planning.
The monitoring and evaluation unit, which would report directly to the Secre-
tary of Agriculture, would consist of a Joint Director of Agriculture, two
Deputy Directors (one to head the Sample Survey Section and the other the ad
hoc studies section), an agricultural economist, a social scientist and four
agricultural officers. These would be supported in the field by 4 field
supervisors and 24 data collectors, plus office support staff. The metho-
dology to be used would be similar to that described in the World Bank Staff
Working Paper No. 272, "A System of Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural
Extension Projects."
Project Costs
23.       Detailed costs, which include physical and price contingencies,
duties and taxes, are estimated at US$14.7 M, and are shown in Tables 1-7.
C. Operation
Agricultural Extension
24.       A principal objective of the reorganization is to establish a direct
line of command from the Director of Agriculture to VEW. VEW and AEO, who are
at present under the administrative control of the Taluka Development Officer,
would come under the administrative control of the DAO through the SDAO (para
10); they would be exclusively concerned with agricultural extension. Pay
and allowances would, however, continue to be paid by the Taluka Panchayat;
disciplinary control over AEO would be exercised by the DDO since he is the
chief executive officer of the district, but he would exercise his control on
the advice of the DAO. While the DAO would have the ultimate authority over
VEW, DDO, on the advice of the DAO, would be the ultimate authority over AEO.
25.       To make the span of control of the DAO more manageable, two or
three subdivisions would be created in each district, totaling 37 statewide.
Each subdivision would be headed by a Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
(SDAO), assisted by an Assistant SDAO in those subdivisions that have more
than eight AEO. Subdivisional offices would provide technical support to
AEO and VEW by the presence of two SMS, one specializing in crop production
and the other in plant protection. At the district level, each of the 18
districts would have between two and four SMS with greater specialization
depending on the particular needs of the district. Districts would be grouped
into four zones, each under the control of a Joint Director of Agriculture who
would report to the Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA) (Extension) at
headquarters.



- 35 -                     ANNEX 1
Page 7
26.       The Secretary for Agriculture would have overall responsibility
for the program which would be carried out by the Director of Agriculture,
assisted by one ADA (Extension). The ADA would be responsible to the Director
of Agriculture for day-to-day administration and control of the entire exten-
sion program. He would be assisted by a team of three SMS who would be
responsible for developing extension training programs, arranging for staff
to be sent to training institutions both within and outside Gujarat, and
reviewing extension recommendations. This directorate would be respon-
sible inter alia for recruitment and training of staff, budgeting and pro-
curement, and progress reports.
Linkages between Extension and Research
27.       As neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close coordination, regular meetings at state, zonal and district levels and
working relationships at all levels would be necessary. Extension-research
linkages are discussed in para 4.03. Technical Committees at the district
level would review and formulate field trial work programs and extension
recommendations. When formulated, these would be submitted first to a zonal
committee where they would be reviewed and checked for appropriateness in
the agro-ecological zone, then passed to a state level technical committee,
chaired by the Director of Agriculture. It would comprise the Additional
Director of Agriculture (as Secretary), Director of Research, Director of
Extension Education, headquarters SMS, and district level representatives.
This committee would review seasonal extension and adaptive trial results,
modify and approve programs and recommendations submitted by the district
technical committees and review overall progress. It would also assess
input and credit supply requirements associated with extension recommenda-
tions. These would then be passed to the appropriate supply agency. The
ADA (Extension), who is also Secretary of the State Level Council, would
maintain contact with research work being carried out at Gujarat Agricultural
University, would be responsible for getting recommendations finalized by this
Council, and verifying them in farmers' fields. Field trials that demand
costly expenditure or involve a greater risk and require closer supervision
would be carried out on the State trial-cum-demonstration farms.
28.       A Project Coordination Committee, chaired by the Secretary of
Agriculture, would be set up to ensure cooperation among various government
organizations, Gujarat Agricultural University and credit institutions.
It would meet at least twice a year. It would also ensure that problems
of credit, marketing and input supplies were given due attention, and would
include senior officials of organizations concerned with research, marketing,
input supply and credit.



- 36 -
INDIA
ANNEX 1
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT                 Table 1
Gujarat Component
Sumnary of Prolect Costs
(Rs.'000)
Foreign
Year                           Exchange
1      2       3      4        5     TOTAL    %      Cost
Civil Works (Table 2)
New construction                        4647   4647   3165       -        -     12459    -         -
Rehabilitation                          1920   1920   1950       -        -      5790    -         -
Sub total                           6567   6567   5115       -       -      18249    -        -
Vehicles_gEuipment (Table 3)
Departmental vehicles                   4760   2000    -         -        -      6760    25    1690
Staff owned vehicles                     710    710    710       710    400      3240    25      810
Equipment                               1848    907       79      69      69     2972    40    1189
Sub total                           7318   3617    789       779    469    12972    28    3689
Trainine Costs (Table 4)
Inservice training                       115    173    270       308    336      1202      -       -
Special short courses                    206    296    360       400    400      1662      -       -
Orientation training                     288    120       -      -        -       408      -       -
Refresher training                        35      35      35      35      35      175      -       -
Scholarships                              -      150    250      250    250       900 
Sub total                            644    774    915       993   1021      4347      -      -
Incremental Staff Salaries (Table 5)
Headquarters                              66      66     66       66      66      330      -       -
Zonal                                    136    136    136       136    136       680      -       -
District                                 131    182    182       182    182       859      -       -
Subdivision                               55    492    492       492    492      2023      -       -
Field level                             4272   5040   5040    5040   5040    24432         -       -
Support staff                           1402   1797   1797    1797   1797        8590      -       -
Sub total                           6062   7713   7713    7713   7713    36914         -      -
Incremental Operating Costs (Table 6)
Operating expenses                        715   1530   2042    2042   2042       8371    30    2511
Housing allowances                        133    149    149      149    149       729      -       -
Travel allowances                       2116   2813   2813    2813   2813    13368                 -
Vehicle Operating Costs                 1295   1812   1812    1812   1812        8543    30    2563
Sub total                           4259   6304   6816    6816   6816    31011    16    5074
Monitoring and Evaluation (Table 7)
Staff                                    394    394    394       394    394      1970      -       -
Equipment                                110      -       -       -       -       110    40        44
Operating Costs                            36     36      36      36      36       180    30       54
Sub total                            540    430    430       430    430      2260      4      98
TOTAL BASE COSTS                       25,390 25,405 21,778  16,731 16,449  105,753         8   8,861
Physical Contingencies                     646    706    627      370    369    2,718       8      217
Price contingencies                     1,285  3,018  4,140   4,206  5,386   18,035         8   1,443
Total contingencies                 1,931  3,724  4,767   4,576  5,755   20,753         8   1,660
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      27,321 29,129 26,545  21,307 22,204  126,506        8  10 2521



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Gujarat Component
Civil Works
(RR. '000)
Unit             Year I        Year 2           Year 3         Year 4         Year 5
Particulars                               Quantity          Cost           No.   Cost     No.   Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost      Total
New Constructions: 
VEW quarters                              564                10          200    2000      200   2000     164   1640      -       -        -       -      5640
AEO quarters                                -                  -                                              - -  -
SMS quarters                               74               12.6          25     315      25    315       24    302      -       -        -      -        932
SDAO quarters                              80               22.5          30     675      30    675       20    450      -       -        -       -      1800
S.D.Office                                 37       _        __ 1 0A 5    15    1657      15   1657        7    773_ _  7                         -      4087
Sub total                               -               -             -     4647      -    4647       -    3165      -      -         -      -      12459
Rehabilitation:  b
VEW quarter                              1500                3           500    1500      500   1500     500   1500      _       _        _       _      4500
AEO quarter                                215               6            70     420       70    420       75    450      -      -        -       -      1290
Sub total                              -                             -      1920       -    1920      -    1950      -       -        -      -       5790
TOTAL - Civil Works                        -               -            -      6567       -    6567       -    5115     -       -        -       -     18249
Physical Contingencies (5%)                 -               -            -       328       -     328       -     256     -       -        -       -       912
GRAND TOTAL                                                             -      6895       -    6895       -    5371     -       -        -       -     19161
^/ Housina Provision as followas
Total Staff        _ itinRqtrs.    Rehabilitation        New       Total    7 of housing provision
VLWs                 3440                1760             1500             564        2064             60%
AEOs                  431                 245              215              -          215             55%
SMS, SDAO & ASDAO                152                  -                 -               80         80             50%
b/ Average rehabilitation cost at 50% cost of new quarters.
'. l



INDIA
COMP0SITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Guiarat Component
Vebieles dad         t
(Rs. '000)
Quanti      Unit           Year I          Year 2         Year 3          Year 4           Year 5        Total
Vehicles                                   Type         tv         Cost         No,  Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost   _ _o.  Cost        No.   Cost      Cost
D.Partmental:
Headquarters  a/                         Sedan         2           35           2      70      -                                                                  70
Zonal   b/                             ( Sedan         4           35           4     140      -       -       -      -         -       -       -      -         140
Jeep(Diesel)  4           50           4     200      -       -       -      -         -       -       -     -          200
District  c/                             Jeep(Diesel) 32           50          20    1000    12       600      -       -        -       -       -      -        1600
Sub-division d/                          Jeep(Diesel) 95           50          67    3350    28      1400      -      -         _               _      _        4750
Sub total                                          -           -            -    4760      -     2000      -      -         -      -        -     -         6760_
Staff-owned
AEO  e/                             Motor cycle      325            6          75     450    75       450      75     450       75    450      25      150      1950      X
VEW  e/                                Bicycle      2580          0.5         520     260   520       260    520       260     520    260    500       250      1290
Sub total                                                                         710             710             710             710             400       3240
Equioments:
Headquarters  f/                                      -            -           -       18    -         18      -       10       -       -       -       -         46
District  &/                                          -            45          10     450      6      270      -         -      -       -       _       _        720
Sub-division  h/                                      -            50          26    1300    11       550      -        -       -       -       -       -       1850
Other extension aids  i/                             -                                  80-            69      -       69       -       69      -       69       356
Sub total                                       _ _                              1848   _       907 _          _    _    79        69              69       2972
Total Vehicles and E'uipment                                                           7318           3617              789             779             469      12972
Physical contingencies 5X   J/                                                           92             45   _____  4                     3               3        147
GRAND TOTAL                                          _        _       _ _        _    7410            3662              7782                            472      13119
Note: a/  At HQs two sedans for one ADA and three SMS.
b/  At Zonal level, one sedan and one jeep.
c/  At District level, two jeeps have been provided for 3 SMS.  No jeep is provided for DAO, as they already have one.
Similarly no van is provided as they exist at present.
d/  At sub-division level, two jeeps we provided for sub-division plus one for each ASDAO.
e/  Provision for motor cycle and bicycle loan have been provided for 75% of the AEOs and VLEWs respectively.
f/  Photographic equipment, slide duplicator, photocopying machine, calculator.
S/  One set audio-visual equipment (everhead projector, slide projector, screen, cassette recorder, megaphone,
blackboard, flanniel board and chart board), Stencil duplicator, office equlpment and accessories,
h/  One set audio-visual equipment, duplicator, typewriters.
i/  Includes folding blackboard for VEW and small library, etc, at subdivislona (Rs, 100 per VEW and RP, 300
per subdivision).
J/  Physical contingencies are not calculated on vehicles.



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Guj arat Component
Training Costs
(Rs.'000)
Quan-       Unit         Year I           Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5           Total
Type of training                                       titv        Cost        No,   Cost      No.   Cost  __No.   Cost          No,   Cost      No.   Cost          Cost
In-service traini_g
Pre-season_training E/
VEW                                                  11480        0.07       1000      70    1500    105      2500    175    3040    213    3440    241              804
Other staff                                           2649        0.15     _00         45     450      68      633      95      633      95     633      95          398
sub total                                                           _  _ _       115    _   _ _ 1  3   _   _  _ _270               308              336         1202
Special Short Courses
VEW/AEO  b/                                          15642        0.07       1800    126    2800    196       3300    231    3871    271    3871    271             1095
Other staff  c/                                        567        1.00         80      80     100    100        129    129_    129    129       129    129           567
Sub total                                                                        206            _L296              360             400              400         1662
Orientation traininR                                   4073        0.10       2878    288    1195    120 a-                       -       -        -      -           408
VEW Refresher Training 20Z                               700       0.25        140      35     140      35       140     35      140      35      140     35          175
Scholarship                                                          -          -        -      -      150       -      250       -      250       -     250          900
TOTAL:  Training                                                      -         -      644       -     774        -     915        -     993       -    1021         4347
Physical contingencies (5%)  _/_                                                         6              16               24               24              24           94
GRAND TOTAL                                                                            650        _   790               939             1017            1045         4441
Note: a/ Twice a year for a total of about six days. Other staff includes AEO, SMS, SDAO, DAO.
b/ Once a year for about one week at district level.
c/ Specialised training primarily for SMS at all levels.
d/ Physical contingencies only calculated in training above sub-division level.



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Gutarat Ioqponent
Incremental StaE  Salaries
(Rs. '000)
Annual unit         1st Year        2nd Year        3rd Year         4th  Year       5th  Year                            Total
Incremental                        cost  a/          No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost                                Cost
Extension Staff
Headquarters:
Addl. Dir. of Agr.(Extn.)             30             1        30      1        30     1        30      1       30      1        30                           150
Subject Matter Specialist             12             3        36     3        36      3        36     3        36      3        36                           180
Sub total                                                 66              66               66              66              66                           330
Zonal:
Joint Director                        22             4        88      4       88      4        88      4       88      4        88                           440                 -
Dy. Director (Inputs)                 12             4        48      4       48      4        48     4        48      4        48                           240                0
Sub total                                               136              136             136              136             136                           680
District:
Additional D.A.0.                     12            10       120    16        160    16       160    16       160    16        160                           760
Subject Matter Specialist             11   -1                 11      2       22      2 _      2_   2  2       22      2        22                            99
Sub total                                          __131                 182     _       182              182             182                           859
Sub-Division:
S.D.A.O.                              11             -        -     11       121    11        121    11       121    11        121                           484
A.S.D.A.0.                            11             5        55    11       121    11        121    11       121    11        121                           539
S.M.S.                          _     10 _                          25       250    25        250    25       250    25        250                          1000
Sub total                                                 55             492             492         __492                4                            2023
Field Level:
VEW                                    6__         712 _ _4272   840   _504,0  8,40          5040  _840 _  5,040  _840  _  5040                            24432
Support Staff:
Headquarters  b/                      113           -        113    -        113    -         113    -        113    -         113                          565
Zones  c                               97 -                  388    -        388    -         388    -        388    -         388                         1940
Districts  d/                           9                     90    -        144    -         144    -        144    -         144                          666
Sub-divisions e/                      _31 _                 _  _   811    -  1152    -       1152    -        1152    -       1152                         5419
Sub total                                       -      1402             1797    -       1797    -        1797    -       1797                         8590
GRAND TOTAL                                     -      6062    -        7713    -        7713    -       7713    -        7713                       36914
Note:  a/  Includes basic pay plus regular allowances.                h/  2 technical officers, 2 statistical officers, clerks, typists, drivers.
c/  I technical officer, I assistant technical officer, clerks, typists, drivers.                  4/  Driver.
_e  Clerks, drivers.



INDIA
COIWOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Gujarat Component
Iincretental Operatitng Costs
(Ra.'000)
Unit cost         Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5           Total
Per man/year       No.   Cost      No.   Cost      No.  Cost       No,   Cost      No.   Cost         Cost
0perational Expenses & Extension Materials
yEW                                                          0.4  a/        2439      488   3440    1032   3440    1376   3440    1376   3440    1376           5648
AEO                                                          0.7   a/        306     107    431      226    431      302    431      302    431      302        1239
Sub-division and above                                       1.8   a/        133     120    202      272    202      364    202      364    202      364        1484
Sub total                                                                 -      715      -     1530     -      2042     -      2042     -     2042         8371
Incremental Housina Allowance:
New staff b/                                                                  -       69      -       85      -       85      -       85      -       85          409
Existing staff  c/                                                            -       64      -       64   _          64      -       64     -        64         320    -
Sub total                                                                 -_133           -      149       _     149     -       149     -       149         729
Incremental Travel Allowances and Expenses:
VEW   New                                                    0.56 d/         712      399    840     470    840      470:   840      470    840      470        2279
VEW   Existing                                               0.20 d/        2180      436   2600     520   2600      520   2600      520   2600      520         2516
AEO                                                          3.30  e/        306    1010    431    1422    431    1422    431    1422    431    1422             6698
Sub-Division                                                 1.80             93     167    136      245    136      245    136      245    136      245        1147
District and above                                           2.00       __ _52___ 104  _78          _ 156     78     156      78     156     78      156          728
Sub total                                   _1 I                                              _ f               813 _          2813      -   _213          11R
Vehicle Operaing_ Costs:
Headquarter petrol                                          17.5   f/          5      88       5      88       5      88       5      88      5       88          440
Zonal petrol and diesel                                     14,4    /          8     115       8     115       8     llS       8     115       8.  115           575
District diesel                                             11.25  i/         30     338      48     540      48     540      48     540     48      540         2498
Sub-division diesel                                         11.25  h/_        67    _754_  95    1069         95    1069     95    1069      95    1069         5030
TOTAL: Operating Costs All                                                -    4259       -    6304       -     6816      -    6816       -    6816        31011
Physical contingencies at 5                                                   -      213      -     _35             - -   34f    --    _341         34 551
GRAND TOTAL - Vehicle operating Costs                                    _      4472      -     6619 7_ 7157             -    7157             7 _ 7157  3259 _
Note:  a/  Includes printing of diaries, charts and instructional materials, samples of small implements, seeds and pesticides for demonstration/
training purposes, materials (poster, paper, paints) for simple visual slides.  Taken at 50% of cost in year 1, 757 of cost in year 2).
b/  Calculated at 10% of the incremental staff salaries (Table 5) for the 157 of the staff who rent quarters.
c/  Incremental of Rs. 10 p.m. for the 157 of the staff who rent quarters.
d/  Assumes existing fixed T.A. raised from Rs. 30 to Rs. 40 p.m. plus Rs. 7 p.m. for maintaining bicycle.
e/  AEOs mileage allowance Rs. 2400 per year (8000 kan x 0.3 per km) plus assumed T.A. adjusted to approximately Rs. 1200 per year
(Rs. 100 p.m.) from present average of about Rs. 300 per year.                                                                                            IL
f/  25,000 kms/year at Rs. 0.70 per km, includes 3 existing vehicles with HQ. (4 petrol plus 4 diesel)                                                           x
/  25,000 kms/yesr at Rs. 0.70 per km, for 4 petrol vehicles at Rs. 0.45 for 4 diesel vehicles.                                                              oj-
E/I 25,000 kms/year at Rs. 0.45 per km. includes one existing vehicle with each DAO,



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Gujarat Component
Monitoring and Evaluation
(Rs. '000)
Unit       Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5                 TOTAL
Cost (Rs.)  No.   Cost   No.  Cost  No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost
STAFF (Salaries & allowances)
Joint Director (Evaluation)   24,240        1     24      1    24    1    24       1    24      1    24                   120
Deputy Director (Evaluation)  14,640        1     15      1    15    1    15       1    15      1    15                    75
Deputy Director (Sociology)   14,640        1     15      1    15    1    15       1    15      1    15                    75
Tech.Officer (Ag.Economist)   12,720        1     13      1    13    1    13       1    13      1    13                    65
Tech.Officer (Social Scien-
tist)        12,720     1      13      1    13    1    13       1    13      1    13                   65
Agr. Officer (Research)          9,600      4     38      4    38    4    38       4    38      4    38                   190
Agr. Supervisor (Field)          7,680      4     31      4    31    4    31       4    31      4    31                   155
Agr. Supervisor (Data)           7,680    24    184    24   184   24   184    24   184    24   184                        920
Support Staff  a/                  -       14     61    14    61   14    61    14    61    14    61                       305
Sub-total                                    394          394         394          394          394                1,970
BQUIPMENT
Car                             35,000      1     35            -         -              -             -                   35
Jeep                            55,000      1     55            -          -             -             -                   55
Calculating machines             1,000    10      10            -         -              -             -                   10
Furniture                                         1             -          -             -             _                   10
Sub-total                                    110           -          -             -              _                 110
OPERATING COSTS
Car                             16,250            16           16          16            16           16                   80
Jeep                            10,000            10           10          10            10           10                   50
Office stationary, etc.         10,000            10            10          10           10           10                   50
Sub-total                                     36           36          36           36            36                  180
TOTAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION              540          430         430          430           430                2,260
Physical Contingencies (5%)                    7            2           2             2            1                   14
GRAND TOTAL                                       547           432         432          432          431                2,274
a/   Driver, clerks, typists, messenger.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDIA
ComPosITF. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Gujarat Component
Extension Staff Requirements
Incremental
Designation                Total needed          Existinr staff*      Requirements
VEW                           3440                   2600                  840
AEO                            431                    513                   -
SMS (Sub Division)              74                    53                    21
ASDAO                            21                    10                   11
SDAO                            37                     26                   11
SMS (District)                  48                    48                    _
Addl. DAO                        16                    -                    16
DAO                             18                     18                   -
Zonal JDA                        4                     _                     4
Zonal DDA                        4                                           4
SKS (Hq.)                        3                                           3
ADA Extn.                         1                    _                     1
TOTAL                   4097                  3268                  911
*Includes staff in other posts who will be redesignated;
82 surplus AEO will be posted in incremental posts. For
implementation, see Table 5.



- 44 -
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
GUJARAT COMPONENT
EXTENSION ORGANIZATION
|  D irector     l
of Agriculture
r
1                   3 Senior SMS|
ZONES 4                         Zonal (JDA)
DISTRICTS 18              District Agricultural Officer
lInformation      (Water          (Crop
Training)    Management)    Protection)
SUBDIVISIONS 37                Subdivisional   *
Agiutral Officer
(Agronomy)  (Plant
VEW i3440)
8 FARMER UNITS/VEW
10 CONTACT FARMERS/UNIT    200,000 CONTACT FARMERSA
100 FARM FAMILIES/UNIT          2.4 MILLION FARM FAMILIES
$ And 21 Additional Subdivisional Agricultural Officers.
A FOR INTENSIVE IRRIGATED AREA, RATIO OF 1 VEW/500 FARMERS.
World Bank - 19153



- 45 -
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
GUJARAT COMPONENT
LINKAGES BETWEEN EXTENSION & RESEARCH
State Level                             Statutory
Technical                                    Research
Committee                               Council
Directorate                           I                                       GUJARAT
of                                              s                  ^    Agricultural
Agricullture                         (                    s                   University
.|District Level                  Zoa
|~~~~Tchia                              Workshop
District                         
DAO            m          - -- -
(SMS)                                                  (Se    rm)
Subdivision I       #  S
SDAO                                                                W     B        1
(SMIS)
AEO
World Bank -19154



- 46-                       ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
HARYANA COMPONENT
I. General Description
1.        Haryana, located in north-central India, was formed in 1966 when the
state of Punjab was divided. The state is divided into 11 districts which are
further divided into 30 subdivisions. The total population is about 11 M
(1974) and the total geographical area about 44,000 sq km. Per capita income
was about US$140 (23% above the all-India average) in 1974/75. Agriculture is
the predominant industry. There are just over 1 M farm families cultivating
nearly 4 M ha, with an average farm size of about 3.8 ha. About 46% of the
farms are less than 2 ha and cover 11% of the land. Tenancy arrangements are
infrequent since over 90% of the land is cultivated by the owners. Cropping
intensity varies between 140% and 150%; 50% of the cropped area is irrigated.
2.        Haryana's climate is subtropical and semimonsoonal.  Mean monthly
temperatures vary from less than 15 0C in January to over 34 0C in June, with
a risk of frost between December and February. Rainfall, more than 80% of
which is concentrated in the June to August period, varies from less than
300 mm per year in the southwest to over 1,200 mm in the northeast. Most of
the state's cropped area can be divided very broadly into two zones:
(a)  the hot, semi-arid southwest which covers about 40% of the
state. It consists of the districts of Sirsa, Hissar,
Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Gurgaon, most of Rohtak and parts
of Jind. Less than 500 mm of rain falls annually and
sandy soils prevail. Pearl millet and gram are major crops
in rainfed areas and cotton and wheat are important crops
where irrigation is available.
(b)  the sub-humid zone, covering most of the rest of the state,
has mainly loam or silty loam soils, higher rainfall, and
more assured irrigation. In this area, wheat, paddy and
sugarcane are the major crops.
3.        The following table indicates the cropping pattern in the state:
Crop         % of Cropped Area       Crop        % of Cropped Area
Rice                  6.1             Oilseeds              2.2
Wheat                24.8             Cotton                4.5
Sorghum               3.4             Sugarcane             3.1
Pearl Millet         17.6             Other                17.9
Pulses               20.4               Total            100.0



47 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2
Haryana is correctly regarded as an agriculturally advanced state. It has a
high percentage of area irrigated, high cropping intensity, high levels of
fertilizer use, and widespread use of high-yielding varieties. Yet, yields of
most major crops have been stagnant since the late 1960s, at levels well below
achievable potential. Haryana's average foodgrain yields are only about
25-30% higher than the all-India average--a level hardly commensurate with the
above average use of irrigation and inputs. The Government is convinced that
an improved agricultural extension service is a key element in bringing yields
and farm incomes to higher levels and requested IDA assistance in designing
and financing a project to develop a more effective state extension agency.
II. Agricultural Services
Extension Services
4.        At present, field level extension work is the responsibility of
some 493 Agricultural Inspectors (AI), who usually have B.Sc. degrees in
Agriculture, and 193 Agricultural Sub-Inspectors (ASI) with lower educa-
tional qualifications. There are also some 450 Village Level Workers (VLW)
who undertook some agricultural extension work before they were merged with
panchayat (local government) secretarial staff. VLW now do no extension work.
The total number of AI and ASI is 686, resulting in a ratio of one extension
worker to nearly 1,500 farm families--far too many to be reached frequently
and regularly. Until recently, most of these extension workers worked at the
block level under the control of the Community Development Department and
were frequently diverted to other tasks. Recent administrative orders have
placed them under the direct control of the Subdivisional Agricultural Of-
ficer (SDAO). However, since each SDAO is responsible for some 23 field
staff (hereinafter referred to as Village Extension Workers or VEW) and
has no technical support, supervision and technical guidance of VEW is in-
adequate. Recently, VEW (AI and ASI) began to work toward establishing a
more regular pattern of visits to farmers; however, their numbers have been
too small and supervision too diluted to make a widespread impact.
Training and Education
5.        The Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), established in 1970 and
located in Hissar, is the main agricultural training institution in the state.
In 1975/76, it produced 258 B.Scs., 63 M.Scs. and 22 Ph.Ds. in agriculture
and allied fields. The degree programs primarily follow traditional academic
lines and consequently, most students graduate with insufficient knowledge
of practical agriculture. In addition to its activities at the main campus,
HAU has established a team of 8 District Extension Specialists (DES) in each
district, each with expertise in a particular discipline. These specialists
carry out training programs of various sorts on an ad hoc basis. There is
no other preservice or inservice training facility for DOA staff, though a
training effort is being made in temporary facilities at Rohtak. With the
recent introduction of a fixed schedule of farm visits for VEW, one day of VEW
inservice training each fortnight has been started at the district level.



- 48 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 3
Research
6.        Agricultural research is the responsibility of HAU and is carried
out at the Hissar campus, one other main station (Karnal) and at four substa-
tions. DES (mentioned above) carry out a limited program of trials in farmers'
fields in selected villages. DOA carries out a limited number of trials on
departmental seed farms and the demonstrations on farmers' fields. There is
no systematic program of trials on farmers' fields. At present, coordination
between DOA and HAU on research is achieved by the Secretaries of Agriculture
and allied departments serving as members of the university's Board of Manage-
ment and by the Directors of the Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Departments
serving as members of the Research Program Committee. In addition, HAU and
DOA organize seasonal workshops to evolve extension recommendations and
participate in a variety of other seminars, training sessions and workshops
(see Chart 19262). Proposals for the strengthening of the research activities
of HAU and its links with DOA can be considered for financing under the
recently approved National Agricultural Research Project.
Agricultural Credit
7.        Agricultural credit in Haryana is provided from a variety of sources
including 12 Cooperative Banks serving 2,171 primary outlets, 25 Land Develop-
ment Banks and 27 Commercial Banks with 279 rural branches. At present, most
credit comes from institutional sources with nearly 75% provided by the
cooperative movement. The present banking system in Haryana is well operated
and managed. It is sufficient for project needs and can cope with an expand-
ing demand for seasonal credit. IDA, both directly through the Haryana
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. No. 249-IN), and indirectly through lending
to ARDC (Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation) (Cr. Nos. 740-IN
and 715-IN) has played a major role in financing long term agricultural credit
in Haryana.
Input Supply
8.        Mechanisms for the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs
are relatively well-developed in Haryana with a network of both private
dealers and some 2,200 cooperative mini-banks meeting the bulk of the require-
ments. Use of fertilizer has grown rapidly and Haryana ranks among the top
four states in terms of fertilizer use per ha. Some 55% of the total cereals
area is under high yielding varieties and the IDA-financed National Seeds
Project (Ln. 1273-IN) will assist in further strengthening of the State
Seeds Corporation.
Marketing, Processing and Storage
9.        Marketing.  The Haryana State Marketing Board has established a
well-developed network of 87 regulated markets and 68 submarkets covering
all parts of the state. Purchasing operations by both state and central
procurement agencies have been effective in maintaining remunerative prices
to cultivators even in years of substantial surpluses. Processing facilities



- 49 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 4
are provided by the private and cooperative sectors and are adequate for
current and future needs. Storage requirements vary greatly depending on
annual foodgrain production. However, with an accelerating surplus food-
grain position, there is an increasing shortage of storage, particularly
of covered storage for foodgrains. Existing storage capacity in the state
has risen from 0.24 M tons in 1972 to 0.83 M tons in 1976. The public
sector organizations are expanding their facilities.
Transportation
10.       Four main railway lines and four national highways, all radiat-
ing out from Delhi, provide Haryana with good access to the rest of India.
Since 1970, 8,650 km of village roads have been constructed to service 5,306
villages. About 1,400 villages are still to be connected by all weather
roads.
III. The Project
A. General Description
11.       The project would support, for a five year period, the reorganization
and strengthening of agricultural extension throughout Haryana's 11 districts
by:
establishing a single line of command between full-time
village extension workers (VEW) and extension head-
quarters;
-    incorporating regular inservice training as an integral
part of extension operations;
-    introducing a fixed schedule for regular and frequent
visits by VEW to farmers' fields;
-    improving working linkages between extension operations
and agricultural research activities;
-    establishing regular monitoring and evaluation procedures;
and
-    providing the additional staff, operating funds, equip-
ment, vehicles, training facilities and rural housing
required to implement these reforms.
The main principles underlying the extension reorganization are the same as
applied in six previous IDA-assisted projects in India and are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System by D. Benor and
J. Harrison (World Bank, 1977).



- 50 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       The extension service would be instrumental in farm testing, demon-
stration and assisting farmers to adopt improved agricultural practices.  These
would include HYV, seed treatment, timely sowing, proper use of fertilizers,
measures for plant protection, and efficient use of irrigation water. In the
past, State Headquarters organized goals for the sale of seeds or fertilizers,
the number of demonstrations, plant protection campaigns, etc. The campaigns
were designed for different crops or practices each season and were not inte-
grated with overall management. Thus, they were generally of limited impact.
Because farmers vary greatly in their ability to integrate and apply new
practices, the extension program would assist farmers to identify crop pro-
duction constraints and to better manage available inputs. To help farmers,
the extension agents must be trained in field skills and make regular farm
visits. For further details, see Haryana Agricultural Extension Project
(January 1978) available in the project file.
B. Detailed Features
Incremental Staff Requirements
13.       The Government of Haryana intends to cover the entire state with
the reorganized extension service in one year. After reviewing various
factors, including the road transport system, diversity and intensity of
cropping, farmer responsiveness, and extent of irrigation, it was determined
that on average one VEW 1/ can deal effectively with about 700 farm families
each fortnight. VEW would be supervised and guided in the field by a more
experienced AEO. The SDAO would supervise the work of AEO and a team of
3 SMS headquartered in each subdivision. DAO would be responsible for
ensuring effective operations in all subdivisions in their districts. There
would be one crop production SMS at district level who would work with the
existing 8 DES 2/ of HAU, thus coordinating their support to the extension
service. Two Zonal Agricultural Officers (ZAO) would supervise the work of
the districts. A full-time Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA) for ex-
tension would be in charge of extension operations for the entire state. He
would be supported by a team of 4 senior SMS (See Chart 19151).
1/   In Haryana, the following designations are given to extension personnel
at various levels: VEW = Agricultural Development Officer (ADO); AEO =
Circle Agricultural Officer (CAO). Otherwise, the nomenclature is the
same as used in other portions of this report.
2/   One each in the fields of agronomy, horticulture, vegetables, soil
science, agricultural engineering, plant protection, farm management,
and animal husbandry. HAU has agreed that each of their DES would
devote at least 8 days a month to working with extension under the
direction of the Department of Agriculture.



- 51 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 6
14.       To implement this reorganization, Haryana would require about
1,490 VEW. At present, DOA has 686 staff (see para 4) and on June 9, 1978
sanctioned the transfer of 450 Village Level Workers from the Department of
Community Development. This leaves a net requirement of 354 VEW to be re-
cruited. The new recruits would be B.Sc. (Ag.). In addition, 186 AEO, 103
subdivisional SMS, 11 district SMS, 4 senior SMS and one ADA (Extension)
plus adequate administrative support staff at all levels would be required.
Tables 5 and 8, Annex 2, indicate the detailed incremental staff requirements.
Housing and Other Civil Works
15.       The reorganized extension service requires regular and frequent
farm visits by extension staff. Since housing in many rural areas in Haryana
is limited, the project would provide low-cost housing to about one-third of
the VEW and AEO, or a total of about 557 houses. The Haryana Cooperative
Marketing Federation (HAFED), which has extensive experience with rural
construction and administrative links with DOA, would be responsible for
construction and maintenance of the houses. The project would also support
the construction of a small staff training facility for the DOA. Thirty
subdivision offices would be constructed. Table 2, Annex 2 provides details
of the costs and phasing of the civil works component of the project.
Vehicles
16.       For the field extension staff to meet their fixed schedules and for
supervisory staff to reach the field easily and frequently, adequate vehicles
are essential. The project would provide funds to the state for motorcycle
loans to all AEO, subdivisional SMS and a portion of the VEW. Vehicles would
also be available to field investigators of the monitoring and evaluation
unit. The project would also provide about 72 sedans, 4-wheel drive vehicles,
and vans at the subdivision, district, zone and headquarters levels. Table 3,
Annex 2 provides details on the numbers and costing.
Equipment and Furniture
17.       The project provides funds for audio-visual aids to support
extension operations and for office furniture and equipment required for
expanded extension activities. Table 3, Annex 2 provides costing details.
Training
18.       The project would support a variety of inservice and preservice
training activities. The most important of these are described in para 32,
Annex 4. The fortnightly training session is central to the entire exten-
sion approach and an integral part of it. Newly recruited VEW would be given
an intensive practical course on crop production technology during which they
would learn how to grow one of the major crops. Gradually, over the project
period, all VEW would take such a course. The course would be held at a DOA
Training Institute to be developed under the project.



- 52 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 7
19.       The project provides for a training institute for DOA staff to
provide inservice training, including crop growing experience. DOA would
attempt to locate the institute close to a HAU research facility to enable
close contact and exchange between the training institute and research.
The principle would be of the rank of IDA. GOH would, by June 30, 1979,
reach agreement with IDA on the location, training objectives, course
content and syllabus for the training institute.
Operating Expenses
20.       DOA's operating expenses would increase with the implementation of
this project. Of particular importance would be the availability of funds and
materials for printing diaries, field notebooks and charts, purchase of small
implements, seeds and pesticides for training sessions and field trials.
Adequate funds would also be provided for incremental vehicle operating costs
and travel allowances. VEW and AEO who are not provided government housing
would be given an allowance to enable them to rent a house with an extra room
to serve as an office. Table 6, Annex 2 provides details on the incremental
operating expenditures included under the project.
Salaries and Incentives
21.       Extension work is carried out under difficult conditions and the
pay is poor. Haryana's salaries, however, are higher than those of many
states and it would not be possible to increase them further without disrupt-
ing all civil service pay scales. While greater job satisfaction is expected
with the increased professionalization of the extension service, more tangible
rewards may be necessary. Many of the items provided in the project--housing,
motorcycle loans, allowances for those renting housing to rent extra space
for an office, scholarships for higher study--would provide considerable
incentives to field staff. Moreover, two categories of staff (VLW and ASI),
which would be merged as VEW would have expanded opportunities for promo-
tion. About 20% of these VEW would receive a selection grade each year so
that by the end of the project period all such staff would have been promoted
to that grade.
Monitoring and Evaluation
22.       The project would provide for the establishment and operation of
a monitoring and evaluation system specifically designed to provide project
management with up-to-date information on the effectiveness of the extension
system. The head of the monitoring and evaluation unit would report to the
Secretary of Agriculture. The methodology used would be similar to that
described in World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 272, "A System of Monitoring
and Evaluating Agricultural Extension Projects." This system would complement
direct personal supervision by each level of project management. The cost
estimates are summarized in Annex 2, Table 7.



53                       ANNEX 2
Page 8
Project Costs
23.       Costs for the five-year period are detailed in Tables 1 to 7 of
Annex 2. Total component cost is US$13.2 M, including contingencies, duties
and taxes.
C. Operation
Extension Service
24.       A main feature of the reorganization of the extension service would
be the establishment of a single line of command from the DOA to the VEW. The
field extension staff would be under the direct administrative and technical
control of DOA. Extension staff from all special DOA crop-oriented schemes
would be merged to form a single extension service. They would work exclu-
sively on agricultural extension. The single line of command, the fixed
schedule of visits and the single purpose of work make supervision relatively
easy. One AEO would supervise about 8 VEW, spending at least four days a
week in the field with them.
25.       The Subdivisional Agricultural Officers (SDAO) would each supervise
the activities of about 6 to 8 AEO and some 50 VEW. SDAO would spend the bulk
of their time in the field. A team of SMS in each subdivision (one each for
crop production, crop protection and training, plus a horticultural specialist
in selected areas) would train VEW, provide them technical support and organ-
ize field trials. The SDAO's activities would be supervised by the District
Agricultural Officer. Each of the 8 district-level DES of HAU would devote
eight days a month to providing technical support to the extension service by
participating in training, making field visits to back up VEW and organizing
cooperative field trials. Their work would be directed and coordinated by a
DOA SMS in crop production at the district level.
26.       Two Zonal Agricultural Officers (ZAO) would supervise the work
of DAO in their zones. At headquarters, an ADA (Extension) would be appointed
to be fully and exclusively responsible, under the Director of Agriculture,
for supervising the extension service and ensuring its smooth operation.
Linkages between Research and Extension
27.       The project would seek to develop close working relationships
between extension and research personnel. The direct involvement of DES of
HAU in extension work (for a fixed part of their time) would facilitate
a link between field workers and the main departments of HAU. DOA SMS would
visit research stations servicing their areas frequently as a routine part of
their duties. Extension personnel and research workers would jointly develop
extension recommendations, and plan, execute and analyze field trials. Before
each crop season, a District Level Technical Committee, chaired by the DAO and
consisting of SMS, selected extension staff, and research workers from the



ANNEX 2
Page 9
zonal HAU research station, would review field trial results and develop a
preliminary proposal for the subsequent season's field trial program and
extension recommendations. A workshop at the zonal research station would
then be held which would include DAO and selected SMS, ADA (Extension) and
his senior SMS. At this workshop, district proposals would be reviewed and
refined. The results would be reviewed by the State Technological Committee
and referred back to the District Technical Committee for final modification
and implementation.
State Level Coordination
28.       A Project Coordination Committee would be established under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of Agriculture and would include representatives
of HAU and concerned government departments (Finance, Cooperation, HAFED,
Irrigation, and others as necessary). The committee would meet at least
once every season to review progress of the project and ensure cooperation
among the various governmental agencies.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Haryana Component
Summar  of Project Costs
(Rs. 000)
Foreign
Year                                                 Exchange
Civil Works (Table 2)                        1            2             3           4           5           TOTAL         x     Cost
Offices                                  1,100.0      1,100.0       1,100.0       -            -          3,300.0        -      -
Housing                                  1,190.0      8,330.0       3,737.0       -            -         13,257.0        -      -
Training Institute                         500.0      1,215.0         -           -            -          1,715.0        -     -
Subtotal                              2,790.0    10,645.0       4,837.0       -             -         18,272.0        -     -
Vehicles Equipment (Table 3)
Departmental vehicles                    3,605.0        -             -          _             _          3,605.0       25       901
Staff owned vehicles                     1,140.0      1,140.0       1,140.0      -             -          3,420.0       25      855
Equipment                                1,970.0         40.0         -          _             -          2,010.0       40      804
Subtotal                              6,715.0     1,180.0       1,140.0       -             -          9,035.        28    2,560
Training Costs (Table 4)                     898.2        744.5         774.5       788.3       777.5       3,983.0
Incremental Staff Salaries (Table 5)
Extension staff                    .     5,813.0      5.830.5       5,830.5    5,830.5      5,830.5      29,135.0        -     -
Incentive payment                          154.8        309.6         464.4      618.0        771.6       2,318.4        -     -
Administrative/support staff             1,253.4      1,253.4       1,253.4    1,253.4      1,253.4       6,267.0       _
Subtotal                              7,221.2      7,393.5       7,548.3    7,701.9      7,855.5      37,720.4        -     -
Incremental Operating Costs (Table 6)
Operating expenses                         690.7        940.1       1,189.4    1,189.4      1,189.4       5,199.0       30    1,560
Accommodation expenses                     651.7        633.7         615.1       615.1       615.1       3,130.7        -     -
Travel allowances                        2,031.8      2,031.8       2,031.8    2,031.8      2,031.8      10,159.0
Vehicle operating costs                    787.0        787.0         787.0      787.0        787.0       3,935.0       30    1,180
Subtotal                              4,161.2      4,392.6      4,623.3    4,623.3       4,623.3      22,423.7      12    2,740
Monitoring and Evaluation (Table 7)
Staff                                      427.2        427.2         427.2      427.2        427.2       2,136.0        -     -
Equipment/Vehicles                         456.0        -             -          -            -             456.0      40/25    129
Operating costs                            179.0        179.0         179.0      179.0        179.0         895.0       30      268
Subtotal                              1,062.2        606.2        606.2       606.2        606.2      3,487.0       11       397
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          22,847.8    24,961.8       19,529.3   13,719.7    13,862.5       94,921.1        6    5,697
Physical Contingencies                       524.0        799.8         520.8      279.5        279.0       2,403.1        6      144
Price Contingencies                        1,148.0      3,112.0       3,777.0    3,526.0      4,642.0      16,205.0        6      972
Total Contingencies                    1,672.0      3,911.8      4,297.8    3,805.5       4,921.0     18,608.1        -    1,116
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        24,519.8    28,873.6       23,827.1   17,525.2    18,783.5    113,529.2          6    6,813



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Haryana Component
Civil Works
(Rs.'000)
------------------   Y E A R -----------------___
Area  Rs./  Unit         1            2            3             4             5
Quantity   (M )   M    Cost  (No.)  Cost  (No.) Cost  (No.)  Cost  (No.)  Cost  (No.)  Cost  Total Cost
Housing a!
VEW                 (496)        55  433   23.8   (50) 1,190  (320) 7,616 (126) 2,999    -           -     -            11,805
AEO                  (61)        55  433   23.8      -    -      (30)   714  (31)   738    -         -     _      _      1,452
Sub-total                                               1,190         8,330        3,737                                13,257
Office's
Subdivision          (30)       200  550  110.0   (10) 1,100   (10) 1,100  (10) 1,100    -           -     -     -       3,300
Training Institute
Teaching complex                947  562                   250           282         -       -       -     -      -        532  Ln
Hostel complex                  622  562                   250          100          -       -       -     -      -         350  0'
Dining                          464  562                    -            261         -       -       -     -      -         261   1
Staff residences              1,017  562                    -           572          -       -       -     -      -        572
Sub-total                                                 500         1,215                                              1,715
Total (excluding contingencies)                             2,790       10,645        4,837                                18,272
Physical contingencies (5%)                                140           532         242                                   914
Grand Total                                                 2,930        11,177       5,079                                19,186
a/  Housing provided to one-third of the field-level (VEW and AEO) staff.  There is no government housing
provided at present for staff at this level.  Standard of housing proposed is within norms prescribed               ~M
by State Government for staff of this level.  It is somewhat higher than that provided in other states
due to higher educational qualifications of field-level staff in Haryana.



- 57 -
INDIA
ANNEX 2
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIoN PROJECT                      Table 3
Haryana Component
Vehicles  ndEui nt
Unit          1              2              3              4             5        Total
TY2j   QuantitY  Cost    (No.)  Cost   (No.)  Cost   (No.)  Cost   (No.)  Cost  (No.)  Cost  cost
Vehicles
Departmental
Headquarters               Sedan       (1)   35.0       (1)     35                                                                 35
4-WD        (1)   53.0       (1)     53                                                                 53
Van         (1)   62.0       (1)     62                                                                 62
Zone                      Sedan       (2)   35.0        (2)     70                                                                70
District                  4-WD       (11)   53.0       (11)    583                                                               583
Van        (11)   62.0      (11)    682                                                               682
Subdivision               4-WD       (37)   53.0       (37)  1,961                                                             1,961
Training Institute        Sedan       (1)   35.0        (1)     35                                                                35
Van        (2)   62.0        (2)    124            _              _              _             -       124
Subtotal                                                       3,605-                                                            3,605
Staff-owned
Motorcycles                           (570)    6.0   (190) 1,140    (190)  1,140    190   1,140                                3,420
Furniture/Office Equipment
Headquarters e/                                                 50           -               -              _             _        59
Zone                                  (2)    4.0 _W              8                                                                  a
District                             (11)    9.5 /            104                                                                104
Subdivision                          (30)   11.0 i/            330                                                               330
Base Level                         (1675)    0.4 e/            670                                                               670
Training Institute f/                                          103                                                                103
Subtotal                                                        1,265                                                             1,265
Audio Visual Equipment
Headquarters g/                              55.0               45              10           -              -             -        55
District h/                          (11)   40.0               440           -               -              -             -      440
Training Institute  i/                                          60             30            -              -             -        90
Other extension aids  i/                                       160           -               -              -             -       160
Subtotal                                                         705              40                                                745
Total                                                            6,715          1,180         1,140                                9,035
Phviy a  Contingencies                                              99               2                                                101
(5% on Equipment)
Grand Total                                                      6,814          1,182          1,140                               9,136
a,/  Includes furniture, typewriters, duplicator.
b/   Rs.4,000 for furniture + office equipment for each zone.
c/   Includes Rs.6,000 for furniture + 3,500 for typewriter for each District.
I/   Includes Rs.7,500 for furniture + 3,500 for typewriter for each Subdivision.
e/   Desk, chair and &ocker for office.
F/   Includes Rs.88,000 for furniture and Rs.15.000 for office equipment.
/    Includes basic visual aids (movie, slide and overhead projectors, blackboards, screens,
flannel board), facilities for silk screen printing of poaters and charts,
h/   Basic visual aids.
if Basic visual aids (Rs. 40,000) plus books (Rs. 50,000).
f Includes folding blackboard for VEW (Rs. 100) and small library and insect
preservation box at subdivision (Rs. 300).



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Haryana Component
Training Costs
(Rs. '000)
------------------------- Y E A R -------------------------
Unit                     1                2                3               4                5
Type of Training a!        Cost  Quantity   (No.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost   (NQ.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost   Total Cost
A. In-Service Training
pre-season(VEW) b/    0.07   (7450)        (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3    521.5
pre-season
(others)b/          0.10    (341)       (341)   34.1   (341)   34.1   (341)   34.1   (341)   34.1   (341)   34.1    170.5
short courses (VEW)   0.07   (7450)        (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3  (1490)  104.3    521.5
short courses
(others)            1.00    (341)       (341)  341.0   (341)  341.0   (341)  341.0   (341)  341.0   (341)  341.0  1,705.0
Foundation Course                                                                                                                        U
(VEW)               0.40   (1490)       (280)  112.0   (280)  112.0   (310)  124.0   (310)  124.0   (310)  124.0    596.0   OD
Zonal Workshop          0.10   (1000)       (200)   20.0   (200)   20.0   (200)   20.0   (200)   20.0   (200)   20.0    100.0   I
Subtotal                                        715.7            715.7            727.7            727.7            727.7  3,614.5
B. Orientation Training
Subtotal. All Staff   0.10   (1825)    (1825)  182.5    -             -       -        -       -        -       -        -       182.5
C. Scholarships
VEW c/                  1.8       (65)       -        -       (11)   19.8    (16)   28.8       (22)   39.6      (16)   28.8    117.0
Others d/               3.0       (23)       -        -        (3)    9.0       (6)   18.0       (7)   21.0       (7)   21.0      69.0
Subtotal                                                          28.8             46.8             60.6             49.8    186.0
Total                                               898.2           744.5            774.5            788.3            777.5  3,983.0
Physical Contingencies
(5%)                                  44.9             37.2             38.7             39.4             38.9    199.1
GRAND TOTAL                                         943.1           781.7            813.2            827.7            816.4  4,182.1
aJ   See Annex 5 for description of courses.
b/   Total for both seasons                                                                                                             l
5I   One from each district in second year.  One from every two                                                                         |
districts thereafter.
d/   Two AEOs for M.Sc. per year after second year.  One SMS for
Ph.D. per year after second year.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
haryana Component
Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives
(Rse. '000)
Annual
Unit             ----                                Y E A R ----------------------------
Cost            1                   2                   3                   b                   5            Total
(Rs.'000) (No.)  Cost          (No.)  Cost         (No.)  Cost          (No.)  Cost         (No.)  Cost        Cost
Incremental Extension Staff
ADA             20.0        (1)      20.0       (1)      20.0       (1)       20.0      (1)       20.0      (1)       20.0         100.0
Headquarters - SUPT               26.4        (1)      26.4       (1)      26.4       (1)      26.4       (1)      26.4       (1)      26.4         132.0
SMS             13.2        (4)      52.8       (4)      52.8       (4)      52.8       (4)      52.8       (4)      52.8          264.0
- JDA              24.0        (2)      48.0       (2)      48.0      (2)       48.0       (2)      48.0       (2)      48.0         240.0
zone           - TA                7.3        (2)      14.6       (2)      14.6       (2)      14.6       (2)      14.6       (2)      14.6           73.0
District       - SMS              13.0       (11)    143.0       (11)    143.0    (11)    143.0    (11)    143.0             (11)    143.0          715.0
Subdivision  - SMS                12.1     (103)  1,236.0   (103)  1,236.0   (103)  1,236.0   (103)  1,236.0   (103)  1,236.0                     6,180.0
Field Level  - ABO a/              8.8     (191)  1,680.8   (193)  1,698.3   (193)  1,698.3    (193)  1,698.3   (193)  1,698.3                    8,474.0
Field -Level  _ VEW  7.1    (365)  2,591.4   (365)  2,591.4   (365)  2,591.4   (365)  2,591.4    (365)  2,591.4                  12,957.0
Sub-total                                        5,813.0             5,830.5             5,830.5             5,830.5             5,830.5      29,135.0
Incentive Payment b/               1.2     (129)    154.8   (258)         309.6   (387)    464.4   (515)          618.0   (643)       771.6       2,318.4
Incremental Admin/Supyort Staff
Headquarters - Eat.Off.        13.2        (1)       13.2      (1)       13.2      (1)       13.2      (1)       13.2       (1)      13.2         66.0
- AAO                          13.2        (1)      13.2       (1)      13.2       (1)       13.2      (1)       13.2      (1)       13.2         66.0
- Superintendent               11.9        (3)      35.7       (3)      35.7       (3)      35.7       (3)      35.7       (3)       35.7        178.5
- Assistants                    6.2        (6)      37.2       (6)       37.2      (6)       37.2      (6)       37.2      (6)       37.2        186.0
- Stenographers                 622        (5)      31.0       (5)      31.0       (5)       31.0      (5)      31.0       (5)      31.0        255.0
- Clerk/typist                  4.8       (10)      48.0      (10)      48.0    (10)        48.0      (10)      48.0      (10)       48.0        240.0
- Driver                        4.8        (6)      28.8       (6)      28.8       (6)      28.8       (6)      28.8       (6)       28.8       144.0
- Other                         3.6        (5)      18.0       (5)       18.0      (5)       18.0      (5)       18.0      (5)       18.0         90.0
Zone - Account Clerk            4.5        (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0        45.0
- Driver                        4.5        (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0      (2)        9.0        45.0
- Other                         3.4        (2)        6.8      (2)        6.8      (2)       6.8       (2)       6.8       (2)       6.8         34.0
District
- Superintendent               10.0       (11)    110.0    (11)        110.0    (11)       110.0    (11)       110.0    (11)       110.0        550.0
- Head Clerk                     7.5       (4)      30.0       (4)      30.0       (4)      30.0       (4)      30.0       (4)      30.0        150.0
- Clerk                         4.5       (22)      99.0      (22)      99.0    (22)        99.0      (22)      99.0      (22)      99.0        495.0
- Stenographer                  5.7       (11)      62.7      (11)      62.7      (11)      62.7      (11)      62.7    (11)        62.7        313.5
- Other                         3.1       (11)      34.1      (11)      34.1    (11)        34.1      (11)      34.1      (11)      34.1        170.5
Subdivision
- Stenographer                   5.7      (30)    171.0       (30)     171.0    (30)    171.0         (30)    171.0    (30)        171.0        855.0
- Clerk                         4.5       (30)    135.0       (30)    135.0    (30)        135.0      (30)    135.0    (30)        135.0        675.0
- Driver                        4.5       (37)    166.5       (37)    166.5    (37)        166.5      (37)    166.5       (37)     166.5        832.5
- Typist                        4.5       (12)      54.0      (12)      54.0    (12)        54.0    (12)        54.0      (12)      54.0        270.0
- Messenger                     3.1       (30)      93.0      (30)      93.0    (30)        93.0      (30)      93.0      (30)      93.0        465.0
Training Institute
- Artist                        7.1        (1)        7.1      (1)       7.1       (1)       7.1       (1)       7.1       (1)       7.1         35.5
- Stenographer                   5.8       (1)        5.8      (1)       5.8       (1)       5.8       (1)       5.8       (1)       5.8         29.0
- Driver                        4.5        (3)      13.5       (3)      13.5       (3)      13.5       (3)      13.5       (3)      13.5         67.5
- Clerk/Cook                    4.5        (2)       9.0       (2)       9.0       (2)       9.0       (2)       9.0       (2)       9.0         45.0
- other                          3.2       (4)      12.8       (4)      12.8       (4)      12.8       (4)      12.8       (4)      12.8         64.0
Subtotal                                      1,253.4             1,253.4             1,253.4             1,253.4             1,253.4      6,267.0
GRANT) TOTAL                                     7,221.2             7,393.5            7,548.3             7,701.9             7,855.5    37,720.4
a/ Allow a training reserve of 33 AEO and 55 VE1.
b/  Each year 20% of the VLWs and ASIs merged as VEWa will receive a aelection grade,  By the end of 5 years all such sta.ff
will be at that level.  This implies an increase in pay of about As, 100 p,um,



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Haryana Component
Incremental Operating Costs
(Rs . '000)
Unit
Cost
(per                       -------------------           Y E A R
Operating Expenses and  man                          1                2                3                4                5
Extension Materials         year) (Number)   (No.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost   (No.)   Cost    Total Cost
VEW a/                   0.4a/ (7450)    (1490)  298.0  (1490)  447.0  (1490)  596.0  (1490)  596.0  (1490)  596.0   2,533.0
AEO                      0.6    (930)        (186)   55.8   (186)   83.7   (186)  111.6   (186)  111.6   (186)  111.6              474.3
Other Staff b/           1.8.V   (805)       (161)  144.9   (161)  217.4   (161)  289.8   (161)  289.8   (161)  289.8   1,231.7
Other Expenses c/                                   192.0            192.0            192.0            192.0            192.0      960.0
Subtotal                                         690.7            940.1           1189.4          1189.4           1189.4   5,199.0
Incremental Accominoda-
tion Expenses
House allowance d/                                  243.0            243.0            243.0            243.0            243.0   1,215.0
Office allowance e/    0.60                 (540)  324.0   (510)  306.0   (479)  287.4   (479)  287.4   (479)  287.4   1,492.2
Maintenance fI           0.12                (706)   84.7   (706)   84.7   (706)   84.7   (706)   84.7   (706)   84.7              423.5
Subtotal                                         651.7            633.7            615.1            615.1           615.1   3,130.7
Incremental Travel
Aliowances /Eipnses
VEW a/ - New             1.2                (354)  424,8   (354)  424,8   (354)  424,8   (354)  424,8   (354)  424,8   2,124.0
- Existing        0.7              (1136)  795.2  (1136)  795.2  (1136)  795.2  (1136)  795.2  (1136)  795.2   3,976.0
AEO h/ -                 2.4                (186)  446.4   (186)  446.4   (186)  446.4   (186)  446.4   (186)  446.4   2,232.0
Subdivision i/
New                   2.4                (103)  247.2   (103)  247.2   (103)  247.2   (103)  247.2   (103)  247.2   1,236.0
Existing              1.4                 (30)   42.0    (30)   42.0    (30)   42.0    (30)   42.0    (30)   42.0               210.0
District i/
New                   3.0                 (11)   33.0    (11)   33.0    (11)   33.0    (11)   33.0    (11)   33.0               165.0
Existing              1.6                 (11)   17.6    (11)   17.6    (11)   17.6    (11)   17.6    (11)   17.6                88.0
Zone k/ - Existing       1.7                   (2)    3.4       (2)    3.4      (2)    3.4       (2)    3.4       (2)    3.4        17.0
Headquarters             3.0                   (5)   15.0       (5)   15.0      (5)   15.0       (5)   15.0       (5)   15.0        75.0
Training Institute       1.2                   (6)    7.2      (6)    7.2       (6)    7.2       (6)    7.2       (6)    7.2        36.0
Subtotal                                        2031.8           2031.8          2031.8           2031.8           2031.8  10,159.0
Vehicle Operating   (Per vehicle
Costs                  per year)
Subdivision (diesel)  11 0-'    37            (37)  407.0    (37)  407.0    (37)  407.0    (37)  407.0    (37)  407.0   2,035.0
District (diesel)       11.01      22         (22)  242.0    (22)  242.0    (22)  242.0    (22)  242.0    (22)  242.0   1,210.0
Zone (petrol)           21:0-!      2          (2)   42.0       (2)   42.0      (2)   42.0       (2)   42.0       (2)   42.0       210.0
Headquarters n/
(petrol) m/          21.0-'      2         (2)   42.0       (2)   42.0       (2)   42.0       (2)   42.0       (2)   42.0       210.0
(diesel) o/          13.5l      4         (4)   54.0       (4)   54.0       (4)   54.0       (4)   54.0       (4)   54.0       270.0
Subtotal                                         787.0            787.0            787.0            787.0            787.0   3,935.0
Total                                              4161.2           4392.6           4623.3           4623.3           4623.3  22,423.7
Pbysical contingencies (5X)                         208,1            219,6            231,1            231,1            231.1   1,121,0
GRAND TOTAL                                            4369.3          4612.2           4854.4           4854.4           4854.4  23,544.7
a/   Includes printing of diaries, charts, and instructional materials, samples of small implements, seeds,
pesticides for field trials and training. poster Paper and Daints for simple visual Aids. Taker At
502 of unit cost in year 1, 75% in year 2, 100% thereafter.
b/   Includes SMS (103+11), SDAO (30), DAO (1) and Training Institute Staff (6).
cl   At Rs 4,000 per subdivision, district and zonal office per year plus 20,000 per year for Training Institutes
= 192,000 per year.
dl   Calculated at 12k1% of salary of those posted in Chandigarh, 71 for others posted at subdivision and above
(See Table 8). Rs 57.51 + Rs 185.5 per year.
e/   Rs 50 p.m. per new VEW/AEO without government housing to rent room adjacent to house for office.
ft Hot and cold weather charges for incremental staff.
New VEW1 @ Rs 100 p.m.; existing 9 Rs 70 p.m.
h/   All AEOs new @ Rs 200 p.m.
i/   New subdivisional staff @ Rs 200 p.m.; existing @ Rs 120 p.m.
i/   New @ Rs 250 p.m.; old @ Rs 130 p.m. (250-120)
k/   Calculated as Rs 140 p.m. (290 p.m. - 150 p.m.)
1/   25.000 km per year @ .45 Rs/km.
ml   30,000 km per year @ .70 Rs/km.
n/   Includes Training Institute.
O/   30,000 km per year @ .45 Rs/km.



-61 -                                                 ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Raryana Component
Monitoring and Evaluation
(Rs '000)
 -------------------------- Year ------- -------------------
Incremental Staff and                   Annual                   1              2             3             4              5        Total
Salaries                         Unit Cost             No.   Cost    No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   Cost
Hleadquarters
- JDA (Stat.)                          21.7               (1)   21.7    (1)   21.7   (1)   21.7   (1)   21.7   (1)   21.7           108.5
- Economist/Res. Officer a/            13.1               (2)   26.2    (2)   26.2   (2)   26.2   (2)   26.2   (2)   26.2           131.0
- Statist. Assistant                    7.3               (4)   29.2    (4)   29.2   (4)   29.2   (4)   29.2   (4)   29.2           146.0
- Computor                              4.5               (4)   18.0    (4)   18.0   (4)   18.0   (4)   18.0   (4)   18.0            90.0
Field Supervisor b/                      13.1                (4)   52.4    (4)   52.4   (4)   52.4   (4)   52.4   (4)   52.4           262.0
Field Investigator c/                     7.3               (30)  219.0   (30)  219.0  (30)  219.0  (30)  219.0  (30)  219.0   1,095.0
Subtotal                                                        366.5          366.5         366.5         366.5         366.5   1,832.5
Support Personnel
- Accountant                            6.2               (1)    6.2    (1)    6.2   (1)    6.2   (1)    6.2   (1)    6.2             31.0
- Stenographer                          5.7                (3)   17.1    (3)   17.1   (3)   17.1   (3)   17.1   (3)   17.1            85.5
- Clerk-Typist                          4.8                (3)   14.4    (3)   14.4   (3)   14.4   (3)   14.4   (3)   14.4            72.0
- Driver                                4.5                (1)    4.5    (1)    4.5   (1)    4.5   (1)    4.5   (1)    4.5            22.5
- Other                                 3.7                (5)   18.5    (5)   18.5   (5)   18.5   (5)   18.5   (5)   18.5            92.5
Subtotal                                                         60.7           60.7          60.7          60.7           60.7      303.5
Subtotal - All Personnel                                          427.2          427.2         427.2         427.2          427.2   2,136.0
Equipment
- Vehicles - Sedan                     35.7               (5)  175.0       -     -       -     -       -      -      -      -        175.0
- Staff owned motorcycles               6.0              (30)  180.0       -     -       -     -       -      -      -      -        180.0
- Furniture - calculators,
office equipment                                           101.0      -      -      -      -       -     -       -     -        101.0
Subtotal                                                        456.0        -              -      -      -          -      -        456.0
Operating Costs
- Operating Costs and Expenses                                   20,0           20,0          20,0           20,0          20,0      100,0
- Vehicles                                                 (5)  105.0    (5)  105,0   (5)  105,0   (5)  105,0   (5)  105,0           525,0
- Travel Allowance                      1.2              (45)   54.0   (45)   54.0  (45)   54,0  (45)   54,0  C45)   54.0            270.0
Subtotal                                                        179.0          179.0         179.0         179.0          179.0      895.0
Total - Monitoring and Evaluation                               1,062.2          606.2          606.2         606.2         606.2   3,487.0
Physical Contingencies at 5%                                       32              9              9             9             9         68
GRAND TOTAL                                                     1,094.2          615.2          615.2         615.2         615.2   3,555.0
a/ One can be a Sociologist.
b/ One per 8 field investigators.
c/ One per subdivision.



- 62 -                    ANNEX 2
Table 8
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Haryana Component
Requirement of Extension Staff by Year
First   Second   Third   Fourth   Fifth
ear   year        year    year       year
ADO's Existing Staff                     1,136   1,490    1,490   1,490    1,490
New Staff required                         354      -         -        -         _
Cumulative                               1,490   1,490    1,490   1,490    1,490
CAO's
Existing Staff                             -        186       186      186       186
New Staff required                         186      -         -        -         -
Cumulative                                 186      186       186      186       186
SUB-DIVISIONS
Existing SDAO                                30      30        30       30        30
New SDAO required                          -        -                  _ 
Cumulative                                  30       30        30       30        30
Existing SMS                               -        103       103      103       103
New SMS required                           103      -         -        -         -
Cumulative                                 103      103       103      103       103
DISTRICT LEVEL
Existing DDAs                                11      11        11       11        11
New DDAs required                          -        -         -        -        _
Cumulative                                  11       11        11       11        11
Existing SMS/AIO                                     11        11       11        11
Required                                    11      -         -        -
Training Reserve VEW & AEO                   16      18        18       18        18
ZONAL LEVEL
Existing JDAs                                2        2         2        2        2
Required JDAs                                2        2         2        2        2
Cumulative                                   4        4         4        4        4
STATE LEVEL   (Chandigarh)
Existing SMS                                          4         4        4        4
Required                                     4      _         _         _        _
Cumulative                                   4        4         4       4         4
Existing ADA                                          1         1        1         1
Required                                     1      -         -       -
Cumulative                                   1        1         1        1         1



- 63 -
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
HARYANA COMPONENT
EXTENSION ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
ADA (EXTN.)
|             | 4 Senior SMS  |F;
Zones (2)                        ZONALJDA
Districts 111 )           DISTRICT AGRICULTRUAL                 CROPDES
OFFICER                    PRODUCTION         OF HAU
Subdivisions (30)      SUBDIVISIONALAGRICULTURAL
Subdivsions 30)   lsOFFICER
|                 | ~~~3T0 4|
-                    I       _                  _=~
8 Farmer Units/VEW
about 10 contact farmers/Unit ) 110,000 contact
farmers
about 85-90 farm fami lies/Unit I 1 million farm
families
World Bank - 19151



- 64 -
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
HARYANA COMPONENT
LINKAGES BETWEEN EXTENSION & RESEARCH
State Level                             Statutory
Technical      _----                   Research
Committee                                (Hcil
    s                  s    ~~~~~~~~~Agricultural
Agriculture                          A                   s                     Un iversity
SbdviinExtension
t   l    Headquarters
st Tech nical                   Wokso               Reeac
District              
DAO      _                                                     ied Trial
ISMS IDES I                                                  Progranns
|Subdivision         go -  <
SDAO        0 so
( SMS)
AEO
VVorld Bank -19262



- 65 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
KARNATAKA COMPONENT
I. General Description
1.        Karnataka, located in southwestern India, is divided into 19 dis-
tricts which are further subdivided into 175 taluks. The total popu;ation
is about 30 M and the total geographic area approximately 192,000 km . Per
capita income of Rs 785 in 1975/76 was below the All-India average. Agricul-
ture accounts for some 60% of income in the state. There are about 3.56 M
farm families cultivating 11.4 M ha with an average farm size of about 3.2 ha.
Fifty-four percent of all farm families cultivate less than 2 ha and about
93% of the land is farmed by owners. About 14% of the area sown is irrigated
and the statewide cropping intensity is between 105 and 110%.
2.        Karnataka's cropped area can be divided into four distinct agro-
ecological zones: (a) a long, narrow coastal belt lying between the Western
Ghats and the Arabian Sea which receives a high (2,500 mm) and assured rain-
fall during the southwest monsoon season. Rice is the main crop; coconut,
cashews and arecanut are also extensively grown. About 2% of the State's
cultivated area falls in this zone; (b) the Western Ghats, a long narrow
mountainous area to the east of and parallel to the coastal belt. Rainfall
is heavy and reliable. The main crops grown are rice, coffee, coconut,
arecanut and spices. About 5% of the cultivated area is in this zone;
(c) the northern plateau, drained by the Krishna, Bhima and Tungabadhra
rivers. Rainfall varies widely over this vast area, being somewhat higher
along the western and northeastern parts, but the bulk of the zone receives
less than 600 mm per year with large variations from year to year. The prin-
ciple crops are sorghum, pearl millet, wheat, groundnuts and cotton; paddy
is important in irrigated areas. The zone covers nearly 65% of the State's
cultivated area; and (d) the southern plateau, drained by the Cauvery,
Tungabadhra and Penner rivers. Rainfall ranges from 500 mm in the northwest
to 760 mm in the west with wide year-to-year variations. Pearl and finger
millets, sorghum, pulses and oilseeds are the dominant rainfed crops; paddy
and sugarcane are important in irrigated areas. About 28% of the State's
cultivated area lies in this zone.
3.        Karnataka's variable agro-ecological conditions have produced a
highly diverse series of farming systems. The cropping pattern is indicated
in the following table:



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Percentage of                     Percentage of
Crop                   Cropped Area         Crop          Cropped Area
Sorghum                       17.9            Pulses             11.5
Paddy                         10.9            Oilseeds           11.4
Finger Millet                  9.7            Cotton              9.5
Pearl/other Millets            8.2            Sugarcane           1.0
Wheat                          3.4            Other              15.2
Maize                          1.3               Total          100.0
4.        Karnataka has experienced a relatively rapid growth in agricultural
production. Foodgrain yields rose substantially during the second half of
the 1960s and yields of most major crops are now near or above the All-India
average. This is a considerable achievement given the low level of irrigation.
Fertilizer use, at 19 kg/ha is fairly high given the dominance of rainfed
agriculture. However, since the early 1970s, yields of most major crops have
stagnated and remain well below achievable potential. Karnataka's strategy
for improving agricultural production has two major thrusts: (i) to increase
the area under effective irrigation, thereby reducing dependence on highly
variable rainfall; and (ii) to raise production in rainfed areas (some 85%
of the cropped land) which will continue to dominate Karnataka's pattern of
agricultural production even after all potential areas are irrigated. The
Government of Karnataka is convinced that a strengthened extension service
would be a critical element in achieving both these objectives: in irrigated
areas by providing farmers with sound technical advice on how to use available
water and inputs; and in rainfed areas by the rapid and thorough dissemination
of new and simple technology. Consequently, GOK requested IDA assistance in
designing and financing an improved State agricultural extension service.
II. Agricultural Services
5.        Extension Service.  Although Karnataka has a relatively effective
extension service, a number of weaknesses have emerged which the Government
is determined to correct. At present, field level extension work is the
responsibility of about 2,600 multipurpose village level workers (VLW), who
operate under the control of the Community Development Department's Block
Development Officer, and of about 1,930 agents working in special crop-oriented
extension programs. Both groups of staff have similar educational qualifica-
tions (secondary school plus two years of specialized training). Combined,
the two groups give a relatively low ratio of extension staff to farm families
(1:785), but the following factors limit their effectiveness:
(a)  the 2,600 multipurpose workers are often diverted to non-
agricultural work;
(b)  the workers on special schemes are often limited to
single crops and are often fully occupied by paper work
involving crop subsidies and inputs;



-67 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 3
(c) some 900 budgeted positions are now vacant which brings the
ratio of extension staff to farm families up to about 1:1,000;
(d) field work is not systematically scheduled;
(e) AEO, immediate supervisors of these extension workers,
spend more time in office work under the Block Development
Officer than in guiding workers in the field; and
(f) the 80 subject matter specialists (SMS) located at subdivisional
level are usually engaged in the logistics of input supply
and regulatory functions rather than in technical support
and training of extension staff.
6.        Training and Education.  The University of Agricultural Sciences
(UAS), established in 1965, is the leading agricultural training institution
in the state. It has two main campuses, at Hebbal (near Bangalore) and at
Dhawar, and other training facilities in the various agro-ecological zones
of the state. In 1975/76, UAS graduated 350 B.Scs., 69 M.Scs. and 6 Ph.Ds. in
agriculture and allied fields. UAS has about 80 Extension Guides involved in
testing research findings on farmers' fields. This limited extension effort
assists UAS in developing and testing both its research findings and extension
methods. The campus at Hebbal also organizes short training programs in
various fields for DOA staff. There are five VLW Training Centers 1/, each
with a capacity of about 100-120 trainees, giving two year preservice training
courses to VLW. Three centers also train women workers in various fields.
7.        Research.  Agricultural research is the responsibility of the
UAS and is carried out at the main campus at Hebbal and at five regional
research stations representing the main agro-ecological zones in the state.
A network of some 35 substations provides opportunities for location-specific
testing of research results. Both the Extension Guides and DOA staff carry
out field tests and demonstrations of research findings on farmers' fields.
There is a formal memorandum of understanding between the UAS and the DOA
defining areas of responsibility and mechanisms for cooperation. The Director
of Agriculture sits on the UAS Research Committee. An Extension Coordination
Committee and a Training Committee, consisting of UAS and DOA staff, jointly
plan activities in these areas. Seasonal workshops provide an opportunity
for DOA and UAS staff to review technical recommendations and discuss topics
for research. Although exchange of staff between DOA and UAS does take place,
there is scope for widening the opportunities for this. There is also scope
for making contact between UAS and DOA more regular and systematic.
8.        Agricultural Credit.  The Karnataka State Cooperative Apex Bank is
the primary institutional source for short- and medium-term credit for agri-
culture. It conducts business through a network of 19 District Cooperative
1/   Now designated Rural Development Training Centers (RDTC).



- 68 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 4
Central Banks and 5,348 village-level credit cooperatives. Over the past
three years, the volume of short- and medium-term lending by cooperatives has
grown by nearly 20% p.a. Commercial banks, with about 1,760 branches, also
provide agricultural credit. The Karnataka State Cooperative Land Develop-
ment Bank, operating a network of 176 taluk-level Primary Land Development
Banks, is the major source for longer term agricultural credit. IDA, both
directly through the Karnataka Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. No. 278-IN),
and indirectly through lending to ARDC (Cr. No. 715-IN), has assisted in
the development of long-term agricultural lending in the state.
9.        Agricultural Inputs.  Karnataka's input supply system is fairly
well developed. The Department of Agriculture, National Seeds Corporation,
private firms and cooperative agencies produce and distribute certified seeds
of high yielding varieties of various crops. These are tested and certified
by the Seed Certification Agency. The state's seed production activities
are to be strengthened under the IDA-assisted Second National Seeds Project.
Fertilizer distribution takes place through a network of some 6,100 public and
private fertilizer distribution points, including 140 agricultural stores
established by the Karnataka Agro-Industries Corporation.
10.       Marketing and Processing.  The State Marketing Board controls
about 108 regulated markets and 163 regulated submarkets where traders are
licensed and produce is inspected, graded and weighed according to standards
set forth in the Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act of 1966.
The State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation carries out procurement
operations for paddy and sorghum. Over the past several years, market prices
of these crops have not fallen below the procurement prices. An IDA project
(Cr. No. 378-IN) is assisting in the development of marketing facilities.
Processing facilities are provided by the private sector and are adequate
for present needs.
11.       Transportation from the farm to market is undertaken by bullock
carts, while onward movement is predominantly by truck on good state and
national highways.
III. The Project
A. General Description
12.       The project would support, for a five year period, the reorganiza-
tion and strengthening of agricultural extension throughout Karnataka's 19
districts by:
(i) establishing a single line of command between full-time
village extension workers (VEW) and extension headquarters;
(ii)  incorporating regular inservice training as an integral
part of extension operations;



- 69 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 5
(iii) introducing a fixed schedule for regular and frequent visits
by VEW to farmers' fields;
(iv) improving working linkages between extension operations and
agricultural research activities;
(v) establishing regular monitoring and evaluation procedures; and
(vi) providing the additional staff, operating expenses, equipment,
vehicles, training, office facilities and rural housing
required to implement these reforms.
The main principles underlying the extension reorganization are the same as
applied in six previous IDA-assisted projects in India and are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System (World Bank, May 1977).
13.       Initially, the new extension service would concentrate on major
crops and a few important aspects of production technology which can be
easily adapted by small farmers. These include better land preparation,
use of improved seeds, seed treatment, timely sowing, obtaining optimum
plant population, weeding, etc. which require little increase in cash costs.
These management practices provide opportunities to use labor more efficiently.
In block demonstration studies conducted from 1975 to 1977 which involved
14,000 farmers and 13,400 ha, these practices resulted in yield increases of
25% to 90% over the benchmark control. Yield increases of at least 30% can
be obtained with available technology There is a wide gap between research
recommendations and farmer use. The first task of extension will be to close
this gap before small farmers are asked to employ sophisticated techniques.
Extension recommendations will be identified first by the District Technical
Committees, later reviewed and approved by the Zonal Workshop and the State
Technical Committee before being returned to the AEO and VEW for implementa-
tion. More details are contained in Project for Agricultural Extension and
Research in Karnataka (December 1977), available in the project file.
B. Detailed Features
14.       Incremental Staff Requirements.  The Government of Karnataka (GOK)
intends to cover the entire state with the reorganized extension service with-
in three years. Based on various factors including the road transport system,
diversity and intensity of cropping, farmer responsiveness, and extent of
irrigation, GOK has determined, in each area, the number of farm families that
each VEW 1/ could effectively visit. This varies between 400 and 800, with
a statewide average of just under 700 farm families. VEW would be supervised
1/   In Karnataka, VEW would be called Agricultural Assistants.  Otherwise,
the nomenclature is the same as used in this report.



- 70 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 6
and guided in the field by a more experienced Agricultural Extension Officer
(AEO). The 175 Assistant Directors of Agriculture (Asst. DA) would supervise
AEO and VEW in their areas. Taluks would be clustered in groups of three
(i.e. a subdivision) and the Asst. DA in one "central" taluk would be desig-
nated Asst. DA (Coordination). He would be responsible for both extension
operations in his own taluk and for ensuring that the SMS team stationed in
the central taluk serves all taluks in the cluster according to a fixed
schedule (see Chart 19243, Annex 3). The SMS team would consist of crop
production, crop protection and training specialists.
15.       The 19 Principal Agricultural Officers (PAO), in charge of exten-
sion operations at the district level, would be responsible for ensuring
effective taluk-level operations. They would have the technical support of a
team of three or four district-level SMS (normally one each in agronomy and
plant protection and other disciplines relevant to the needs of that district).
A separate officer would be designated to handle input supply logistics.
Statewide, five additional district-level SMS would be provided so that one
would be assigned (on a rotational basis) to each Rural Development Training
Center. In Dharwar district, because of its large size, there would be two
district-level SMS teams. The 19 districts are now grouped into 6 agricul-
tural divisions (zones). Two of the divisions are too large and would be
divided to create two additional divisions. Divisional JDA would supervise
the work of districts. A full-time Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA)
at Headquarters would be appointed to deal with all DOA matters not specific-
ally related to extension so that the Director of Agriculture could devote
himself virtually full-time to extension operations throughout the state.
A group of SMS already at headquarters would be reorganized to provide more
effective technical support. A JDA (Field Trials) would be appointed to
manage, supervise and analyze the program of field trials to be carried out
in cooperation with UAS (see Chart 19549, Annex 3).
16.       The following table summarizes the numbers of professional staff
required to implement this reform, the present numbers of budgeted positions
and the incremental number of staff to be financed under the project.
Present
Total        Number        Incremental
Required     of Staff       Requirement
VEW                             5,200         3,877            1,323
AEO                                750          750                0
SMS (Central Taluk)               180            80              100
Asst. DA                           175           60              115
SMS (District)                     85             0               85
Input Officer (Asst. DA)           19             4               15
PAO                                19            19                0
Divisional JDA                       8            6                2
SMS (HQ)                           20            20                0
JDA (FT)                             1            0                1
ADA (other)                          1            0                1



- 71 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 7
The project would also provide limited administrative support staff at all
levels. Table 5, Annex 3 provides details on the cost of this component.
Tables 8 and 9, Annex 3 show the detailed staff requirements, phased over
the project period.
17.       Housing and Other Civil Works.  The reorganized extension service
requires extension staff to make regular and frequent farmit visits. Since
housing in many rural areas in Karnataka is limited, the project would provide
for the construction of about 1,100 low-cost houses for VEW and 300 houses for
AEO. Combined with existing houses (1,855 VEW and 250 AEO), this would mean
government housing would be provided to about 57% of all VEW and 73% of AEO.
Construction of housing would start during the second year of the project.
During the first year, sites would be located, cost estimates and design
standards specified and detailed implementation plans prepared. New office
facilities would be provided for the new divisions and 10 districts where
present office facilities are inadequate. Existing offices would be augmented
in selected districts and at central taluks. The Public Works Department
would be responsible for construction, but maintenance would be the responsi-
bility of a special maintenance cell located within the Department of Agricul-
ture. Table 2, Annex 3 provides details of costs and phasing of civil works
to be constructed under the project.
18.       Vehicles.  The project would provide bicycle loans for VEW and motor-
cycle loans for all AEO, SMS and Asst. DA. One 4-wheel drive vehicle would be
provided for each central taluk in addition to the 58 to be transferred from
districts. This would provide two vehicles for most central taluks. The pro-
ject would also provide about 31 sedans, 28 four-wheel drive vehicles, and 10
vans at the district, divisional and headquarters levels and at Rural Develop-
ment Training Centers (RDTC). Table 3, Annex 3 provides details.
19.       Equipment and Furniture.  The project provides funds for audio-
visual aids to support extension operations as well as for office furniture
and equipment required for expanded extension activities. Table 3,
Annex 3 provides costing details.
20.       Training.  The project would support a variety of inservice and
preservice training activities. The most important of these are described
in para 32, Annex 4. During the fortnightly training session, about one hour
of each session would be devoted to matters requiring coordination with
other taluk-level agencies (e.g. input and credit suppliers). Newly recruited
VEW candidates would be given a 12-month practically oriented course on crop
production and extension methods during which VEW would learn how to grow
at least one of the major crops. Courses would be held at the five existing
RDTC to be strengthened under the project.
21.       Before introducing the T & V system in a given area, an orientation
course of about 3 or 4 days duration should be arranged in each district.
During this program, senior DOA staff would explain the new extension system
and its procedures in detail, assist district staff in assigning geographic
areas of responsibility of VEW, provide criteria for selection of contact
farmers, and outline major impact points to be covered initially. Cost
estimates of various training programs are shown in Table 4, Annex 3.



- 72 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 8
22.       Salaries and Incentives.  Karnataka's salaries for extension per-
sonnel are higher than those of many states, so it would not be possible to
increase pay without disrupting existing civil service pay scales. While
greater job satisfaction is expected with the increased professionalization
of the extension service, more tangible rewards may be necessary. Many of
the items provided under the project--housing, bicycle and motorcycle loans,
advanced increments for 25% of the staff, scholarships for higher study--would
give considerable incentive to field staff (see Table 5, Annex 3).
23.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would provide for the
establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation system specific-
ally designed to provide project management with up-to-date information on
the effectiveness of the extension system. The head of the monitoring and
evaluation unit would report to the Secretary of Agriculture. The methodology
used would be similar to that described in World Bank Staff Working Paper No.
272, "A System of Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension Projects."
This system would supplement direct personal supervision by each level of
project management (see paras 26 and 28). Cost estimates are shown in
Table 7, Annex 3.
24.       Operating Expenses.  In addition to costs already specified, DOA's
operating expenses would increase with the implementation of the project.
Of particular importance would be the availability of funds for purchase of
instructional materials, small samples of implements, seeds and pesticides
for training sessions and field trials. Adequate funds would also be pro-
vided for incremental vehicle operating costs and travel allowances. Table 6,
Annex 3 provides details of incremental operating expenditures.
Project Costs
25.       Costs for the five-year period are detailed in Tables 1-7 of
Annex 3. The total cost of the component is US$23.9 M, including contin-
gencies, duties and taxes.
C. Operation
26.       Extension Service.  Organization and operation of project management
would follow the guidelines set out in Agricultural Extension: The Training
and Visit System (World Bank, May 1977). The main feature in the reorganiza-
tion of the extension service is the establishment of a single line of command
from the Director of Agriculture to VEW. All field extension staff would
be under the direct administrative and technical control of DOA personnel.
Extension staff from all DOA special crop-oriented schemes would be merged
to form a single effective extension service and would work exclusively on
agricultural extension activities (Chart 19243, Annex 3 shows the organiza-
tional pattern).



- 73 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 9
27.       Linkages between Research and Extension.  The project would seek
to develop close and continuous working relationships between extension and
research personnel. SMS, as a routine part of their work, would be required
to make frequent visits to research stations serving their areas of work.
UAS Extension Guides would continue to operate as at present. Exchange of
staff between UAS and DOA would be expanded and made a regular part of career
progression in both institutions. The existing mechanisms by which extension
personnel and research workers jointly participate in developing extension
recommendations and planning, executing and analyzing field trials, would be
strengthened and made more regular.
28.       State Level Coordination.  Overall responsibility for implementa-
tion of the project would rest with the Secretary of Agriculture with respon-
sibility for day-to-day administration and control resting with the Director
of Agriculture. Construction of buildings would be carried out by the State
Public Works Department (PWD), using acceptable competitive bidding procedures.
A Project Coordination Committee would be established under the chairmanship
of the Secretary of Agriculture and would include representatives of UAS and
concerned government departments (Finance, Cooperation, Seeds, PWD, Irrigation
and others as necessary). The committee would meet at least once every season
to review progress of the project and ensure cooperation among the various
governmental agencies.



~ 74 -                                    ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Summary of Ptojeot Costs
(Rs. '000)
Foreign
Year                                                  Exchange
1           2              3           4            5           TOTAL         %      Cost
Civil Works (Table 2)
Houses                                      -          5,508.0       8,262.0    8,262.0       5,508.0      27,540.0        -      -
Offices                                   3,656.6      4,197.8       3,167.6       -            -          11,022.0        -      -
Subtotal                               3,656.6      9,705.8      11,429.6    8,262.0       5,508.0      38,562.0       -       -
Vehicles Equipment (Table 3)
Departmental vehicles                     2,825.0      1,640.0       2,040.0       -            -           6,505.0       25    1,626.2
Staff owned vehicles                      2,050        1,950.0       2,552.5       -            -           6,552.5       25    1,638.1
Equipment                                 2,542.8      1,419.2       1,636.0       -            -           5,598.0        40    2,239.2
Subtotal                               7,417.8      5,009.2       6,228.5       -            -          18,655.5       30    5,503.5
Training Costs (Table 4)                    3,704.6      4,178.9       4,743.9    4,649.5       2,087.0      19,363.9         -      -
Incremental Staff Salaries (Table 5)
Extension staff                           2,840.5      6,294.3      11,681.7   11,681.7    11,681.7        44,179.9         -      -
Incentive payment                           181.8        345.0         528.6       528.6        528.6       2,112.6         -      -
Support staff                             1,678.3      2,222 4         3,409.2    3,409.2     3,409.2      14,128.3         -      -
Subtotal                              4,700.6       8,861.7      15,619.5   15,619.5    15,619.5        60,420.8        -       -
Incremental Operating Costs (Table 6)
Operating expenses                          600.0      1,593.5       3,116.0    3,116.0       3,116.0      11,541.5       30    3,462.4
Travel allowance                            696.0      1,446.8       2,398.2    2,398.2       2,398.2       9,337.4        -       -
Vehicle operating costs                     606.0        895.0       1,275.0    1,275.0       1 275.0       5,326.0       30    1,597.8
Subtotal                               1,902.0      3,935.3       6,789.2    6,789.2       6,789.2      26,204.9       19    5,060.2
Monitoring and Evaluation (Table 7)
Staff                                       425.4        547.8         711.0       711.0        711.0       3,106.2        -       -
Equipment/Vehicles                          285,0         60.0          80.0       -            -             425.0      40/25   .112.2
Operating costs                             174.8        203.6         242.0       242.0        242.0       1,104.4       30       331.3
Subtotal                                 885.2        811.4       1,033.0       953.0        953.0       4,635.6        9      443.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                           22,266.8    32,502.3       45,843.7   36,273.2    30,956.7    167,842.7           6   11,007.2
Physical Contingencies                        857.0      1,154.8       1,475.7       997.2        731.4       5,216.1        6       342.0
Price Contingencies                         1,059.3      3,739.3       8,448.7    9,270.2    10,225.7        32,743,2        6    2,144.7
Total Contingencies                     1,916.3     4,894.1        9,924.4   10,267,4    10,957.1       37,959.3              2,486,7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         24,183.1    37,396.4       55,768.1   46,540.6    41,913.8    205,802.0           6   13,493.7



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Civil Works
(Rs.'000)
------------------------Y E A R ---------------------
Area  Rs./ Unit          1              2              3              4             5
Quantity   M      M2  Cost   (No.)  Cost   (No.)  Cost   (No.)  Cost   (No.)  Cost  (No.)  Cost   Total Cost
Housing a/
VEW             1100      35   515  18.0       -       -    (220)  3960.0 (330)  5940.0 (330)  5940.0 (220) 3960.0   19,800.0
AEO              300      50   515  25.8       -       -     (60)  1548.0  (90)  2322.0  (90)  2322.0  (60) 1548.0    7,740.0
Subtotal                                               -            5508.0         8262.0         8262.0        5508.0   27,540.0
Office Space
New Division       2     950   515  489        (1)   489.0   (1)   489.0             -              -              -          978.0
New District b/  10      900   515  464        (3)  1392.0   (4)  1856.0   (3)  1392.0              -              -       4,640.0
Expand District  10       150   515  77.2      (3)   231.6   (4)   308.8   (3)   231.6                             -          772.0
Expand Central
Taluk           60     150   515  77.2    (20)  1544.0  (20)  1544.0  (20)  1544.0                -              -       4,632.0
Subtotal                                            3656.6          4197.8         3167.6                                 11,022.0
Total (excluding
contingencies)                                       3656.6         9705.8        11429.6         8262.0         5508.0   38,562.0
Physical
contingencies (5%)                                    182.8          485.3          571.5          413.1          275.4    1,928.1
GRAND TOTAL                                             3839.4        10191.1        12001.1         8675.1         5783.4   40,490.1           x
a/   Housing provided as follows:               Total staff    Existing Quarters   New Construction          7. staff provided quarters
VEW        5200                1855                  1100                       577.
AEO          750                250                   300                       737.
b/   Dharwar District to be divided in two, hence total
District offices become 20.



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA                                             Table  3
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Vehicles and Equipment                               (Rs. '000)
- ------------ ---------------Y    E   A    R   ---------------------------
Unit          1                  2                   3                  4                  5           Total
Type     Quantity  Cost  (No.)   Cost           (No.)   Cost       (No.)   Cost       (No.)  Cost         (No.)   Cost    Cost
Vehicles
Departmental
- Heandrtm          Sedan        (6)       35.0     (6)   210.0                 -                  -                  -                   -        210,0
- Division_!/       Sedan        (5)       35.0     (5)    175.0                -                  -                  -                   -        175.0
- DistrictE/        Sedan       (20)      35.0      (6)   210.0         (6)   210.0        (8)   280.0                -                   -        700.0
4-WD        (28)      55.0      (9)   495.0        (7)   385.0       (12)   660.0                 -                  -        1540.0
- Central Taluk  4-WD           (60)      55.0    (21)  1155.0        (19)  1045.0        (20)  1100.0                -                  -        3300.0
- Training
Institute       Van         (10)       58.0    (10)   580.0                 -                  -                   _                  -         580.0
Subtotal                                                2825.0             1640.0             2040.0                -                           6505.0
Staff-owned
- VEW               Bi-       (4425)       0.3  (1000)   300.0  (1100)   330.0  (2325)   697.5                        -                   -       1327.5
cycle
- AEO               motor-    (750)       5.0    (250)  1250.0    (235)  1175.0   (265)  1325.0                       -                  -        3750.0
cycle
- SMS & TAO           "        (295)      5.0    (100)   500.0        (89)   445.0    (106)   530.0                   -                  -        1475.0
Subtotal                                                2050.0             1950.0             2552.5                -                  -        6552.5
office Equipment/
Furniture
- Taluk                        (115)      4.0      (37)   148.0       (32)    128.0       (46)    184.0               -                            460S40
'regular)
(Central)                    (60)       7.5     (21)   157.5        (19)    142.5      (20)   150.0                 -                  -         450.0
- District                      (20)      4.0       (6)      24.0       (6)     24.0       (8)     32.0               -                   -         60.0
- Division  (new)                (2)     20.0       (2)     40.0                -                  -                  -                   -         40.0
(existing)                  (6)     10.0       (6)     60.0                -                  -                  -                   _         60.0
- Headquarters                   (1)    100.0               50.0                50.0               _                  _                  -         100.0
- Training Center                (5)     20.0              100.0                -                  -                  -                  -         100.0
Subtotal                                                 579.5              344.5              366.0                -                  -        1290.0
Audio visual
Iauimmtt
-   Cenflal
Taluk-                          (60)    22.0       (21)   462.0       (19)   418.0        (20)   440.0                _                   -       1320.0
- District . e                    (20)    68.0         (6)   408.0        (6)   408.0        (8)   554.0                 -                  -        1370.0
- Division_/                       (8)      60.0       (8)   480.0                -                  -                   -                  -         480.0
- Headquarters-/ h                 (1)      15.0       (1)     15.0               --                                                        -          15.0
- Training Center-/                 (5)     65.0       (5)   325.0                -                  -                   -                  -         325.0
- Other Extension                                             273.3              248.7              276.0                -                  -         798.0
aids i/                                                                                                                                       _ -
Subtotal                                                1963.3             1074.7             1270.0                -                  -        4308.0
Total (excl. Contingencies)                               7417.8             5009.2              6228.5               -                   -      18655.5
Physical Contingencies (5%)
on equipment                                             370.9              250.5               311.4                                            932.8
GRAND TOTAL                                                  7788.7             5259.7             6539.9                _                  -       19588.3
a/   Vehicles for ADA, JDA and Headquarters SMS.
b/   One per division less existing vehicles.
c/   One sedan per PAO, one 4-WD vehicle per SMS team and per addl. DDA.
d/   Includes flannel boards and blackboards, megaphones, stencil duplicator,
slide viewers and projectors, overhead projector.
e/   Includes flannel boards, cassette tape recorder, megaphone, silk screen
unit, stencil duplicator with electronic scanner, cameras with flash,
slide viewers and projectors, overhead projector.
f/   Letter press and accessories, B/W photo processing lab.
g/   Flannel boards and blackboards, tape recorders, megaphone, silk screen unit,
composing typewriter, still cameras and flash, super 8 mm camera, black and
white laboratory, slide duplicator, movie projectors, slide projectors, over-
head projector, screens, rear projection screen.
h/   Flannel boards, blackboards, tape recorder, megaphone, stencil duplicator
with electronic scanner, super 8 mm projector, slide viewers and projectors,
overhead projector, screen, rear projection screen.
i/   Includes plastic binders for YEW materials, folding blackboard, small slide
viewer and small library and insect preservation box at central taluk (Ra.150
per VEW and 300 per central taluk).



_ 77 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Training Costs
(Rs. '000)
------------------------- Y E A R -----------------------____
Unit                     1                 2                 3                 4                 5           Total
Type of Training a/    Cost  Quantity  (No.)   Cost           (No.)   Cost      (No.)   Cost      (No.)   Cost       (No.)   Cost    Cost
A. In-Service Training         b
pre-season (VEW)         .07-/          (1780)   124.6  (3400)   238.0  (5200)   364.0  (5200)   364.0  (5200)   364.0   1,454.6
pre-season (Others)    .lob/              (337)     33.7   (653)      65.3  (1010)   101.0  (1010)   101.0  (1010)   101.0             402.0
short courses
(VEW/AEO)             .07             (1850)   129.5  (3439)   240.7  (5253)   367.7  (5950)   416.5  (5950)   416.5   1,570.9
short courses
(Others)             1.2                (87)   104.4   (168)   201.6    (260)   312.0    (260)   312.0   (260)   312.0   1,242.0
zonal workshop          .1               (130)      13.0    (260)     26.0   (400)    40.0   (400)    40.0   (400)          40.0       159.0
refresher train-
ing../                .35                         -                 _                                           (1250)   437.5      437.5
Subtotal                                       405.2             771.6            1184.7             1233.5            1671.0   5,266.0
B. Pre-Service TrainiLng
RDTC training-I                           (550)  3080.0    (550)  3080.0    (550)  3080.0    (575)  3080.0    -               -    12,320.0
C. Orientation Training
Subtotal, All Staff   .1                (2194)   219.4  (1993)   199.3  (2231)   223.1                     -                  -        641.b
D. Scholarships
VEw e/                 8.0                                   (10)    80.0      (20)   160.0      (30)   240.0       (40)   320.0       800.0
AEOs7SMS  f/          12.0                           -        (4)    48.0       (8)    96.0       (8)    96.0        (8)    96.0       336.0
Subtotal                                         -               128.0             256.0              336.0             416.0   1,136.0
Total                                            3704.6            4178,9             4743.8            4649.5            2087.0  19,363.8
Physical Contingencies (57.)                       185.2             209.0             237.2             232.5             104.4       968.3
GRAND TOTAL                                          3889.8            4387.9            4981.0            4882.0             2191.4  20,332.1
at See oara 32, Annex 5 for description of courses.
b/ Total for both seasons.
c/   At RDTC after training of new staff complete.
d/   Based on budget of RDTCSwhose facilities (with the exception
of the home science wing) will be used exclusively for training
new VEWs required by the project.
e/   One VEW per two Districts per year.
f/   2 AEOs and 2 SMS.



- 78 -
INDIA                                                   ANNEX 3
Table 5
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives
(Re. '000)
Annual
Unit                -----------------Y E A R ---------------------------
Cost              1                 2                 3                4                 5          Total
(Ra.'000)  (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    Cost
Incremental Extension Staff
Headquarters - ADA              28.0         (1)      28.0    (1)      28.0    (1)       28.0    (1)       28.0    (1)       28.0      140.0
- JDA            22.0          (1)     22.0    (1)       22.0    (1)       22.0    (1)      22.0    (1)       22.0      110.0
Division      - JDA             22.0         (2)      44.0    (2)      44.0    (2)       44.0    (2)       44.0    (2)      44.0       220.0
- TA             12.4          (8)     99.2    (8)       99.2    (8)       99.2    (8)      99.2    (8)       99.2      496.0
District      - Addl.PAO        21.0         (1)      21.0    (1)      21.0    (1)       21.0    (1)       21.0    (1)       21.0      105.0
- Asst.          16.7          (2)     33.4    (8)    133.6   (15)    250.5   (15)    250.5   (15)    250.5             918.5
- SMS a/         16.7         (29)    484.3   (53)    885.1   (85)   1419.5   (85)   1419.5   (85)   1419.5   5,627.9
- TA             12.4          (5)     62.0   (11)    136.4   (19)    235.6   (19)    235.6   (19)    235.6             905.2
Taluk         - AsUt  DA        16,7        (34)    567.8   (62)   1035.4  (115)   1920.5  (115)   1920.5  (115)   1920.5   7,364.7
- SMS            14.4        (39)    561.6   (66)    950.4  (100)   1440.0  (100)   1440.0  (100)   1440.0   5,832.0
- TA             12.4        (13)    161.2   (25)    310.0   (52)    644.8   (52)    644.8   (52)    644.8   2,405.6
Field Level  - VEW               4.2       (180)    756.0  (626)   2629.2 (1323)   5556.6 (1323)   5556.6 (1323)   5556.6  20.055.0
Subtotal                                       2840.5            6294.3          11681.7           11681.7           11681.7  44,179.9
Incentives b/_ VEW              0.24       (445)    106.8  (850)    204.0 (1300)    312.0 (1300)    312.0 (1300)    312.0   1,246.8
- AEO             0.60       (62)      37.2  (121)       72.6  (187)    112.2  (187)    112.2  (187)    112.2           446.4
- Others          0.90       (42)      37.8   (76)       68.4  (116)    104.4  (116)    104.4  (116)    104.4           419.4
Subtotal                                        181.8             345.0             528.6            528.6             528.6   2,112.6
Incremental Support Staff
Headquarter
-   Admin Officer               17.1         (3)      51.3    (3)      51.3    (3)       51.3    (3)       51.3    (3)      51.3      256.5
-   Manager                     11.8         (2)      23.6_   (2)      23.6    (2)       23.6    (2)       23.6    (2)       23.6      118.0
-   Superintendent              10.2         (5)      51.0    (5)      51.0    (5)       51.0    (5)       51.0    (5)      51.0      255.0
-   First Div. Clerk             8.1         (5)     40.5    (5)       40.5    (5)       40.5    (5)       40.5    (5)      40.5      202.5
-   Typist                       6.2         (4)      24.8    (4)      24.8    (4)       24.8    (4)       24.8    (4)      24.8      124.0
-   Driver                       5.2         (6)      31.2    (6)      31.2    (6)       31.2    (6)       31.2    (6)      31.2      156.0
-   Other                       4.0          (6)      24.0    (6)      24.0    (6)       24.0    (6)       24.0    (6)      24.0      120.0
Division
-   Admin Officer               17.4         (8)    136.8    (8)    136.8    (8)    136.8    (8)    136.8    (8)    136.8             684.0
-   Superintendent              10.2         (8)     81.6    (8)       81.6    (8)       81.6    (8)      81.6    (8)       81.6      408.0
-   FDC                          8.1         (8)     64.8    (8)       64.8    (8)       64.8    (8)      64.8    (8)       64.8      324.0
-   Typist                       6.2        (14)     86.8   (14)       86.8   (14)       86.8   (14)      86.8   (14)       86.8      434.0
-   Photo/Artist                10.2        (10)    102.0   (10)    102.0   (10)    102.0   (10)    102.0   (10)    102.0             510.0
-   print. staff c/              5.8        (24)    139.2   (24)    139.2   (24)    139.2   (24)    139.2   (24)    139.2             696.0
-   Other                        4.0         (7)      28.0    (7)      28.0    (7)       28.0    (7)      28.0    (7)       28.0      140.0
District
-   Admin Asst.                 12.7         (5)      63.5   (11)    139.7   (19)    241.3   (19)    241.3   (19)    241.3            927.1
-   Typist                       6.2         (6)      37.2   (12)      74.4   (20)    124.0   (20)    124.0   (20)    124.0           483.6
Taluk
-   FDC                         8.1         (24)    194.4   (33)    267.3   (87)    704.7   (87)    704.7   (87)    704.7   2,575.8
-   sDC d/                       5.8        (21)    121.8   (40)    232.0   (60)    348.0   (60)    348.0   (60)    348.0   1,397.8
-   Typist                      6.2         (43)    266.6   (67)    415.4  (128)    793.6  (128)    793.6  (128)    793.6   3,062.8
-   Driver                       5.2        (21)    109.2   (40)    208.0   (60)    312.0   (60)    312.0   (60)    312.0   1,253.2
Subtotal                                       1678.3           2222.4            3409.2            3409.2           3409.2  14,128.3
GRAND TOTAL                                          4700.6            8861.7           15619.5          15619.5           15619.5  60,420.8
a, Includes 5 extra SMS positions so that one SMS can be assigned to each Rural
Development Training Center on a rotational basis.
b/    Advanced Increment to be awarded to 25Z of the staff for good performance.
c/    One compositor, printer and binder per division.
U/    For Central Taluk only.



- 79 -
INDIA                                                   ANNEX 3
Table 6
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Incremental Operating Costs
(Rs.'OOO)
Annual                     -----------------------------Y E A R --------------------------
unit                    1                 2                 3                 4                 5          Total
cost  (Numbers) (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Cost    Cost
Operating Expenses &
Extension Materials
VEW/AEO                  0.4a/             (2030)   406.0  (3885)  1165.5  (5950)  2380.0  (5950)  2380.0  (5950)  2380.0   8,711.5
Other staff b            I1a_/              (108)    54.0   (208)   156.0   (320)   320.0   (320)   320.0   (320)   320.0   1,170.0
Other expenses C/                             (35)   140.0      (68)   272.0   (104)   416.0   (104)   416.0   (104)   416.0   1,660.0
Subtotal                                          600.0            1593.5            3116.0            3116.0            3116.0  11,541.5
Incremental Travel
Allowances & Expenses    0.44'                 (180)     72.0   (626)   250.4  (1323)   529.2  (1323)   529.2  (1323)   529.2   1,910.0
AEO/Asst, DA/SMS (T)   1.8e/                 (308)   554.4   (594)  1069.2   (925)  1665.0   (925)  1665.0   (925)  1665.0   6,618.6
District SMS             2.4                  (24)    57.6      (48)   115.2    (80)   192.0       (80)   192.0    (80)   192.0         748.8
Division                 3.6                   (2)      7.2      (2)     7.2       (2)     7.2      (2)      7.2       (2)     7.2       36.0
Headquarters             4.8                   (1)     4.8       (1)     4.8       (1)     4.8       (1)     4.8       (1)     4.8       24.0
Subtotal                                          696.0            1446.8            2398.2            2398.2           2398.2   9,337.4
Vehicle Operating
Costs
Central Taluk (diesel) 6.0/                  (21)   126.0      (40)   240.0    (60)   360.0       (60)   360.0    (60)   360.0   1,446.0
District (diesel)       10.I /                 (9)    90.0      (16)   160.0    (28)   280.0        (28)   280.0      (28)   280.0   1,090.0
(petrol)      17.5.2                (6)   105.0      (12)   210.0    (20)   350.0        (20)   350.0    (20)   350.0   1,365.0
Division (petrol)       21.02_/                (5)   105.0       (5)   105.0      (5)   105.0       (5)   105.0       (5)   105.0       525.0
Headquarters (petrol) 30.Oj.                   (6)   180.0       (6)   180.0       (6)   180.0       (6)   180.0       (6)   180.0      900.0
Subtotal                                          606.0             895.0            1275.0            1275.0            1275.0   5,326.0
Total (excl. contingencies)                         1902.0            3935.3            6789.2            6789.2            6789.2  26,204.9
Physical contingencies (5%/)                          95.1             196.8             339.5             339.5             339.5   1,310.4
GRAND TOTAL                                           1997.1            4132.1            7128.7            7128.7            7128.7  27,515.3
'   Includes printing of diaries, charts and instructional materials, samples of small
implements, seeds, pesticides for demonstrations during training and field trials,
poster paper and paints for simple visual aids. Taken at 50% of unit cost in year 1,
577 in year 2, 100% thereafter.
b/   Includes SMS, Central TAO, PAO.
c/   Rs.4,000 per Central Taluk, District and Divisional Office.
d/   Fixed TA at Rs.32.5 p.m.
e/   Mileage allowance at Rs.150 per month.
f/   15,000 km/year @ Rs.0.4/km.
g/   25,000 km/year @ Rs.0.4/km.
h/   25,000 km/year @ Rs.0.7/km.
i/   30,000 km/year @ Rs.0.7/km.
i1   42,500 km/year @ Rs.0.7/km.



- 80 -                                                       ANNEX 3
INDIA                                                       Table 7
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Monitoring and Evaluation
(Rs. '000)
-YEAR___________----------Y E A R----------------------------
Annual            1                 2                 3                 4                  5
Unit Cost  (No.)   Cost        (No.)   Cost      (No.)    Cost     (No.)   Cost      (No.)   Cost    Total Cost
Staff Salaries
Head, Evaluation
Unit a/             22.0       (1)      22.0      (1)      22.0    (1)       22.0     (1)      22.0     (1)      22.0        110.0
Head, Sample Survey        20.2       (1)      20.2      (1)     20.2      (1)      20.2     (1)      20.2     (1)      20.2        101.0
Agric. Econ.               16.7       (1)      16.7     (1)      16.7      (1)      16.7     (1)      16.7     (1)      16.7         83.5
Field Supervisors          14.4       (8)    115.2      (1)    115.2       (1)    115.2      (1)     115.2     (1)    115.2         576.0
Field Investigators        10.2      (12)    122.4   (24)    244.8   (40)    408.0   (40)    408.0    (40)    408.0              1,591.2
Statistical Clerks          8.1       (5)      40.5      (5)     40.5      (5)     40.5      (5)      40.5     (5)      40.5        202.5
Typists                     6.2       (2)      12.4     (2)      12.4      (2)      12.4     (2)      12.4     (2)      12.4         62.0
Head, Ad Hoc Studies-b/  20.2         (1)      20.2     (1)      20.2      (1)      20.2     (1)      20.2     (1)      20.2        101.0
Social Scientist           16.7       (1)      16.7     (1)      16.7      (1)      16.7     (1)      16.7     (1)      16.7         83.5
Research Officers          12.4       (2)      24.8     (2)      24.8      (2)      24.8     (2)      24.8     (2)      24.8        124.0
Statistical Clerk           8.1       (1)       8.1     (1)       8.1      (1)       8.1     (1)       8.1     (1)       8.1         40.5
Typist                      6.2       (1)       6.2     (1)       6.2      (1)       6.2     (1)       6.2     (1)       6.2         31.0
Subtotal                                  425.4              547.8             711.0             711.0              711.0    3,106.2
Vehicles & Equipment
Department Vehicles
-  Sedan                   35.0       (1)      35.0               -                  -                 -                 -           35.0
-  4-WD                    55.0       (2)    110.0                -                  -                 -                 -          110.0
Staff owned
-  motorcycles              5.0      (20)    100.0    (12)       60.0   (16)       80.0                -                 -          240.0
Furniture & equipment.C/                       40.0               _                  -                 -                 -          40.0
Subtotal                                   285.0              60.0              80.0               -                  -         425.0
Operating ExPenses
Travel allowance-/          2.4      (27)      64.8   (39)       93.6   (55)    132.0   (55)         132.0    (55)     132.0        554.4
Vehicle operating cost
-  petrol                  20.0       (1)      20.0     (1)      20.0      (1)     20.0      (1)      20.0     (1)      20.0        100.0
-  diesel                  15.0       (2)      30.0     (2)      30.0      (2)      30.0     (2)      30.0     (2)      30.0       150.0
Office expenses                                50.0              50.0               50.0              50.0              50.0       250.0
Consultants Fees b/        10.0                10.0              10.0               10.0              10.0              10.0         50.0
Subtotal                                   174.8             203.6             242.0             242.0              242.0    1,104.4
Total (less Contingencies)                    885.2             811.4            1033.0              953.0             953.0    4,635.6
Physical Contingencies e/                      23.0              13.2               16.1              12.1              12.1         76.5
GRAND TOTAL                                     908.2              824.6            1049.1             965.1             965.1    4,712.1
a/   Head of unit will draw on support from UAS social science faculty equivalent to one
man year in sample survey section and one man year in ad hoc studies.
b/   Selected studies to be contracted out to UAS.
C/   Includes desk and pocket calculators.
d/   Assumed at Rs.200 p.m. for all professional staff.
e/   5% on equipment and operating expenses only.



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff by District
AEOs -/
Required                                               Aest, DA
Farm/          b      VEWs.C/ New          and                      SMS    New                                   -
Families  VEWs-/    Avai-  VEWs            Avai-         SMS        Avai-  SMS                       Avai-  New
DISTRICT              ('000)    Required  lable  Required    lable             Required  lable  Required        Required  lable  Recruits
YEAR - I
1. Mysore               271.9       360      204        156          50            12        5         7            11        7         4
2. Dharwar              268.7       430      585       -155          60            15        5        10            17        5        12
3. Bijapur              247.5       360      314         46          50            12        4         8            11        6         5
4. Raichur              229.4        320      266        54          45            12        5         7             9        3         6
S. Gulbarga             212.7       310      231         79          45            12        5         7            10        3         7
Subtotal - YEAR I    1230.2        1780    1600         t80         250            63       24        39            58       24        34
YEAR - II
1. Shimoga              147.3       250       134       116          35             9        4         5             9        2         7
2. Hassan               166.7       210       154        56          30             9        4         5             8        2         6
3. Mandya               215.9       300      185        115          45             9        6         3             7        2         5
4. Belgaum              306.3       400       278       122          60            12        7         5            10        8         2
5. Bellary              125.0       210       234      - 24          30             9        4         5             8        6         2
6. Chitradurga          180.9       250       189        61          35             9        5         4             9        3         6
Subtotal - YEAR II   1142.1        1620    1174         446         235            57       30        27            51       23        28
YEAR - III
1. Bangalore            240.7       320      239         81          45             9        5         4            11        5         6
2. Kolar                209.4       270      159        111          40             9        3         6            11        2         9
3. Tunikur              285.4       350       160       190          50             9        3         6            10        2         8
4. Dakshina Kan.        129.9        270      178        92          40             9        3         6             8        2         6
5. Chickmagalore         92.1       160        91        69          25             6        3         3             7        0         7
6. Kodagu                36.8         60       38        22          10             3        3         0             3        0         3
7. Uttara Kan.          106.2       230       133        97          35             9        3         6            11        2         9
8. Bidar                 87.7        140      105        35          20             6        3         3             5        0         5
Subtotal - YEAR III  1188.2         1800    1103        697         265            60       26        34            66       13        53
GRAND TOTAL            3560.5      5200    3877        1323         750           180       80       100           175       60       115
a/   Source: 1971 Agricultural Census.
b    One per 400 to 800 farm families.
c/ Includes 1855 VEWs to be transferred from the Community
Development Department plus 2022 in the DOA.
d/ Sufficient staff available.



-82 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 9
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Requirement of Extension Staff by Year
Y E A R
1          2          3          4          5
VEW
Existing Staff             Yearly            1600       1174        1103         -          -
Cumulative       1600       2774        3877       3877       3877
New staff required         Yearly             180        446        697          -          -
Cumulative         180       626        1323       1323       1323
Training output            Yearly             550        550        550        575          -
Cumulative        550        1100       1650       2225       2225
AEO
Existing staff             Yearly             250        235        265          -          -
Cumulative        250        485         750        750        750
TALUKA
Existing Subdivision       Yearly              24         30          26         -          -
SMS a/                 Cumulative          24         54         80         80         80
New Subdivision SMS a/   Yearly                39         27          34         -          -
Cumulative          39         66        100        100        100
Existing Asst, DA          Yearly              24         23          13         -          -
Cumulative          24         47         60         60         60
New  Asst. DA              Yearly              34         28          53         -          -
Cumulative          34         62        115        115        115
DISTRICT LEVEL
New District SMS b/        Yearly              24         24         32          -          -
Cumulative          24         48         80         80         80
Existing District       c/ Yearly               3          0           1        -           -
H.Q.A. (Input Officer)-  Cumulative             3           3          4          4          4
New Dist. H.O.A.           Yearly                                     8          -          -
(Input Officer) c/         Cumulative
Existing Addl. DDA         Yearly                                     8         -           -
Cumulative                                 8          8          8
Existing PAO               Yearly               5          6          6         -           -
Cumulative           5         11         19         19         19
New PAO                    Cumulative           I          1           1          1          1
DIVISIONAL LEVEL
Existing JDA               Yearly               6         -          -          -          -
Cumulative          6          6           6          6          6
New JDA                    Yearly               2         -          -          -          -
Cumulative           2          2          2          2          2
STATE HEADQUARTERS
Existing DDA               Yearly              20         -          -          -          -
(SMS)                      Cumulative          20         20         20         20         20
New JDA (Adaptive          Yearly               1         -          -          -          -
Research)                  Cumulative           1          1          1          1          1
New Addl. DA               Yearly               1         -          -          -          -
(Routine work)             Cumulative           1          1          1          1          1
a/   Subdivision SMS - Agricultural Officer (AO)
b/   District SMS - Assistant Director of Agriculture  (Asst, DA)
c/   District HQA - Assistant Director of Agriculture  (Asst, DA)



- 83 -
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Karnataka Component
Extension Organization
IDIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
SENIORJD
SMS TEAM                                                       (Field Trials)
DIVISIONS (6/8)                 DL JDA
DISTRICTS (19120)          PRINCIPAL AGRICULTURAL                  ST
OF FICER                          (4
I
TALUKS
Central (60)                                    TALUK
Other (115)                              ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Total (1175)                               OF AGRICULTURE
(Coordination)
TALUK                                                                           TALUK
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                                               /             ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
OF AGRICULTURE                        0                                        OF AGRICULTURE
AEOEO AE50O                                                                                   AEO
VEW (5200)                                            VEW                                    VEW
8 Farmer Units/VEW
about 10 contact farmers/unit - 416,000 contact farmers
about 80/90 farm families/unit -3.56 million farm families
World Bank - 19243



- 84 -
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
KARNATAKA COMPONENT
LINKAGES BETWEEN EXTENSION & RESEARCH
Directorate                               State Level                          University of
of           -                     Technical      m __       __         Agricultural
Agriculture                           Committee                              Sciences
I '
Director                           I                                        tatutzory
of       _______                    ___ _______                          Research
Agriculture                       I                                          Council
Division                                            onaJD   L                Zo a 
[~~~~~ J - = -2
District                        l  District Leveo   B
PAO                                 Technical    _        _    _Feld ra
fSMSPCogrttemr
Tal uka            oo _  _
TAO      
(SMS)
AEO
World Bank -19549



- 85 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TRAINING
I. Introduction
1.        An objective of an agricultural extension service is to increase
agricultural productivity and thus farmer incomes. To do this, farmers need
the knowledge and skills for efficient management of their crops, livestock,
physical resources and the farm business as a whole. Essentials of success
include incentives for production, practical and evolving technology, and
availability of markets, inputs, credit and transportation.
2.        The responsibility of extension agents is to provide the farmer with
the knowledge to optimize agricultural potential, and to verify new technology
as it develops. A training program is thus essential both for farmers and
extension workers. In addition, practical training is essential for extension
workers since they must be able to demonstrate to farmers the actual techniques
of improved husbandry.
II. Present Situation
3.        Training for Indian field level extension workers engaged in agri-
cultural and community development was initiated in 1950-52 when 100 extension
(gramsevak) training centers were established throughout the country by GOI.
These centers were transferred to state governments in 1960. To date, 110,000
village level workers have received preservice training and a further 53,000
have obtained refresher training at 83 gramsevak and 25 gramsevika (female
extension workers) centers.
4.        Extension (graduate) officers from state Departments of Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry attend refresher courses at selected agricultural/veter-
inary colleges located countrywide. Training for 2,900 senior officers in
specialized fields and extension administration has been provided at various
research centers and at SAU since 1966. In addition, short term training
opportunities are offered at seminars and workshops organized by SAU and
GOI.
5.        To provide quality instruction in extension methods, GOI established
three Extension Education Institutes (EEI) at Nilokheri (Haryana), Anand
(Gujarat) and Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh). These are supervised by the Train-
ing Unit of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DAE) of GOI.



- 86 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        The DAE Training Unit (TU) provides leadership, guidance and finan-
cial assistance to state governments in planning, implementing, supervising,
coordinating and evaluating training programs designed for all levels of
extension workers. Other functions of the TU include the development of
farmer training centers, home science extension education, support for farmer
voluntary organizations, youth clubs and farmer exchanges with other countries.
III. The New Programs
7.        Training programs for extension workers and agricultural adminis-
trators must be strengthened to provide better dissemination of advice
as a means of overcoming production constraints and to assist farmers in the
adoption of improved husbandry practices. The Training and Visit system is
the basis for an improved extension service. This system depends on sus-
tained and regular training of extension workers and the transfer of appro-
priate messages to farmers through regular visits by VEW. The keystone is the
continuous practical training of VEW and AEO by SMS who are conversant with
the latest research results, active in the identification of local problems
and participants in local verification trials. Training in administration and
management is required for the higher levels of supervisory staff.
Training Strategy
8.        Since the extension service is to change farming practices, 1/
training of research-extension-farmer teams must be such that it imparts
the specific information needed. There is little merit in merely telling the
farmer "use fertilizer." The farmer needs to know how to carry out each task
in the fertilization process: (1) identification of crop nutrient needs, (2)
selection of the correct fertilizer, (3) calculation of the amount of fertil-
izer needed based upon field size and recommended rate of application, and
(4) application so as to ensure an even spread of fertilizer at the correct
time and depth. It is best if VEW actually work with the farmer in performing
these tasks. This implies that VEW must be able to perform all tasks and,
likewise, AEO and SMS who train VEW must also be able to perform all tasks.
9.        Furthermore, trainers of SMS (generally research workers and col-
lege professors) need to be acquainted with farming operations and how they
are best performed. This requires a change in present training methods from
a reliance on lectures to "learning by doing."
10.       The first step in the design of appropriate training programs is
an identification of the skills and knowledge required by the farmer to
1/   i.e. planting new varieties, improved crop stands, more efficient
use of fertilizer or irrigation water, to produce higher yields and
greater disposable income.



- 87 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 3
improve his production. The second step is to identify which of these will
be taught by VEW to the farmer. The order of operations and their seasonal
priority is then determined so that VEW can receive appropriate training at
the proper time. AEO, as supervisor of VEW, will also need training in what
is to be passed on to the farmer. The training AEO receive should be at a
higher level than that given to VEW so that AEO can help VEW in adaption of
this knowledge to meet local needs of farmers. AEO should also be able to
answer more advanced technical questions, and to identify practical problems.
For subdivisional and district SMS, even greater depth of knowledge is re-
quired so as to be able to instruct both AEO and VEW.
11.       Research workers will need to develop an ability in field identi-
fication of factors limiting farm production and in targeting research
programs to the practical resolution of these problems. This implies joint
farm visits between SMS and research workers; cooperation in the design,
execution and analysis of trials on farmers' fields; and the continuous
exchange of information and ideas between research, extension and farmers.
Both this project and NARP support these activities.
Tests and Demonstrations
12.       To provide a measure of the effectiveness of training programs and
to permit trainees to assess progress, short tests of knowledge and demon-
stration of skills would be integrated into the training programs. Precourse
testing would assist instructors in emphasizing those areas in which trainees
need the most assistance and would eliminate instruction in areas in which
trainees already possess adequate skill or knowledge. Pretesting helps the
trainee identify areas in which he needs assistance and thus provides some
motivation to learn. Testing may include identification of limiting factors
such as diseases, insects, nutritional deficiencies, or demonstrations by the
trainee of crop production techniques. Emphasis should be placed on the
practical rather than extensive testing of written knowledge. Comparison of
pre- and post-course tests will permit the trainee to identify what he has
learned and the instructor to evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of his
instruction.
Training for Extension Workers
13.       Fortnightly training of VEW and AEO by SMS would be a major feature
of the project. Additional and more specialized training would be provided
for each category of extension worker (VEW, AEO, SMS, subdivisional and
district officers and administrators). These are described below.
Village Extension Workers (VEW)
14.       Preservice Training.  VEW have generally completed secondary school
and are then usually given a two-year diploma course in agriculture at a train-
ing center. The content, practical training, and length of the diploma course
is somewhat variable, but in the past has generally included subjects related
to community development in addition to agriculture. These courses need more



- 88 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 4
emphasis on practical training in crop and livestock production. Several
states have already adopted shorter courses concentrating on agriculture.
15.       Orientation Training.  VEW, upon recruitment, may receive addi-
tional training in extension methodology and crop production.
16.       Inservice Training:  Regular.  A major feature of the T & V system
is training of VEW once a fortnight. This training is carried out by SMS and,
reviewed by AEO with his VEW on the alternate week. For sessions given by
SMS, the basic training unit would be a group of 30-40 VEW and AEO. They
would meet on a regular day, once in two weeks, to receive instruction from
subdivisional staff (SDAO and SMS), supported as necessary by district staff
and research workers. Most sessions would be held where there are means for
practical application of lessons taught--at a seed farm, an experimental sta-
tion, or at a training center. Training would cover actual farm situations
most likely to arise over the next two-week period. Time would be allowed for
VEW to carry out field operations and practice presentations to peer groups
playing the role of farmers. During training, VEW would have a chance to
raise and discuss problems which they had encountered. Block Development
Officers (BDO), representatives of cooperatives, banks and agro-service
centers, irrigation engineers and all other staff participating in agricul-
tural activities would be invited to attend the summary portion of these
sessions to ensure coordination of related activities. On the alternate
training day in each two week period, the VEW would meet with his AEO to
review current problems and practice skills. Preseason training. Prior to
each of the two main agricultural seasons (rabi and kharif) VEW would receive
a 2-3 day course covering the main seasonal crops and practices recommended
for them. These courses would be held at subdivisional or district level.
Representatives from headquarters, zonal and district levels, as well as
research workers would attend. These courses would initiate the extension
campaign for the coming season. Refresher courses, of about six weeks dura-
tion, would be given each year to some VEW when facilities are available.
Courses would be held at Extension Training Centers or SAU.
17.       Specialized training.  Some VEW would be given specialized training
in particular crops/disciplines which are of special importance in their
areas. For this purpose, specialized courses would be organized by the
extension service and/or state agricultural universities.
18.       Promotional training.  Training grants would be available to selected
individuals to enable them to obtain a degree and thus qualify for promotion
to AEO.
Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO)
19.       Preservice training.  AEO will generally be university graduates,
although a number may be recruited directly from experienced VEW. Degree
training is available at SAU to make AEO more useful to field service and
universities would be encouraged to include more practical field training
in their teaching program.



-89 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 5
20.       Orientation training.  Suitable instruction would be given in ex-
tension methods, the T & V system, and in appropriate specialized subjects
such as crop production, crop protection, etc.  Some states would appoint
new staff members to work for several months with a more experienced AEO
in order to gain experience.
21.       Inservice training.  AEO would attend all training sessions of
VEW given at block and subdivisional/district level. At the fortnightly
subdivision sessions they would be expected to help SMS in the training.
In addition to visiting each VEW in the field, AEO would conduct a review
training meeting for their VEW each fortnight. AEO would also be given
extra help and training by SMS to develop greater subject matter competency
so they can assist VEW in the identification of field problems. Regular
training. AEO would, in addition to the fortnightly sessions with SMS and
VEW, attend the 2-3 day preseason training sessions twice a year and special
meetings and training courses arranged at district level. Refresher training.
A number of existing AEO have had inadequate training. While the fortnightly
training sessions would help overcome these deficiencies, a somewhat longer
refresher training course would be helpful. In the initial years of the
project, however, the other preservice and inservice training programs
described above will necessarily have priority and efforts should be con-
centrated on these programs. Once these programs are going well, those AEO
most in need of further training would be identified and refresher training
would begin.
22.       Promotional training for AEO.  A small number of scholarships to
SAU would be provided each year for extension staff who show exceptional
talent and for whom such higher training would be necessary for further
promotion. A few AEO will be deputed every year for a two year M.Sc. course
at SAU.
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
23.       SMS play an important role in providing technical support and train-
ing to AEO and VEW. Few SMS are now equal to the assigned tasks. There would
be several levels of SMS: subdivisional; district; and state, each with
increasing levels of experience.
24.       Selection of SMS has been considered at the national level and the
following qualifications have been proposed for guidance of the state govern-
ments in recruitment of subdivisional specialists.
(i) Fresh Recruits. M.Sc. (Agri.) with specialization in
agronomy or other disciplines and preferably at least
two years of field experience in agriculture.
(ii) Deputations. Specialists with M.Sc. (Agri.) qualifications
with appropriate specialization may be taken on deputation
from the agricultural universities. Seconding of experts
from the universities would be useful also for exposing the
campus and research officers to field programs.



- 90 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 6
(iii) Promotion. Eligible for promotion to SMS would be persons
having basic qualification of B.Sc. (Agri.) with at least
five years experience in the Department of Agriculture.
District and state SMS would need more experience to provide
leadership for subdivisional SMS.
Subject Matter Specialists - Training
25.       Orientation.  Newly recruited SMS, particularly those belonging to
the promotion category, may require 2 to 3 months training in their special-
ization. This training would be arranged at the agricultural university or
a suitable research institute within the state.
26.       Inservice training:  Regular.  Each SMS would be responsible for
keeping up-to-date in his subject matter field. One-third of his time would
be spent with research workers and participating in applied research and
verification trials supplemented by reading and discussions with co-workers.
Preseason activities would take place in the workshop sessions where SMS and
research workers develop local recommendations for the next crops. These
aspects of SMS work and training would be coordinated at district and head-
quarters levels. Specialists working at various levels would also require
some specialized refresher training to keep them up-to-date with the latest
technological developments in the major crops of the area or in their field
of specialization. These are described below:
(a) Monthly Training. To provide effective training to VEW,
it is necessary that SMS keep up-to-date with the latest
recommendations. For this purpose, SMS will have 1-2
days training every month at the agricultural university/
research station located in their zone. The Director
General, ICAR, is being requested to issue necessary
instructions to SAU for assisting the DOA in organizing
these courses.
(b) Two-Week Regional Courses. SMS posted at subdivisional,
district and state level will be provided two week training
in production technology of specific crops to improve their
professional competence. The courses will be conducted at
selected institutes. A copy of the schedule of courses is
available from DAE.
(c) Six-Month Training in Important Crops. In order to build
up the professional competence of SMS, it is considered
important that they be given practical training in the
cultivation of important food crops on the IRRI pattern.
In view of the time constraint and the rapid demand for
trained SMS, it has been decided that a composite course
of 4-6 months, covering 2-3 important seasonal crops,
would be arranged during rabi and kharif every year. To



-91 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 7
start with, this training will be arranged at IARI, New Delhi
for the western, central and northern states and at AICRIP,
Hyderabad for the eastern and southern states. In these
courses, 20-25 SMS will be deputed for training on the pro-
duction technology of crops grown in the region.
(d) International Training. Practical training in crop produc-
tion is also available at IRRI (Philippines), CIMMYT (Mexico),
ICRISAT (India) and other locations. The international insti-
tutes may also participate in training arranged in India. In
the past, these training courses were not fully utilized. In
consultation with the Director General, ICAR, it has now been
decided that in the future DAE would arrange international
training of SMS and training staff from the states which have
adopted the T & V system.
27.       Deputation.  The exchange of DOA SMS with SAU is especially
desirable. The Director of Agricultural Extension in each state would meet
with the SAU to develop opportunities for exchange of personnel. During the
exchange, salary, promotion and incidental expenses would generally be the
responsibility of the parent organization.
28.       Promotional training.  A small number of training grants would be
available in each state for SMS pursuing a M.Sc. or Ph.D in India or for short,
practical training at international institutes. Young (below the age of 35)
and especially promising SMS would be given preference for these grants.
Administrative Personnel
29.       In addition to subject matter training, training in extension
methods, administration and management would be available to all supervisory
personnel (SDAO, DAO, Joint Directors, etc.) as well as SMS.
30.       Preservice and orientation training.  Personnel appointed to
supervisory positions would generally be experienced within the organization
before appointment. At the time of appointment, orientation to exact duties
and responsibilities would be provided by supervising officers.
31.       Inservice training.  Special training opportunities would be or-
ganized by the Director of Agriculture for staff at all supervisory levels.
Promotional, graduate, and international training/visits in other states
or countries may be provided to individuals undertaking additional program
responsibilities.
Summary of Training in State Programs
32.       The ADA (Extension) would be responsible for organizing the train-
ing of all staff at zonal and district levels and, with the assistance of
senior SMS, would also be responsible for organizing short courses for SMS
and other senior staff. The DAO, in consultation with the SDAO, district and



- 92 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 8
subdivisional SMS, would be responsible for arranging training at the sub-
divisional level. Thus, the following activities would be scheduled:
Activity          Where held   Frequency  Duration  Participants         Leader
Monthly
Preparation    Subdivision  12 x year  2 days    SDAO, SMS, AEO   DAO
Fortnightly       Subdivision  24 x year  1 day       VEW (AEO)          SDAO, SMS,
(about 30)         AEO
Preseason         Zonal or
Statewide    2 x year   3-5 days  DAO, SMS             ADA, SMS, SAU
District      2 x year   2-3 days  SDAO, AEO, SMS   DAO, SMS, SAU
Subdivision  2 x year   2-3 days  VEW                  SDAO, SMS
Special courses  All India    40 x year  2-3 weeks SMS & above           TU, ICAR,
for SMS         as needed                 to 6                           SAU
months
Statewide    As needed  1/2-3       SMS & above        SAU
months
Special courses  Statewide    As needed  1/2-3        AEO & above        SAU
for DAO, SDAO,                           months
AEO
Special courses  Statewide    As needed  1/2-3        VEW                SAU or Exten-
for VEW                                  months                        sion Training
Centers
Promotional for  Statewide    As needed  12-48        AEO & VEW          SAU
AEO and VEW                               months
Promotional       Statewide    As needed  6-48        SMS                SAU
for SMS                                  months
International    All-India    As needed  1/2-6        SMS & above        TU
training                                 months
Additional training courses may be arranged by the states to provide for
orientation, instruction in extension methods and other courses to satisfy
local needs.



- 93 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 9
IV. Training Functions of Directorate of Agricultural Extension
33.       The Training Unit (TU) of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension
would continue to be responsible for providing leadership and guidance to
states in planning, implementing, coordinating and evaluating training pro-
grams for extension workers. All state governments will identify an officer
to coordinate training activities with SAU and DAE. In addition to assisting
states, TU organizes All-India and regional training programs, particularly
for SMS and senior officers, at agricultural universities and central research
and training institutes. The duties and organization of TU are described
in para 2.16 and below.
34.       Training of extension personnel is a state responsibility, but at
GOI level TU would be the focal point among the states for the collection
and exchange of experiences on training. During the five years of the credit,
TU would concentrate its efforts in the following areas:
(a) Utilization of improved training strategy for extension
training in regular inservice programs and in special
training at agricultural universities, research institutes,
and EEI. Workshops to assure understanding and utilization
of training for behavioral objectives and testing of per-
formance would be conducted by TU. These workshops would
help local coordinators to prepare detailed course objec-
tives and learning and skill goals.
(b) TU would assist the states in developing state training plans
for SMS which would: (i) identify the state extension pro-
gram goals; (ii) set priorities; (iii) identify staffing needs
and responsibilities; (iv) specify education-training-experience
needed for staff; (v) provide a schedule to assist in orderly
staff development, and (vi) identify the role of training and
academic institutions in the development and presentation of
courses.
(c) Courses for SMS. In addition to training arranged within
individual states, the TU would organize 200 courses in
various crops/disciplines over the next five years for
district and subdivisional SMS (see para 26).
Number of courses to be organized
Year                 at All-India/Regional level
1978-79                            25
1970-80                            35
1980-81                            40
1981-82                            50
1982-83                            50
Total                             200



- 94 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 10
(d) TU would arrange for ICAR and other Indian institutions
participating in various training programs to develop
training materials and manuals.
(e) Evaluating Training Programs. The TU would continue to
evaluate centrally sponsored training programs, but more
emphasis would be placed upon the measurement of skills
and knowledge learned rather than the "development of
awareness."
(f) Visit to states by TU personnel would emphasize the
design of appropriate practical training courses. For
the first year, the emphasis should be on courses for SMS.
GOI would also assist states in the design and coordination
of training programs for subdivisional SMS, DAO, AEO and VEW.
(g) The TU would arrange for international assistance from
ICRISAT, IRRI, CIMMYT, and other organizations in the
conduct of training programs for international training
of extension workers.
Training Unit - Staff Requirements
35.       Incremental staff would be needed to strengthen the TU.  Rather
than appoint national SMS to aid the states, it is proposed that specialists
be seconded from ICAR, SAU or other departments within the Ministry of
Agriculture for three year assignments to help in planning and organizing
the subject matter courses at premier institutions in India. (See Table 3,
Annex 5). The following staff would be provided for strengthening the
training unit:
Joint Director (Training Unit - T & V)               I
Training Coordinator (Agronomy)                     2
Training Coordinator (Water Management)              I
Training Coordinator (Plant Protection)             1
Senior Extension Officers                           1
Assistant Extension Officers (Grade I)              4
In addition, services of experts in other crops/disciplines would be re-
quired from time to time to lend technical support to various training pro-
grams. These short-term consultants would be required for a duration of
15-30 days and would be paid Rs 150 per day as honorarium for this
assignment.



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Directorate of Agricultural Extension Component
Summary of Costs
(Rs. '000)
---------------------Year---_______________       -               Foreign Exchange
1          2           3           4            5      Total       %       Cost
Incremental
Salaries            386.4       386.4      386.4       386.4        386.4    1,932.0    -         -
Vehicles              190.0                                                       190.0   25         47.5
C'
Equipment             530.0       250.0                                           780.0   40        312.0
Operating Costs    1,324.7    1,649.7    1,729.7    1,959.7         1,889.7    8,553.5   30    2,566.0
Total               2,431.1    2,286.1    2,116.1    2,346.1        2,276.1   11,455.5   25    2,925.5
Contingencies
Physical @ 5%       102.2       103.3       94.8       106.3        102.8       509.4   25       127.0
Price                 117.0       258.0      381.0       589.0        742.0    2,087.0   30        626.0
Grand Total         2,650.3    2,647.4    2,591.9    3,041.4        3,120.9   14,051.9   26    3,678.5
(- dX



- 96-                                ANNEX 5
TABLE 2
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Directorate of Agricultural Extension
Field Extension Unit
(Rs. '000)
Number    Unit Cost    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total
STAFF SALARIES
Joint Extension Commissioner  (1)           30.0        30.0       30.0       30.0       30.0       30.0       150.0
Director-Field Extension        (1)         25.0        25.0       25.0       25.0       25.0       25.0       125.0
Joint Director                  (1)         21.6         21.6      21,6       21.6       21.6       21.6       108.0
Superintendent                  (1)        14.0         14.0       14.0       14.0       14.0      14.0         70.0
Support Staff a!               (12)         6.4         77.0       77.0       77.0       77.0      77.0        385.0
Subtotal                                            167.6      167.6      167.6     167.6      167.6        838.0
EQUIPMENT
Cars                            (4)        35,0        140,0                                                   140.0
Office Equipment                           20.0         20.0                                                    20.0
Subtotal                                            160.0                                                   160.0
OPERATING COSTS
Vehicles                        (4)        17.5          70.0      70.0       70.0       70.0       70.0       350.0
Office Expenses                            10.0         10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        50.0
Travel Budget b/                             1.0        48.0       68.0       68.0       68.0       68.0       320.0
Consultants cF                                         100.0      125.0      125.0      125.0      125.0        600.0
Subtotal                                            228.0      273.0      273.0     273.0      273.0      1,320.0
Total (excluding contingencies)                           555.6     440.6      440.6      440.6      440.6      2,318.0
Plus physical contingencies
(5% on equipment and
operating costs)                                    19.4       22.0       22.0       22.0       22.0       107.4
GRAND TOTAL - Field Extension
Unit                                       575.0     462.6      462.6      462.6      462.6      2,425.4
a/ stenographers, typists, assistants, etc.
b/ 6 trips per staff member (to Asst. Director level) p.a. at Rs. 1,000/- each. After Year 2 includes travel
for local consultants at 20 trips per year at Rs. 1,000/- per trip.
c/ 6-8 local consultants at Rs. 150 per day; 1 foreign consultant p.a.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
TABLE 3
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Directorate of Agricultural Extension
Training Unit
(Rs. '000)
Number    Unit Cost    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           Total
STAFF SALARIES
Joint Director -
Training Unit               (1)         21.6         21.6      21.6       21.6       21.6       21.6       108.0
Training Coordinators
Agronomy                    (2)         21.6         43.2      43.2       43.2       43.2       43.2       216.0
Water Management            (1)         21.6         21.6      21.6       21.6       21.6       21.6       108.0
Plant Protection            (1)         21.6         21.6      21.6       21.6       21.6       21.6       108.0
Sr. Extension Officer         (1)         18.0         18.0       18,0      18,0       18,0       18.0        90,0
Asst. Extension Officer
(Grade I)                   (4)        13.0         52.0       52.0       52.0       52.0       52.0       260.0
Subtotal                                          178.0      178.0      178,0      178,0      178,0       890.0
EQUIPMENT
Training Equipment a/        (18)         25.0        200.0     250.0                                        450.0
OPERATING COSTS
Travel Budget b/                                       12.0       12.0      12.0       12.0       12.0        60.0
Consultant Services c/                                 30.0      30.0       30.0       30.0       30.0       150.0
Training Courses
All-India/Reg. d/                                  400.0      560.0      640.0      800.0      800.0    3,200.0
Overseas Training e/                                  230.0     350.0      350.0      420.0      350.0    1,700.0
Subtotal                                          672.0      952.0   1,032.0   1,262.0   1,192.0    5,110.0
Total (excluding contingencies)                       1,050.0   1,380.0  1210,0   1,440,0   1,370.0    6,450.0
Plus physical contingencies
(5% on equipment and
operating costs)                                  43.6       60.1       51.6       63.1       59.6       278.0
GRAND TOTAL - Training Unit                           1,093.6   1,440.1   1,261.6   1,503.1   1,429.6    6,728.0
a/  Cameras (2); projectors - slide, 8 mm movie, overhead; cassette recorder; magaphone for issue to premier
training centers.
b/ Six trips per year for Joint Director and other personnel at Rs. 1,000/- trip.
c/  200 man days per year for preparation training courses and technical assistance.
d/  200 All-India/Regional training courses for SMS at Rs. 16,000 each.
e/  200 man months of overseas training for TU and states.



-98-                                                  ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Directorate of Agricultural Extension
Farm Information Unit
(Rs. '000)
Number    Unit Cost    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           Total
STAFF SALARIES
Joint Director (T & V)                     (1)         21.6        21.6       21.6       21.6       21.6       21.6      108.0
Deputy Director (T & V)                    (1)         19.2        19.2       19.2       19.2       19.2       19.2        96.0
Subtotal                                                         40.8       40.8       40.8       40.8      40.8       204.0
EQUIPMENT
Photographic Equipment a/                                          25.5                                                    25.5
Photo Processing
Equipment b/                                                    71.0                                                   71.0
Projectors c/                                                      64.5                                                    64.5
Audio Equipment d/                                                  19.0                                                   19.0
Printing Equipment e/                                             130.0                                                   130.0
Diesel Van                                                         50.0                                                    50.0
Subtotal                                                        360.0                                                  360.0
OPERATING COSTS
Vehicles                                                           17.5       17.5       17.5       17.5       17.5       87.5
Travel Budget f/                                                   12.0       12.0       12.0       12.0       12.0       60.0
Consultants' Services g/                                           95.2       95.2       95.2       95.2       95.2      476.0
Films and Photographic Supplies                                   150.0      150.0      150.0      150.0     150.0       750.0
Paper, Ink                                                        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0       500.0
Other Materials                                                    50.0       50.0       50.0       50.0      50.0       250.0
Subtotal                                                        424.7      424.7      424.7     424.7      424.7    2,123.5
Total (excluding contingencies)                                     825.5      465.5      465.5      465.5     465.5    2,687.5
Plus physical contingencies
(5% on equipment and
operating costs)                                                39.2       21.2       21.2      21.2       21.2       124.0
GRAND TOTAL - Farm Information Unit                                 864.7      486.7      486.7     486.7      486.7    2,811.5
a/ 35 mm cameras (2), 120 mm cameras (3), super 8 mm cameras (1), flash unit (1).
b/ color and black and white processing laboratory, slide duplicators.
c/ movie projectors (16 mm (4 nos.), super 8 mm (3 nos.), slide projectors of various types.
d/ cassette recorders (4), tape duplicator (1), megaphone.
e/ power driven letter press with accessories, composing typewriter (1), silk screen.
f/ six trips per year for Joint Director and Deputy Director at Rs. 1,000 per trip.
j/ both local and/or foreign consultant services.



- 99 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
DAE Component
Existing Staffing Pattern of Directorate of Extension
Extension Administration
Director                                         1
Deputy Director                                  4
Special Officer (Project)                        1
Assistant Administrative Officer                 1
Other Supporting Staff                         82
Extension Training
Director                                         1
Joint Director                                   4
Senior Extension Officer                        2
Senior Home Economist                           1
Extension Officers                              4
Regional Home Economists                        4
Other Supporting Staff                         64
Information-communication
Director                                        1
Joint Directors                                 1
Editors                                         4
Deputy Directors (F.I.A.)                       1
Exhibition Officer                              1
Horticulture Officer                            1
Offset Production Officer                       1
Chief Artist                                    1
Business Manager                                1
Other Supporting Staff                        188



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION COMPONENT
Organization Chart
Minister of Agriculture
I~z
|Secretary of Agriculture
I
Additional
Secretary
Jon  eretary and            Joint7Comissine
EtninCommissioner
Dep Dir.        Dp. Dir.         Dep. Dir. ctor                                           Dire. tr  DiF r                                                Dt. Dir
Adm.    Adm.            ~~~~~Ad m.     Asst. Adm.         Off.           D.Di.J.Drt.                            .DrFamW ens
ICoor.           (Per             (Farm            Off.            (Proj.)                              vatl.                            1g               Frog
Info.)
(Fm  If.)        F.If.             J.Dr.                                                         PIg           Monitring
il  Editing ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dm.&
lides                                                                                                   IEvaluation
World Bank - 19150



INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTERSION PROJECT
MAIN PER00RMANCE INDICATORS OP IDA-
FINANCED AORICI7LTORLAL EXTENSION PROJECTS
Are      oee                       B-nfitt            Con-tot             EnteRsion Staff Suober                     CCiil Works              TCop0.or.ntio              boolon...t           TetRinigi 51          -rJ&o-SCs-e 4/
Crp   an   Ado ..traiv   Dots         iro       ilErs      faroor       Bi Ir ub-div.    AOl                  OC        ffic-    ho.e.        Mtr.Bccl..rpndEr                                Co_reo      Handays             OSf
West Bengal Agrisrltoral                         ~~~~~~ha CM)  Blocs.   Sob-dir.                   N             (DOG)    DOE   SMS   ODAO    DMS                                                   Vehicles       Motorycle          8. 8          Roo_e                 Coc_ onc   roi
Eoteoion & Be....rcih (Ce 690R1M
Effective.jp-       Aupg. 30 '071                                    5                    40400                       17    SB       50     150   450       4000        90         iDOl         133             3450             1.85            380                 28             12
Corren  tLrgot   Jove 3 '38                                                               3.9               390       17     15       50      60   450      4000        DO           100          28              900              .34           ol3.3
Achie- -en   es of    Jane30 '78t.                           16                                                 250      17       0      50       2   312       3579         0            0          48                               .62           ebBl                                 0
ovr_ts    Oltra .eIed  for 347 hnaoe. ho t noch.r.nonie   ti-od
Deolpeent (C, 682-CS)
E       _ntne io  3877
At full do-olop-te  Dco  31'83                   4.5            30          60                 3.4                448       30     65'     60       90    700     5600        16         2316          120            3300             2.1                                  40           20
Cornttret ln   '78                                         60                                              30      45      38        0   700      3600        6h          bOO         124             0800                                                                4.0
AohiCtevenetsa   of   J-n  30'8                                13         62                                               30    01        4        0   737      5307                     0            43                0            0                  4      53
BaR-ke    Cebie tapprova   for inproenat.ti   obtained Feb. '78                 aBange SASS etto-  Sept. 1978
Madhyn pradesh Agrico1toraI
fotnos Eon& R B.sesr-h(Cr P12-IS)
Z/                   ~~~~~Eff-obv   Sept. 0 '77
As foBB d-rlopee..        Sept. 30 '83            7.0          Ii           50                 2.0                3 17             53      23      80     230     3970        52           804         108             2229            3.1                                 27.1            bB
Carn    agt    Sept.  '78                          5          12                                                     14        6     15      49       252         6           32          28              547             1.3             lb                                  1.3
Asicleeeee.....ts asf   Mas   1 15                                   12                                                     10        6     10      20        So                      0          24                 0                             13      6760
Re-ak.   tenle  m1isso   Ontob-r  1978 report   -aisfat-oy proV-o..
RaJas.t.han Agrb-l-ual
Eatn boo 6 Rees..rih iCr P37- IS)
~~3~~1 ~EffectIve-   Feb. 6  7
At Cr11 d-olopeet   M-rh 31 '03                   6.5           20          50                 2.9                320       ii     40      38    118      549     4000        53        1452           1i?             350              6.7                                26.351
Earrent targe       Feb. 28 '79                          28           00                                               4     280      50     60     310     23900         5          63           53              6800            3.6                                                I1.7
Aohierenen    as'. of      ..o 30 ' 78                        2B          50                  i88                           6     0             iB       310     1460          0           0           36                B                               5     112609.
tnR-ka    Training Center being reovted. tona m-..isso                   ibrI9P  reon    _alfcoyprgen
CItnosio   & Resarh (Co 728-1N3
iffeoltre    Sspt. 38 '77
At fo11 develo1p-et   Marc h 31 '883              2.1            9          27                  .                 193        9     18      42      60     301      0440         6         670          113             2135             2.0                                16 
C-preo  t_rge       Jun  30  289                                                                                              3       03     28     146      1267         3         131           33               35              .9             37                                  1.0
Achiensont as oR  June 30 'PA                                      If                  1.4                           9      0      lB     25      146     1343         0            9           14               15              .4            19        1245                        :
Remrk       SaactiE...d buildings under ray
Bihar Agrioub-trrI
Enieslo        4 Beeaph (Cr 761 IN)
Efo-tive    Mey 2 '78
At foil development   AprIl 30 '83                8.3         31           157                 7.6               810       62     155      157   228    1123       8980        36        0326          216             7886              233                                16.1           I
Current target   May '79                                 4            12                                              8      69       24     43     044      0890                                 43             1633              .850                                              0
Anhi--meta o.f   Sept. 30 '78                                4                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
Renooks    Projeot tvple....tatiu           .. lus toaring. VFW trana.ferrd tn 6 dietrirte.  Pull govrne- -            notn   gtveo.  ADA fEot-nso) appoioted.
ifThe Stats-ride West fi-oga  Agricultural  oErnB                 eRaroh Project  109773  cS-er  17 districts, Including the 6 districts  in ehich the T 4. V ny.ttnne   firt.t introd-nd in  1975 asa-up ..e.t
In tbs West Bongal Agi                  -1tra .Bnsapet Projeot (Credit 541-IS).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
21Th   Mdya Pradeeb .proe-taar-r   15 of 43 dlerrirte  in the State, but the iS coerd di striate   cout fun  nice not lop ort-t  -blhi  arAsC  Madhyr Pradeeh.
3i  The Rajastha   ProI     i ovr    l  the d!tariott  of rea-o le  agrii-lturl potential.
afProjm ceo    oe  nnol t             he  -te_  ta  serolos, hot agrtui.toral r..erc. rhthh  Is e-regth-ndu.denteeprjcs    S-n   th-r nooponots aecsof additinna.l staff, equip-so   and
horoing   eqrir-d bh.a... uf the  s-ga-ieattn  ofetnsin   Curren  -r ti-tv    targets and r-iu,  d.bureo-                             o r  a   f irtohb-  31, 1978.
5 Traiingdop   -o  ioolode   sgul-r  f o,ottghtly VEW6 traiin.l



ANNEX 6
TABLE 2
- 102 -
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
All Components
Implementation Schedule
PRE
PRE-BOARD         EFFECTIVE-    -------------------- Month after Effectiveness ---------------
ITEM                                  PRESENTATION      NESS            1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24
Civil Works
Site Selection
Prepare Tender
Start Construction
Vehicles & Equipment
Prepare Tenders for:
Purchase:
Vehicles
Equipment
Staff
Appoint ADA (EXT)
Appoint ZOA, SDAO
Selection/Appointment of SMS
Selection/Appointment of AEO
Transfer of VEW                     ___
Proj ect Monitoring
Selection of Staff
Appointment of Staff
Data Collection and Eyaluation
Training
Orientation
All Other
DAE
Appoint Joint Commissioner
Selection and Appointment
of Staff
Implementation of FEU
a/  Phased in Gujarat and Karnataka



-103 -                               ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Disbursements                  Semester                  Cumulative
1979  1st a/                    -                         -
2nd a                   0.5                         0.5
1980  1st                      2.0                        2.5
2nd                     2.0                        4.5
1981  1st                      2.0                        6.5
2nd                     2.5                        9.0
1982  1st                      3.0                       12.0
2nd                     2.5                       14.5
1983  1st                      2.5                       17.0
2nd                     2.5                       19.5
1984  1st b/                   2.5                       22.0
2nd -                   2.0                       24.0
1985  1st                      1.0                       25.0
a/ Estimated effectiveness date April 1, 1979.
bl Estimated closing date September 30, 1984.



- 104 -                      ANNEX 7
INDIA
COMPOSITE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Reference Material Available in the Project
File on file at South Asia Regional
Information Center-Document No. 143,544
GUJARAT
B-1 Appraisal of the Gujarat Agricultural Development Project, Agriculture,
Forest and Cooperation Department, Government of Gujarat. Gandhinagar
Mimeo. (Revised March 30, 1978).
HARYANA
B-2 Haryana Agricultural Extension Project, Department of Agriculture,
Haryana, Chandigarh Mimeo (January 1978 with revisions).
KARNATKA
B-3 Project for Agricultural Extension and Research in Karnataka, Project
Formulation Division, Planning Department, Karnataka Government
Secretariat. Bangalore Mimeo (December 1977 with revisions).
MAHARASHTRA
B-4 Project for Strengthening of Agricultural Extension Organizaton,
Maharashtra State Department of Agriculture Mimeo (January 6, 1978).
GOI
B-5 National Extension Projects: Central Directorate of Extension,
Directorate of Agricultural Extension, Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation, typewritten with revisions (April 6, 1978).
WORLD BANK
B-6 Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System, Daniel Benor
and James Q. Harrison. Printed World Bank (May 1977).
B-7 A System for Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension Projects,
Michael M. Cernea and Benjamin J. Tepping. Printed World Bank Staff
Working Paper 272 (December 1977).



IBRD 13649R1
J  \.  U S S.R  _.J        uS S R        I                                                                                                                      OCTOBER 1978
I .f .  >xQ                                                                                               INDIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICE PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN                   i                                                                                                   NEW PROJECTS
6'           {. '   -,    /                                                                            EXISTING PROJECTS
*  - I   S,,a                    ,                                                       STATE CAPITALS
.                 #   JAMMU cnd KASHMIRj                                                             o      NATIONAL CAPITAL
1j                                                    '1 . "',                                                   DISTRICT AND/OR PROJECT BOOUNDARIES
_____STATE BOUNDARIES
FIHVIMACHALI                                                            -. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.                     o' C PRADESH
 10     200       3?0      4W)                  309
Obo  PUNJAB                                                                             SOMy   \  '   20n0  3T0   4y0 50
P A  K I S T A  N                                                                      N  t   ilmes   
/           DEL~~~~~~~EHI                              \                                           <                tntr, g 
PAKISTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IKMBHTNC
UTTAR PRADESH   .    >                                 5   (/1 B
t .N~NNO,. .                                                                                        R M    A
-   -     tz nMAHARASHTRA 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H   ..... - Wd? ..
\     TAMIL NADU                                     . o ofB o/                         .                                   T
0            .   ., tALA   >    /    w                                                                               :                      B%~v/    f  Bngo
'-'-' --( --N4 --                            oF\'   '     '                                                                        I    ',
7QNS ,.,+                                                                        i.b   



