CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 862 IN
Project Agreement
(Composite Agricultural Extension Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF HARYANA
Dated February 16, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 862 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
STATE OF HARYANA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Haryana).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies    equivalent   to  twenty-fiv4 million      dollars
($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Haryana
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Haryana, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Haryana shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
as said Part applies to Haryana with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿- 2 -
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governel by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Haryana undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Haryana to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Haryana
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Haryana shall furnish to the Association
through DAE, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for its Part of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Haryana: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of its Part of the
Project (including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in said Part of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in said Part of the Project and to
examine the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association through DAE, at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the said Part of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds, and all such other information as the Borrower, through
DAE, shall reasonably request in order to enable the Borrower to
carry out its obligations under Section 3.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
(c) Promptly after completion of its Part of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date


﻿-3-
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Association and Haryana, Haryana shall prepare and furnish to
the Association, through DAE, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the said Part of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Association and Haryana of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) Haryana shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of its Part of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Haryana shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Haryana of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Haryana shall: (a) establish procedures,
satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out effective
monitoring and evaluation of its Part of the Project, and carry
out such monitoring and evaluation in accordance with said
procedures; and (b) prepare and furnish to the Association,
through DAE, annual summaries of the results of such monitoring
and evaluation.
Section 2.07. Haryana shall ensure that: (a) all extension
positions at the village level transferred to DOA and the incre-
mental staff positions assigned to DOA under the Project shall be
used exclusively for agricultural extension and retained by
DOA during project execution; and (b) staff assigned to carry out
extension work under the Project shall not be adversely affected,
in respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits and
promotional prospects, by reason alone of such assignment.
Section 2.08. Haryana shall ensure that village extension
workers and agricultural extension officers will live and have
their offices in or near the areas assigned for their operations
and, to this end, shall (i) provide said workers and officers with
such low cost housing or rental allowances as may be necessary for


﻿-4-
the above purpose, and (ii) authorize payments of office allow-
ances to said workers and officers only when such offices are in
or adjacent to their houses.
Section 2.09. Haryana shall:
(a) furnish to the Association, through DAE, at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the progress in locating sites for the houses
and offices to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
and
(b) by June 30, 1979, or such later date as the Association
may determine, establish the location, training objectives,
course outlines and syllabus, acceptable to DAE and the Associa-
tion, for the Extension Training Institute.
Section 2.10. In order to ensure the mobility of staff
engaged in extension work under the Project, Haryana undertakes to
make available:
(a) to all eligible staff who are in need of credit for the
purchase of motorcycles or bicycles, such credit on terms and
conditions designed to provide incentive for the purchase of
said motorcycles or bicycles; and
(b) such financial incentive, including appropriate travel-
ling allowances, as required to encourage optimum use of the
motorcycles and bicycles purchased pursuant to paragraph (a)
above.
Section 2.11. For the purpose of facilitating more effective
coordination between agricultural research and extension, Haryana
shall: (i) by November 30, 1979, review and, where appropriate,
strengthen arrangements for close cooperation between DOA and SAU;
and (ii) thereafter, from time to time as the Association shall
reasonably request, discuss with the Association the adequacy of
said arrangements.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Haryana undertakes that DOA will maintain
separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of DOA in respect of the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.02. Haryana undertakes that DOA will: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements in respect of the Project
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
through DAE, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association, through DAE, such other
information concerning said accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Haryana thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Haryana of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement beLween


﻿-6-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Haryana:
Secretary to the Government of Haryana
Agriculture Department
Civil Secretariat
Chandigarh
India
Cable address:
AGRISEC-HARYANA
Chandigarh, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Haryana may be taken or executed by
the Secretary to the Government of Haryana, Agriculture Department
or such other person or persons as Haryana shall designate in
writing, and Haryana shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF HARYANA
By Is/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


