CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 862 IN
Project Agreement
(Composite Agricultural Extension Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF GUJARAT
Dated February 16, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 862 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
STATE OF GUJARAT, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Gujarat).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Gujarat agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS Gujarat, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "District Agricultural Officer" means the officer in
each district responsible for execution of agricultural develop-
ment programs in such district.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Gujarat shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement as
said Part applies to Gujarat with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Developm.nt Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Gujarat undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Gujarat to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Gujarat
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Gujarat shall furnish to the Association
through DAE, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for its Part of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Gujarat: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of its Part of the
Project (including its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in said Part of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in said Part of the Project and to
examine the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association through DAE, at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the said Part of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expt iditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out 'f such
proceeds, and all such other information as the Borrower, through
DAE, shall reasonably request in order to enable the Borrower to
carry out its obligations under Section 3.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Promptly after completion of its Part of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Association and Gujarat, Gujarat shall prepare and furnish to
the Association, through DAE, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the said Part of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Association and Gujarat of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) Gujarat shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of its Part of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Gujarat shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Gujarat of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Gujarat shall: (a) establish procedures,
satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out effective
monitoring and evaluation of its Part of the Project, and carry
out such monitoring and evaluation in accordance with said pro-
cedures; and (b) prepare and furnish to the Association, through
DAE, annual summaries of the results of such monitoring and
evaluation.
Section 2.07. Gujarat shall ensure that:
(a) all extension positions assigned to the administrative
control of the District Agricultural Officer or DOA under this
Project shall be used exclusively for agricultural extension and
retained under administrative control of the District Agricultural
Officer or DOA, respectively, during Project execution; and
(b) staff assigned to carry out extension work under the
Project shall not be adversely affected, in respect of their
entitlement to emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects, by
reason alone of such assignment.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. Gujarat shall ensure that village extension
workers and agricultural extension officers will live in or near
the areas assigned for their operations and, to this end, shall
provide said workers and officers with such low cost housing or
rental allowances as may be necessary for such purpose.
Section 2.09. Gujarat shall furnish to the Association,
through DAE, at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the progress in
locating sites for the houses and offices to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.10. In order to ensure the mobility of staff
engaged in extension work under the Project, Gujarat undertakes to
make available:
(a) to all eligible staff who are in need of credit for the
purchase of motorcycles or bicycles, such credit on terms and
conditions designed to provide incentive for the purchase of
said motorcycles or bicycles; and
(b) such financial incentive, including appropriate travel-
ling allowances, as required to encourage optimum use of the
motorcycles and bicycles purchased pursuant to paragraph (a)
above.
Section 2.11. For the purpose of faciiitating more effective
coordination between agricultural research and extension, Gujarat
shall: (i) by November 30, 1979, review and, where appropriate,
strengthen arrangements for close cooperation between DOA and SAU
and (ii) thereafter, from time to time as the Association shall
reasonably request, discuss with the Association the adequacy of
said arrangements.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Gujarat undertakes that DOA will maintain
separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of DOA in respect of the Project.
Section 3.02. Gujarat undertakes that DOA will: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements in respect of the Project


﻿-5-
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
through DAE, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association, through DAE, such other
information concerning said accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Gujarat thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Gujarat of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-6-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Gujarat:
Secretary to the Government of Gujarat
Agriculture, Forests and
Co-operation Department
Sachivalaya
Gandhinagar
Gujarat
India
Cable address:
AGRICOPSEC
Gandhinagar
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Gujarat may be taken or executed by
the Secretary to the Government of Gujarat, Department of Agricul-
ture or such other person or persons as Gujarat shall designate in
writing, and Gujarat shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF GUJARAT
By /s/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


