Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4115 
Operation Name 
Fifth Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);Banking (25%);General 
industry and trade sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P110191 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
August 27, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 13, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 25, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Indonesia has continued its remarkably stable transition from a centralized authoritarian regime 
to a decentralized democratic polity. In 
the decade since the crisis, Indonesia’s political system 
has undergone a profound transformation, from a centralized authoritarian regime to a 
decentralized democratic polity. Constitutional reforms mandating direct elections to all levels of 
government have created greater electoral accountability. A “big bang” decentralization in 2001 
has devolved substantial funds and authority to local governments and new forms of 
decentralized participation in policymaking have been created. The transition was initially 
tumultuous, but, particularly in the last five years, the political stability and the broader embrace 
of the democratic process that these changes have engendered have been critical to supporting 
Indonesia’s economic recovery and calming separatist sentiments. 
There, however, has been less progress on other important fronts. Higher levels of growth have 
not translated, to the extent hoped for, into greater poverty reduction. A large percentage of the 
population remains vulnerable to poverty. Indonesia lags far behind its more prosperous 
neighbors in producing higher value-added non-agricultural jobs. Employment growth has failed 
to match population growth since the crisis and job creation in the formal sector has been 
especially sluggish. Because of geographic and income-related disparities, and the poor quality 
of health, water and sanitation and education service delivery at the local level, Indonesia’s 
performance in terms of human development outcomes has been quite uneven over the last 
decade despite significant increases in public expenditures. There is also considerable evidence 
as well that Indonesia’s environmental quality is deteriorating and its natural resources are being 
unsustainably depleted.  
If Indonesia is able to build on the robust foundation of macroeconomic and political stability it 
has established thus far and accelerate growth while ensuring shared and sustainable growth, 
Indonesia’s public institutions will need reforming and modernizing if the country is to address 
this challenge.  Only then will Indonesia achieve its potential to become a dynamic, competitive, 
and inclusive middle-income country.   
 
The focus of the DPL program over the last five years, and the emphasis of the Country 
Partnership Strategy going forward, has been and to support Indonesia’s efforts to successfully 
navigate this complicated governance transition and enhance government effectiveness for the 
Page  2
attainment of sustainable and shared economic growth. Through the DPL program as well as 
other channels, the WBG has partnered with “reform champions” within the Government to 
provide an impetus for decision makers to initiate and operationalize fundamental institutional 
reforms.  Lastly, the DPL program has significantly improved the predictability of development 
financing while reducing its average cost, it has also reduced transaction costs by leveraging the 
support of other donors (Government of Japan and the ADB) to support a common policy 
framework and dialogue. 
 
The Fifth Development Policy Loan (DPL5) provides the Bank and development partners with a 
vehicle for addressing many of these policy issues. The DPL5 program will continue to support 
the Government’s reform agenda in the key areas of (i) investment climate, (ii) public financial 
management and anti-corruption, (iii) service delivery, and given the Government growing 
concern, a newly added pillar on (iv) climate change. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the Government achieve its medium-term growth 
and poverty reduction objectives. The proposed DPL5 builds on and reinforces the support 
provided by DPLs 1 through 4 to the Government of Indonesia’s reform efforts in the following 
objectives: (i) improve the investment climate; (ii) enhance public financial management and 
governance; and (iii) improve service delivery to the poor and, (iv) mitigate and adapt to climate 
change. 
The results framework of the DPL5 will focus on i) improving the investment climate through 
tax simplification, tariff harmonization, implementing the National Single Window, rationalizing 
SME financing and financial strengthening; ii) enhancing public financial management through 
further progress on implementing the Treasury Single Account regime, operationalizing the new 
procurement agency, and expanding civil service reform; iii) improve service delivery by 
institutionalizing the government system for program assessment, establishing a uniform 
poverty-targeting database, and by supporting improvements to community-driven development 
and teacher performance; iv) support initial efforts by the government as it begins to address 
climate change more systematically. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
This Development Policy Loan for US$700 million is the fifth in a series, but the first proposed 
under the FY09-FY12 Country Partnership Strategy that has been prepared and is scheduled for 
Board submission in September.  The four earlier DPLs from 2004 to 2007 constituted a program 
of annual, single tranche loans anchored to the previous CAS.  Though DPL5 represents the start 
of a new programmatic series, as envisioned in the new CPS, in substantive terms it is a 
continuation of the earlier series. As in the other DPLs, it is expected that the Asian 
Development Bank and the Government of Japan will provide parallel financing. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
DPL5 supports key areas of the Government’s medium-term reform agenda, including the investment 
climate, public financial management and governance, and service delivery to the poor.  In the new 
policy area of climate change, the proposed triggers are expected to have positive impacts on addressing 
the environment with the aim of achieving greater sustainable development.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  3
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
700 
 Total 
700 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Shubham Chaudhuri 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5781+3076 / 62-21-5299-3076 
Fax: 62-21-5299-3000 
Email: schaudhuri@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD)
 
