Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4312 
Operation Name 
Fifth Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);Banking (25%);General 
industry and trade sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P110191 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 11, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 21, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
December 9, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Indonesia has continued to recover and strengthen from the economic and political shocks and 
natural catastrophes of the past decade. In the first half of 2008 its economy accelerated to the 
fastest growth rate since the crisis of the late 1990s, despite unstable global financial markets and 
a
slowing world economy. The World Bank 
and IMF’s most recent assessments were that 
Indonesia would weather a moderate global slowdown relatively well, due to its size, robust 
domestic demand, the diversity of exports and export destinations, as well as a record of prudent 
fiscal management.  In addition, Indonesia’s political system is maturing into one of the most 
stable and vibrant democracies in the region. 
The turmoil in global markets since mid-September has, not surprisingly, adversely affected 
Indonesia’s macroeconomic outlook and introduced considerable uncertainty. With the 
emergence of a consensus that the advanced economies are headed towards a prolonged 
recession, a much more pronounced growth slowdown in Indonesia in 2009 is expected as well.  
Indonesian financial markets have also been significantly affected by the global turmoil and the 
risk of a sudden stop type of financial crisis has also become more pronounced. Indonesia has a 
relatively open capital account, significant foreign presence in its stock and bond markets, and 
the legacy of the 1998 crisis (which left Indonesian investors sensitive to exchange rate 
movements and prone to capital flight) makes Indonesia is more exposed to “externally mobile 
capital” than other countries in East Asia.  
In the face of these increased risks Indonesia’s economic management team has moved 
proactively. Precautionary measures have been taken to anticipate problems including providing 
the necessary legal authority for the Government to intervene in financial institutions, to raise the 
deposit insurance limit, and reduce budget financing pressures as well as more immediate steps 
to provide needed liquidity in both dollar and rupiah markets. These measures, coming on top of 
Indonesia’s record of prudent fiscal management, recent macroeconomic performance, and the 
government’s ongoing commitment to the longer term institutional reform agenda, provide the 
requisite stability to warrant continued support for Indonesia’s structural and institutional reform 
efforts through DPL-5. 
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the Government achieve its medium-term growth 
and poverty reduction objectives by (i) improving the investment climate, (ii) strengthening 
public financial management and (iii) enhancing service delivery and poverty alleviation efforts.   
 
Specifically, the proposed DPL 5 addresses these objectives through several prior actions and 
benchmarks that:  i) improve the investment climate through tax simplification, tariff 
harmonization, implementing the National Single Window, rationalizing SME financing and 
financial strengthening; ii) enhance public financial management through further progress on 
implementing the Treasury Single Account regime, operationalizing the new procurement 
agency, and expanding civil service reform; and  iii) improve service delivery by 
institutionalizing the government system for program assessment, establishing a uniform 
poverty-targeting database, and by supporting improvements to community-driven development 
and teacher performance. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
DPL 5 is the first of an envisioned new programmatic series of three annual single tranche loans 
under the new Country Partnership Strategy for 2009-2012.  However, in substantive terms, it is 
a
continuation of DPLs 1 through 4 --the programmatic series of annual single-tranche 
operations from 2004 to 2007. The focus of the DPL program over the last five years, and also 
the emphasis of the Country Partnership Strategy, is 
to support Indonesia’s efforts to enhance 
government effectiveness for the attainment of sustainable and shared economic growth.  
 
Through the DPL program as well as other channels, the WBG has partnered with “reform 
champions” within the Government to provide an impetus for decision makers to initiate and 
operationalize fundamental institutional reforms.  The DPL helps the Government implement 
key elements of its medium-term strategy, by translating broad objectives into a set of high-
priority policy actions. Simultaneously, the DPL has created a platform for an effective and 
consistent policy dialogue and engagement between the government and development partners, 
namely the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Government of Japan. The 
DPL operation provides the Government with a reliable source of financing to meet its gross 
financing needs and reduces the average cost of borrowing while also extending the 
Government’s debt maturity.   
 
4. Financing 
DPL5  is a single-tranche IBRD loan for US$750 million that will be made available upon loan 
effectiveness, as policy actions supported by the loan/credit will have been completed prior to 
Board presentation.  The Government has confirmed that the proposed IBRD loan will be a 
Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) payable in 24.5 years, including 9 years of grace at six month LIBOR 
plus the fixed spread for fixed-spread loans in US Dollars.  
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The loan disbursement will follow the standard Bank procedures for Development Policy 
Lending. The loan amount will be disbursed into a foreign currency account of the Borrower at 
Bank Indonesia that forms part of Indonesia’s official foreign exchange reserves. The equivalent 
Page  3
Rupiah amount will immediately be transferred to the General Operational Treasury account of 
the Borrower that is used to finance budget expenditures, as the loan is intended to be used to 
support the general Government budget.  The Borrower will provide to the Bank a written 
confirmation that this transfer has been completed, and provide to the Bank any other relevant 
information relating to these matters that the Bank may reasonably request. Disbursements of the 
loan will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements have to be 
satisfied, except that the Borrower is required to comply with the standard negative list of 
excluded items that may not be financed with Bank loan proceeds. 
 
Ongoing discussion with the Government on the overall reform program being supported by the 
DPL series will form the basis for reporting on substantive policy issues. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The DPL program is to expected to achieve inroads into improving the investment climate which 
is seen as critical to accelerating growth.  It will also strengthen public financial management 
which is essential for enhancing government effectiveness in a decentralized and democratic 
Indonesia.  Additional, the DPL program aims to enhance service delivery and poverty 
alleviation efforts to help Indonesia bring about more broad-based improvements in welfare for 
its citizens.  
 
On the risk sides, there are both key external and to a lesser extent internal risks.  On the external 
front, global financial contagion risks leaves Indonesia vulnerable to disruption induced by 
sudden reversals in capital flows and capital flight because of the global liquidity crisis. The 
government, however, has taken a number of precautionary and proactive measures to reduce the 
likelihood of such disruption and to alleviate financing constraints if liquidity conditions do not 
ease. On the domestic front, Presidential elections take place next year and this could make the 
reform agenda sensitive to coalition politics, and tensions between partners may grow as the 
election nears. With regard to the risk on the reforms supported by the DPL, although investment 
climate reforms might become more susceptible to protectionist sentiment, reforms in public 
financial management and public service delivery would likely be strengthened as the 
government seeks to protect delivery of public spending to counter slower growth. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
As the primary goals of the DPL5 triggers are to improve the functioning of the government, this 
loan is expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction and a negligible impact on the 
environment. The DPL5 triggers are not expected to harm the poor, rather, all of the triggers are 
expected to contribute positively, though at times indirectly, to poverty reduction, mainly 
through improving governance and government systems, with the expectation that this will lead 
to better resource allocation in the government and increased private investment and job creation 
in the economy
.
Indeed, some triggers will more directly benefit the poor, such as through 
improving access to finance for SMEs, improving budget procedures to allow resources to flow 
more fluidly, better targeting of public resources for the poor, and increasing funding for 
community projects.  On the environment side, most triggers are unlikely to have any direct or 
significant environmental impacts, though in a few areas, there is a minor, indirect effect on 
environmental performance
—of
the kind that would generally be associated with any expansion 
in economic activities or increased service delivery.   
Page  4
8. Contact point 
Contact: Shubham Chaudhuri 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5781+3076 / 62-21-5299-3076 
Fax:  
Email: schaudhuri@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
