                                                                                                           94052
Improving and Modernizing El Salvador's Judicial System                                                 April 16, 2012




 Improving and Modernizing El Salvador's Judicial System


Overview
A World Bank project aimed to help improve the efficiency and accessibility of El Salvador's
judicial system, helping break a logjam of civil and small claims cases, enabling judges to focus
on judicial rather than administrative duties, and improving the overall level of service for the
people seeking to use the court system.


Challenge
At the time of project preparation, the judicial sector’s
                                                                    More Results
organizational structures and strategic planning were weak,
and policy makers lacked enough information for sound

                                                                    100%
decision making. There were no integrated information and
communication technology (ICT) systems in place where
needed. Policies and practices (and even operational
manuals) and administrative staff were disproportionately           of administrative units are now
                                                                    using institutional strategic
concentrated in the capital city. Approximately 2,400 cases         planning
in each non-criminal court were awaiting disposition, and
typical civil cases were taking approximately three-to-four
years from filing to disposition. There were 11,000 cases
pending in the small claims courts and 922 in the family
courts. Judges were spending 70 percent of their time on
administrative tasks, diminishing their main work of case
                                                                    85%
                                                                    of users are satisfied with the
adjudication.                                                       quality of service provision

There was also lack of access to legal information and little
room for citizen participation, especially by the poor. Around


                                                                    32,000
50 percent of the population surveyed reported that they
would not know how to obtain the services of a lawyer
should they be able to afford one. Furthermore, corruption,
weak judicial control, and lack of discipline and transparency      citizens in target municipalities
                                                                    have been reached by a popular
also plagued the judicial sector.                                   judicial education campaign



Approach
                                                                    LEARN MORE
The project's development objective was to improve El
Salvador's judicial system by promoting measures aimed at            El Salvador - Judicial
enhancing the effectiveness, accessibility and credibility of its    Modernization Project (2004-10)
judicial branch, through a participatory process involving           Website El Salvador Supreme
judges, technical and administrative staff and users of the          Court
judicial system. The project supported medium-term judicial          Website Public Sector Unit for
reform efforts through technical assistance to the judicial          Latin America and the
branch to promote its institutional capacity building and            Caribbean
knowledge sharing. Facilitating access to justice that would
bring courts closer to the public and help the disadvantaged
groups to access legal and judicial information would
complement the government's poverty reduction efforts. The
project was designed in accordance with good practices and
lessons learned. It replicated and learned from similar information technology, citizen outreach,
and access to justice efforts that were successfully implemented in other countries in the Latin
American region.


Results
The project has succeeded in putting in place a new integrated judicial court organization
model, including the instruments to support them. This model of a one-stop-shop justice center
comprises the physical integration of the courts, the creation of shared support and service
offices, and the separation of administrative from judicial tasks, which are now the priority for
judges. It seeks to improve efficiency and trial processing, and to achieve a better distribution
of work, and the promotion of a new culture of service. The project also aims to improve the
systematization of judicial and administrative processes, user attention and legal assistance,
and judicial information, learning, and community outreach for a group of courts (including
criminal, civil, family, labor and other courts).
Accomplishments in terms of efficiency can be found in the reduced personnel costs; the
deployment of 41 staff per 10,000 inhabitants compares favorably with the national level
deployment of 138 staff per 10,000 inhabitants. It is also evident in the reduced time for
processing civil, penal, commercial, and other cases; the pendency and backlog at the
Soyapango center is much improved from 5,478 active processes at the end of the period in
2007 to 3,431 in 2010. Moreover, survey results indicate that people’s perception of judicial
services as introduced by the project's new court model has improved among more than 50
percent of current users. Approximately 85 percent of users are satisfied with the quality of
service provision.
Results in terms of strategic planning, administrative systems, citizen information, and technical
assistance outputs are also very positive: 100 percent of administrative units are now using
institutional strategic planning; about 70 percent of staff have been trained on the new
corporate services; the supreme court website and the Centro de Documentacion Judicial
prepares a CD on laws and court decisions for judges; and a popular judicial education
campaign has reached 32,000 citizens in target municipalities of Soyapango, Ilopango, and
San Martin. In addition, the preparation of a new judicial map for El Salvador is a major step
forward that, when implemented over the medium-term, is expected to bring not only system-
wide improvements in the use of scarce resources, but also to bring services closer to the
people


Bank Contribution
As part of project preparation and project design, the Bank studied the background to the
judicial sector,  analyzed the main sector issues in depth, and considered government
strategies to deal with these issues. It also conducted a survey on access to justice by the
poor, and problems and needs of the administration of justice. The Bank coordinated a pilot
workshop in Washington D.C., facilitated by a local civil society organization, to assess views of
Salvadorans living abroad on the performance of the judicial system in El Salvador. In addition,
IBRD financing totaled US$17.1 million.


Partners
There were strong partnerships with the judicial sectors of other countries. For example, the
Bank arranged technical visits for Supreme Court policy makers to other Bank-supported
judicial projects (e.g. Guatemala) and to other good practice reform locations (such as
Singapore, Puerto Rico) to exchange views and acquire experience.  The project also
undertook technical learning visits to the judiciaries of Mexico and Puerto Rico.
Moving Forward
The new model of Soyapango Integrated Judicial Center (CJIS) is being replicated in other
courts in the country, which is expected to yield savings in terms of human resource
utilization.  The new court organization model with common services, administrative systems,
and ICT tools has been successfully replicated in San Salvador for a group of civil courts as
well as criminal courts.  A new judicial map for all the courts of El Salvador has been prepared.
It is expected to result in cost savings and enhance service provision at large urban locations.
Since most members of the Project Coordination Unit were seconded from the Supreme Court,
they will continue to work in the judiciary and this would ensure continuity in staffing.


Beneficiaries
Over 70 percent of users of CJIS perceive the offices to be efficient, and 60 percent say they
are very satisfied with the speed of service. Just over 90 percent of external users said they
were satisfied with the friendliness of the care they have been offered with this service. As
expressed by Julia, a citizen of Soyapango, “the staff at the Judicial Center were very friendly.
They helped me with my case and answered all my questions. This made it easier for me to
go through the process”.
