                                                                                                                 96082
Results Profile: El Salvador                                                                               October 19, 2010




 MOVING FORWARD

 El Salvador: Government Response to Global Crisis




Overview
El Salvador was characterized by a period of strong economic recovery - particularly in the
early 1990s. Yet, during the recent global crisis, El Salvador was seriously affected due to its
strong linkages with the U.S. economy. As a result, the Salvadoran economy suffered a
historic recession and poverty gains were partially lost. Through lending and non-lending
operations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has
accompanied this process and continues supporting the country’s economic and social agenda.


   Full Brief—4 Pages
El Salvador: Moving Forward: Government Response to Global Crisis—PDF, Sept 2010


Challenge
The recent economic and financial crisis has severely
                                                                       More Results
affected El Salvador’s economic performance, causing the
reversion of past years’ achievements. By 2008, overall

                                                                       100,000
poverty increased to 42.3 percent (compared with 35.5
percent in 2007), close to the levels observed in 2001. As of
the end of 2009, around 50,000 formal jobs had been lost. El
Salvador faces tremendous challenges in terms of                       families benefited from the
                                                                       Conditional Cash Transfer
accelerating economic growth, improving opportunities for              Program
the poorest and most vulnerable population and the
strengthening of public finance. Moreover, crime and
violence, which have worsened during the last year, has
become one of the major challenges for the country.
                                                                       MORE INFORMATION
Approach                                                                Country Website

                                                                        Technical Secretariat of the
Due to political polarization that limited consensus regarding          Presidency
new borrowing, IBRD’s contribution and support to the
country has been irregular in the last decade. However,                 Social Investment Fund for Local
                                                                        Development
IBRD, through its Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the
fiscal years (FY) 2010-2012, has recently renewed and                   El Salvador Judicial
reactivated its project portfolio. The overall aim of the CPS is        Modernization Project
to support the government of El Salvador in addressing                  Country Brief
poverty and inequality through three strategic objectives: (i)
                                                                        Data and Statistics
strengthen fundamentals for economic recovery by
addressing macro and institutional vulnerabilities; (ii)
strengthen social service delivery; and (iii) increase
economic opportunities, particularly for the poor.
                                                                    
As of August 2010, IBRD’s lending portfolio in El Salvador
consists of eight active projects with total commitments of US$866 million in various sectors
including, health, judicial modernization, public finance and public administration. The envelope
for the CPS period FY10-12 is estimated at US$650 million. A first set of operations under the
CPS was prepared and delivered during FY10 consisting of a US$100 million Development
Policy Loan (DPL) and three investment operations for US$150 million. IBRD also manages a
trust fund portfolio of US$1.4 million, supporting programs for violence prevention and
strengthening of fiscal management.

Results

Designed to be disbursed in two tranches, the US$450 million Public Finance and Social
Sector Development Policy Loan has supported continued institutional and social sector
reforms and has directly assisted the government in addressing fiscal issues by providing
critical support to navigate through the very difficult crisis period. Through this operation, the
government has been able to partially finance its Anti-Crisis Plan. Specific results from the
implementation of this DPL were reported as follows:

       Expansion of fiscal space through the implementation of a new tax on vehicles and the
       introduction of an ad-valorem tax on alcoholic beverages. As of July 2010, tax collection
       from alcoholic beverages (specifically from beer) has increased by 21.1 percent
       compared to 2009. The new tax on vehicles allowed the government to collect US$4.4
       million by July 2010.

       Improvements on the targeting of public spending. From a baseline of US$325 million in
       2008, untargeted public subsidies have been reduced to US$190.7 million (by July
       2010).

       Expansion of the Conditional Cash Transfer Program “Comunidades Solidarias.” The
       coverage of the program has been expanded from the 77 poorest municipalities in 2008
       to 100 municipalities by May 2010, benefiting a total of 100,000 families.

Partners

IBRD in El Salvador has maintained close partnership with the donor community, specifically
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Inter-American Development Bank. IADB
discussed its CPS with the donor community, receiving important contributions. Through the
Civil Society Funds, the Bank has also created a solid relationship with non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), foundations and other civil society entities.

Toward the Future

IBRD has been committed to continue supporting El Salvador’s economic and social agenda.
Looking forward, future Bank interventions will focus on structural and strategic issues rather
than responses to short-term needs as agreed for the crisis period. Reengagement in the
health and education sectors as well as in the mitigation of risks associated with natural
disasters will become the next priority for the Bank program in the country.
 

 
