Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7557
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 884-LES)
DECEMBER 30, 1988
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        -  African Development Bank
AfDF        -  African Development Fund
EEL5C       -   European Economic Community
ICB         -   International Competitive Bidding
LCU         -   Labor-Intensive Construction Unit
MOW         -  Ministry of Works
ODA         -   Overseas Development Administration, United Kingdom
PVPS        -   Plant and Vehicle Pool Service
RB          -   Roads Branch
RSA         -   Republic of South Africa
vpd         -  vehicles per day



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIA  tu  ONLY
Wasngton. D.C. 30433
US.A.
0hi -  D1 Octo,GWa
December 30, 1988
)ERANDUM TO TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SWBJZCT: Project Completion Report on Lesotho Third Hig;hway Project
(Credit 884-LES)
Attached, for tnfomation is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Lesotho Third Highway Project (Credit 884-LES)"
prepared by the Africa Regional office. Further evaluation of this project
by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attacbment
This document ha arikta disdbution and may be md by ueplta* nIn *  pufomne
of throMolaW duies Its contents may not oduwl be dbsod wihout Wodd ank euthorlm



aOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 884-LES)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ..........(.........i............)
Basi c Data Shoat . ....(4.........i....)                              i
Highlights....... .......         .; .              . ..........(iv)
REPORT
I.   INrRODUCTION         . .t****...... ;                           1
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION ..............     .      1
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST ....................... .       4
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ...................13
V.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION.... *.*......a.................  ... .15
VI*   ROLE OF THE BANK-* .....1..................17
VII.   CONCLUSIONS..................*..**                        ;     18
TABLES
Annex I Three-Year Road Regravelling Program
Annex 2 Actual and Expected Project Implementation
Annex 3 Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs
Annex 4 Disbursements by Category of Project Expenditure
Annex 5  Borrower's Compliance With Major Credit Covenants
Annex 6 Appraisal Economic Re-evaluation
St. Michaels-Molimo Nthuse Road
Annex 7 Appraisal Econoic Re-evaluation
Road Improvement Program - Equipment-Intensive Brigade
Annex 8 Appraisal Economic Re-evaluation
Road Improvement Program - Labor-Intensive Bridges
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LESOTHO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 884-LES
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the
Third Highway Project in Lesotho for which Credit 884-LES was signed on
April 6, 1979.  The Credit comprised of US$9.0 million in IDA funds and a
US$2.2 million EEC Special Action Credit. The closing date of the IDA
Credit was January 9, 1986, three years later than estimated at appraisal;
US$2.14 mill.4on of the credit funds were cancelled. The EEC Special Action
Credit was closed on June 30, 1984, six months later than estimated at
appraisal; US$0.56 million of the credit funds were cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Southern Africa Infrastructure
Operations Division and is based on a completion report for the project
dated August 6, 1987 submitted by the Borrower, Staff Appraisal Report No.
22QOb-LES dated February 2, 1979, supervision reports, legal documents, and
consultant progress and other reports. No correspondence files were found
in the Africa Information Service Center. The record of the Information
Service Center indicates that the files were sent to the previous Eastern
Africa Transportation Division who claimed that the files were returned to
the Information Service Center.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited bv OED staff. The draft PCR was sent 'to
the Borrower for comments on August 23, 1988. No comments were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.5T0O: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 884-LES)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                                          Appraisal           Actual or
Expctation        Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million)                                 13;33              11.70
Underrun or Overrun (X)                                                           11
Loan/Credit Amount (USS million)                                                      9.6 1/
Disbursod                                                                         6.9
Cancelled (EEC Credit)                                                            6.6
(IDA Credit)                                                           2.1
Ropa.d to DOcember 31, 1987                                                       0.0
Outstanding as per Decmber 31, 1987                                              8.9
Date Physical Comsponent  Completed                               12/82              6/85
Proportion Comploted by Above Oate (X)                                                56
Proportion of Time Underrun or Overrun (s) 50
Economic Rate of Return (X)                                         42                 39
Institutional Performance                                         Good               Fair
1/ Excludes EEC Special Action Credit of USS.2 milltion
OThER PROJECT DATA
Item                                        Original          Revision*         Actual or Esti-
Plan                            mated Actual
First Mention in Files or Ti.table -,                                               3/76
Government's Application
Negotiations                                                                       01/79
Board Approval                                                               -  03/13/79
Loan/Credit Agresemt Date                                                       04/08/79
DOte of Effectivenoes                          OC/79                            12/11/79
Closing Date                                66/36/63          63/80/86          63/31/80
Borrower                                                      Kingdom of Lesotho
Executing Agency                                              Ministry of Works
Fiscal Year of Bor.ower                                       April 1 - March81
Follow-on Project Name                                        Fourth Highway Project
Loan/Credit Number                                        Credit 1481-LES
Amount (USS million)                                      S16.2 million
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                July 9, 1984
ACCUWJLATEO DISBURSEMENTS (USS MILLION)
FY                                     1986    1981    1982       1983     1984     1983     1986
Appraisal                               2.6      6.6      8.9      9.0      9.6'      9.s      9
Actual 1/                                 6      0.5      0.8      3.4      4.7      6.7      6.9
Actual as X of Appraisal                  6        8 .      9.      38       62       76        77
1/ Excludes EEC Special Action Credit
2/ A total of USS2.7 millior cancelled.
_ _ _.._ _ _ _._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- iii -
MISSION DATA
item                                   Month/   No: of  No: of  Manweeks             cote of
Yoer    Weke   Persons                       Report
Identification
Propvration                          02/77            1        1         1          03/77
Preappraisal
Appraisal                            O6/78            a        2         6          07/78
Total
Supervision 1                        02/806           1        1         1          03/80
Sup-erviaion 2                       03/81            2        1         2          04/81
Supervision 3                        12/01            1        1         1          12/81
Supervision 4                        11/82            1        1         2          12/82
Supervision 6                        03/83          1.6        2         3          64/83
Supervision 6                        68/83            1        1         1          09/88
Supervision 7                        10/84            1        1         1          11/84
Total                                          12.5                18
EXCHANCE. RATE
Nam  of Currency (Abbreviation)                         Maloti (M)
Yoar:
Appraisal Yer Average (1978)                        Exchange rate: USSI a 0.87
Intervening Years Average (1979-84)                                USS1 = 1.03
Completion Year Averagn (1986)                                     US11 a 2.19



- iv -
LESOTHO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 884-LES
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
(M)     Highly mountainous with difficult terrai-. and wintry conditions at
high altitude, Lesotho depends almost exclusively on road and air transport
for internal transportation. While the domestic air service is reasonably
effective, the road network is inadequate both in length and in condition,
particularly in the eastern region of the country. Much of the network is
poorly maintained and many roads can be traversed only in the dry season,
and even then by four-wheel drive vehicles only.
(ii)    The primary objective of the Third Highway Project was to improve
the maintenance of Lesotho's road network through (i) the establishment of
equipment and labor-intensive brigades to help reduce the regravelling
backlog; (1i) the strengthening of road maintenance and equipment
maintenance units in the various regions of the country; and (iii) the
strengthening of the Roads Branch (RB), the unit under the Ministry of
Works (MOW) in charge of planning, design, construction and maintenance of
roads under MOW's jurisdiction and the Plant and Vehicle Pool Service
(PVPS) of the Central Mechanical Workshop and Plant Pool (CMWPP). Road
maintenance was slow to improve since the project took over six years to
implement instead of the three years estimated at appraisal, but the
improvements that were begun under the Third Highway Project are continuing
under the follow-up Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1481-LSO).    The
backlog of regravelling was reduced, although not eliminated, and routine
maintenance operatlons improved. Nevertheless, there still remains room
for improvements in productivity of maintenance operations, especially for
equipment.
(iii)   A second objective of the project was to establish a labor-
intensive work program within the Ministry of Works in line with Government
policy to provide more employment opportunities within Lesotho in the
eventuality that employment opportunities for Basotho 'n the Republic of
South Africa (RSA) were reduced. The program was based on the findings of
the pilot labor-intensive project financed under the Second Highway Project
(Credit 619-LSO). Two brigades were established under the project for this
purpose but one continued to suffer from serious staffing problems
throughout the project. Support for the program has continued under the
ongoing Credit 1481-LSO.
(iv)    There were two major revisions to the project during
implementation. These were: (a) the complete change of roads improvement



- v -                                             I
work program by the equipment and labor-intensive brigades, and (b) the
change in the composition of technical assistance. The roads improvement
program changed before implementation got underway because of a change in
Government's priorities. Another change was made later when it turned out
that much heavier improvement work was necessary on the unimproved roads
than originally anticipated. It was agreed that the Government financed
brigade would work principally on roads which required extensive
earthworks/drainage prior to regravelling whereas the IDA funded brigade
would be used for regravelling roads which already had received some basic
improvement and were under regular maintenance. The composition of
technical assistance changed due to the changing requirements for technical
assistance for the Roads Branch - because of additional donor assistance
received - and the Plant and Vehicle Pool Service - because of additional
staffing requirements towards the later half of the project.
(v)    There were significant cost savings in USS terms because of the
decline in the value of the Maloti$Rand against the US dollar during
implementation of the project. However, costs expressed in Maloti were
only about 92 higher than estimated at appraisal. The costs of the paving
component increased in real terms because of the bankruptcy of the
contractor select'd under ICB and the lengthy time taken to complete the
work by force acco,xnt. The increase in cost was financed from savings in
other components,
(vi)    There were substantial delays for all components of the project.
The serious shortage of professional staff in the Roads Branch and Plant
and Vehicle Pool Service resulted in delays for practically every component,
of the project, especially involving preparation of bidding documents,
tender evaluations and definition of work programs. Shortages of staff in
the Hinistry of Work's Architects Department also resulted in delays in the
buildings and workshop components. As can be seen in Anne:x2, most of the
project components had not even begun by the time of the completion date
estimated at appraisal. Although the critical shortage of staff had been
identified at appraisal, the Association made insufficient allowance for
those preparatory tasks that had to be carried out by RB staff and
consequently produced totally unrealistic implementation and disbursement
schedules.
(vii)   The staffing situation had somewhat improved by the end of the
project, although lack of local professional and other staff was still a
serious problem. Training of engineers has been a slow process and not all
return to the Roads Branch and Plant and Vehicle Pool Services.
Consequently, both departments will likely continue to depend on
substantial expatriate assistance over the next several years, especially
given the high demand for engineers required for the forthcoming Lesotho
Highlands Water Project. Greater efforts need to be taken by Government to'
improve the educational system so as to provide more candidates suitably
qualified to enter engineering degree courses and eventually increase the
number of graduate engineers.



LESOTHO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 884-LES)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Highly mountainous with rugged terrains and wintry conditions in
the highlands, Lesotho depends almost exclusively on road and air transport
for Internal transport. The country has no navigable rivers and no railway
except for a short (2km) rail link operated by South African Railways from
the South Africa border to Maseru. While the domestic air service is
reasonably effective, the road network is inadequate in length and in
condition, particularly in the eastern region of the country. Much of the
network is poorly maintained and many roads can be traversed only .n the
dry season, and even then only by four-wheel drive vehicles.
1.02     During the 1970s, Lesotho began to expand its road network and
upgrade earth roads to gravel and paved standard. The first two IDA
projects assisted the Government with upgrading part of the main north-
south road to paved standard and a major road into the eastern highland
area to gravel standard. By 1978, when the Third Highway Project was
appraised, there were 1,800 km of classified roads, of which 131 were paved
and 291 two-lane gravel. There were plAn to double the paved network over
the next five years and to increase the gravel road network by 501. While
the five-year plan was ambitious, by the end of the period in 1983
classified roads in the country had increased by 331 to 2,386 km, of which
17S were paved, 69Z gravel and 141 earth. The rapid expansion of the road
network had, however not been matched by expansion of maintenance capacity
since low priority was given to road maintenance with the result that many
of the roads were in poor condition, particularly 'gravel roads. As early
as 1978, it was estimated that about 25X of the paved network required
resealing and 75Z of gravel roads regravelling.! Consequently, the Third
Highway Project focussed on strengthenini the road maintenance organization
to ensure that the large investments being made in the road network would
be protected.
1.03     As part of the Second Highway Project (Credit 619-LSO) labor-
intensive methods of road improvement had been developed on a pilot basis,
in line with the Government's policy to make Lesotho less dependent on
employment of Bssotho in the RSA. The Third Highway Project assisted with
the development of the labor-intensive program, along with other bilateral
donors, concentrating on meeting some of the maintenance requirements by
using labor-intensive methods.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARAtION. APPRAISAL AND NEGOTIATION
Identification and Preparation
2.01     The poor maintenance of the classified road network in Lesotho was
identified as a major issue during the prepaxriton of the Second Highway
Project 1975. Subsequently, a maintenance program was prepared during
Implementation of the Second Highway Project in order to form the basis for
the Third Highway Project. The program was based on the findings of two



-2-
studies - the first was a study (financed under the Second Highway Project)
of the operations of the Ministry of Work's (MOW) Plant and Vehicle Pool
Service (PVPS), and the second was a study (financed by the African
Development Fund (AfDF)) of classified road maintenance requirements and
operations of the Maintenance Division of the Roads Branch (RB).
2.02     The poor maintenance of the road network was attributed to:
-  the serious lack of staff in both RB and PVPS at the
professional, technical and skilled labor levels;
- the 'lack of a regional organization;
- insufficient funding of road maintenance and delays in the
release of funds;
- lack of prograzming of maintenance activities;
- Inadequate cost. accounting;
- lack of a road inventorv; and
- generally inefficient operations and correspondingly low
levels of productivity.
2.03     The Second Highway Project also included a pilot project for the
establishment of a Labor-Intensive Construction Unit (LCU) within MOW. The
program was intended to support the Government's objective of expanding
domestic employment, especially in the event that the number of miners and
other workers employed in RSA would be reduced. The labor-intensive
component of the 'hird Highway Project was based on the experience of the
Second Highway's pilot project.
2.04     Upgrading of two road projects were requested by the Government
during preparation of the Third Project. The first was upgrading of the
Joels Drift-Khamane road (28 km) to paved standard and the second was the
upgrading of the St. Michaels-Molimo Nlihuse road (24 km) to paved standard.
The latter was being constructed to gravel standard as part of the
St. Michaels-Mantsonyane (95 km) road under the Second Highway Project, but
due to the deterioration of this one section of road because of heavy
rains, rugged terrain and higher than expected traffic, paving was
considered more economical than frequent regravelling.
AoDraisal
2.05     The project was appraised in May 1978.  It included the upgrading
of the Joels Drift-Khamane and St. Michaels-Molimo Nthuse roads (para
2.04), improvement of road maintenance, including workshops and operational
costs for one equipment-intensive and two labor-intensive brigades to help
clear the regravelling backlog, technical assistance and training. The
total cost of the project as estimated at.appraisal was US$19.1 million
which meant that there was a shortfall of US$8.7 million in the financing
of the project based on the initially propoeed US$7.5 million IDA Credit
and a 152 Lesotho Government contribution. Funding was subsequently
obtained from the African Developnent Bank (AfDB) for the upgrading of the
Joels Drift-Khamane road, therefore this component was dropped from che
Third Highway Ptoject.
2.06     After appraisal, changes to the project composition and cost
estimates were proposed by RB and accepted by IDA. The major change was



that equipment for the equipment-intensive brigade should be purchased and
owned by RB rather than being rented from PVPS, given the poor level of
service offered by PVPS at that time. Other additions to the project
included the construction of RB regional offices at Leribe, Thaba Tseka and
Mohale's Hoek, extension of the Maseru RB buildings, and accommodation
facilities for PVPS regional staff. The proposed technical assistance for
PVPS was substantially reduced from US$1.7 to $0.23 million on the
understanding that ODA would finance the required assistance. The final
project cost was US$12.64 million (excluding taxes).
Negotiations. Board Approval and Credit Effectiveness
2.07     The Credit was negotiated in Washington in January 1979.  It was
approved by the Board on March 13, 1979. The IDA Credit had been increased
from US$7.5 to USS9.0 million, covering 712Uof project costs.  In addition,
joint financing had been obtained in the form of a EEC Special Action
Crodit of US$2.2 mi?.lion whica financed another 17X of project costs. The
Government of Lesowho (GOL) was to fund the remaining 122. IDA Credit
effectiveness was conditional upon formal agreement between GOL and the
ODA on financing of technical assistance for PVPS's head office and central
workshop. The IDA credit was expected to become effective in June 1979.
Effectiveness was delayed by six month because of delays in signing the ODA
agreement.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
2.08     The principal objectives were to assist the G9vernment In
strengthening of road maintenance as its priority objective for highway
investment through restoration of the classified netvork to a satisfactory
condition and the Improvement of the operations of RB and PVPS as well as
opening up of the eastern mountain area of Lesotho. The project consisted
of the following components:
(a) Road construction
Upgrading to paved standard of St. Michaels-Molimo Nthuse
road. Supervision of construction by consultants.
(b) Road maintenance
Equipment purchase, spares, fuel, and repairs, materials, and
salaries of one equipment-intensive regravelling brigade.
Equipment purchase, spares. fuel and repairs, materials,
transport of materials, wages and salaries for two labor-
intensive brigades.
Construction and equipping of regional workshops for PVPS
plus staff accommodation.
Construction of regional offices, road camps and office
accommodation for RB.
Road maintenance equipment.
Material purchase for Government financed equipment -
intensive brigade.



-4-
(c)  Technical assistance and training
Technical assistance to improve RB and PVPS operat:ions.
Fellowships for RB and PVPS trainees.
(d) Oxbow-Mokhotlong Road
Feasibility study and detailed engineering.
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Implementation Arranremlnts
3.01     Overall responsibility for project implementation was assigned to
the Ministry of Works (MOW), assisted by consultants. Paving of the St.
Michaels-Molimo Nthuse road was to be carried out by contractor selected
under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures with consultants
selected under IDA guidelines providing supervision of the construction.
RB's Periodic Maintenance Section was to be in charge of organizing and
executing the road maintenance program, with RB's Design and Planning
Section preparing any engineering drawings required, and RB's Soils
Laboratory carrying out the site investigations and soil tests. Equipment
procured under the project were to be maintained and operated by PVPS. The
equipment-intensive brigade were to operate on the country's heavily
trafficked two-lane roads, some of which required substantial earthworks to
improve their alignment. The two labor-intensive brigades were to be used
primarily for improvement of less heavily trafficked single-lane roads
which only required regravelling works and clearing of ditches. Agreement
was reached with Government that the operations of the regravelling
(equipment-intensive) brigade to be funded by IDA under the project will be
complemented by the work of one equipment-intensive brigade to be financed
from RB's annkal budget. Completion of the project was targeted for
October 1982.
(a) Upgrading of St. Michael-Molimo Nthuse Road
3.02     About 29 km of the road between St.  4ichaels and Nollmo Nthuse
constructed to gravel standard under the Second Highway project were to be
upgraded to double surface bitumen treatment (5m width). Nine contractors
were prequalified, but only four sub,mitted bids (two from RSA, one from
Botswana and one from Lesotho), because of the small size of the contract.
The contract was awarded in October 1980, sixteen months later than the
appraisal estimate. There were major delays in the preparation of bidding
documents and calling for bids, due to the staff shortages in RB and the
lengthy bureaucratic tendering process within Lesotho.
3.03     The contract was awarded to a RSA contractor who started work in
November 1980 but ceased operations in February 1981 because of bankruptcy,
after only 6 km of reconstruction of the base course had been completed.
Following the liquidation order, the Lesotho courts appointed another RSA
contractor to continue work on the road on the same conditions of contract,
buit the contract was terminated by RB in November 1981 due to the



- 5 -
unsatisfactory performance of the second contractor. At this stage, only 9
km of reconstruction of the base course and prime coat had been completed.
The Government requested that the road be completed by force account with
equipment rented from private firms through PVPS, given that it had already
constructed various sections of roads to paved standard. The Association
agreed and work on the road was completed in March 1983, ten months later
than estimated by RB. The delay was due to (i) the lengthy mobilization
period, (ii) lack of sufficient hire plant and transport, (iii) slow
progress of the force account unit and (iv) additional works, since it was
necessary to reconstruct 7 km of the prime base that had been carried out
by contract due to its deterioration in the interim period. Altogether,
this component was completed 43 months behind the schedule estimated at
appraisal. The actual cost of the completed road was M1.4 million while
the bid price was M765,295. The cost overrun was financed from savings in
other components.
3.04     Supervision of works undertaken by contract was carried out by
British consultants to a satisfactory standard.
(b) R6ad maintenance
($)      Equipment-intensive brigades
3.05     The project provided for the establishment and operation over a
three-year period of one equipment intensive brigade. This equipment-
intensive brigade was complemented by a similar Government-financed
brigade.
3.06     The IDA financed equipment-intensive brigade did not start
operations until June 1981, 18 months later than estimated at appraisal.
The major cause for delay was the late procurement of equipment for the
brigade, due to (i) lack of qualified RB staff to prepare bidding
documents, carry out tender evaluations and award contracts, and (ii) lack
of response from suitable EEC suppliers for some items of equipment since
all equipment was financed under the EEC Special Action Credit.  Graders
were finally hired from PVPS since no EEC-based company was willing to
supply the required make.
3.07     The output of the brigade was lower than expected during the first
six months of operations (5.5 km per month compared to 8.0 km estimated at
appraisal). According to RB, the lower output was due to more works thae
estimated on unmaintained roads; however, the appraisal estimate of
productivity was based on substantial earthworks on some roads and
construction and clearing of ditches and drainage, but whether it was more
than the work experienced on the first road improved by the brigade is not
clear. Other reasons for low productivity of the brigade were (i)
difficulties in recruiting competent drivers and operators for the
equipment due to the low government salaries; and (ii) poor service offered
by the local agent for the tipper trucks purchased under the project. It
was decided in December 1981 that from April 1982 this brigade would be
used for regravelling maintained roads only. The program for the brigade
was consequently adjusted so as to include only roads that met this
requirement. Productivity of the IDA-funded brigade subsequently increased
to 8 km per month. Soon after work statted in June, 1981 it became



-6-
apparent that the equipment purchased under the project would be
insufficient to enable the brigade to function effectiveXy; IDA therefore
agreed to the hiring of extra self-propelled rollers, water tanks and
tippers for the duration of the project. At the then prevailing exchange
rate, it was anticipated that funds under the Credit for this category
would run out by early 1984. By December 1983, therefore, operations were
slowly wound down in anticipation of shortage o. funds from the Credit.
However, in August 1984, due to the depreciation of the Maloti/Rand against
the USS, it was found that there were unspent funds so that oper-tins of
the IDA-funded brigade were resumed for three months from October to
December 1984 to complete the revised program.
Road name                   Total lenath  FY82      FY83    FY84   FY85
B40 Old Hoek-Motsekuoa          88          67       21
B41 Hafeteng-Thabana Morena    50                    50
325 Leribe-Pitseng              28                   26      2
B23 Nyenye-Mapoteng             36                          36
324 Mapoteng-Teyat-7sneng       29                           19     10
3.08     As a consequence of the additional equipment hired by the brigade
(para 3.07), the size of the brigade's equipment fleet practically doubled.
While the appraisal had underestimated the number of tippers required (six
compared to the ten required) and a few other items, the main reason for
increased equipment needs was lower than estimated availability due to poor
maintenanck and repair by RB. The cost of regravelling was about M
13,0501km (US$12,000), about 8Z higher in real terms than estimated at
appraisal which is reasonable given the additional hiring of equipment.
However, this cost excludes the depreciation and interest cost of equipment
owned by RB, plus the cost of head office staff support and technical
assistance.
3.09     The work program agreed on at appraisal for this brigade is shown
in Annex 1. Actual output of the IDA-funded brigade was only 231 km
compared to the original project target of 300 km over three years because
of the slow start-up of the brigade and larger than anticipated quantities
of work on individual road sections. The table below shows the program of
roads completed by the IDA-funded regravelling brigade.
3.10     Operations of the Government-funded brigade began in May 1980.
Its productivity was much lower than estimated because of the low
availability of equipment, work on roads in remote areas, and higher than
esti-ated drainage and earthworks.  In December 1981, the Association and
RB agreed that this brigade would work principally on roads which required
extensive earthworks/drainage prior to gravelling. Its work program was
changed to ensure this. The cost per km of such operations averaged
M 23,000 over the period FY1981-85. RB attributed part of the high cost to
the cost of hiring equipment, so that it readily accepted ODA's offer in
December 1981 to finance the purchase of equipment for the brigade. The
equipment was put into operation between January and September 1983 and
additional equipment was also taken over from a basic agricultural special
project unit during that period. A total of 188 km of roads were improved
over a 46-month period (terminating September 1984) compared with the 300



- 7 -
km of regravelling originally estimated at appraisal. However, from
September 1981 to March 1982 the brigade was forced to halt operations
because insufficient funds were allocated for the year's work. The table
below shows the work program of roads completed by the Government-funded
regravelling brigade; the agreed work program at appraisal is shown in
Annex 1.
Road name               Total length   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84      FY85
A25 Ongeluks Nex             16          16
B36 Qomoqomong               6            6
A17 Tlel Border Post         10          10
B40 Old Hoek-Mpharane       30                  29
A14 Sani Top-Mapholanenq    45           45
Al Mapholaneng-Letseng       23                        23
A271B271 Khabo-Mate           7                         8
B29 Pitseng-Koasa            25                         6     19
- Mahobong-Ramapepe         8                          8
B27 Khabos-Pelatsoeu         18                                9         9
3.11     The activities of the IDA-financed equipment-intensive brigade
were continued under the Fourth Highway Project. Its productivity has
improved and costs reduced because of increases in efficiency.
(it)     Labor-intensive brizades
3.12     Two labor-intensive brigades were to be financed under the project
to carry out regravelling works with the assistance of consultants who
worked on the pilot project (financed under the Second Highway Project).
Brigade 1 was mobilized in April 1980 (three months later than estimated at
appraisal), using hired equipment until the delivery of equipment procured
under the project. The mobilization of Brigade 2 was delayed until May
1981 (16 months later than estimated) because of delays in the delivery of
equipment (para. 3.06) and the lack of senior supervisory staff. The two
brigades ceased opera tions at the end of 1983 when the funds available
under the project appeared to be exhausted.
3.13     Brigade 1 achieved an output of about 48 km per year compared with
the appraisal estimate of 50 km. However, IDA missions noted the poor
quality of work, citing poor quality and an inadequate level of thickness
of gravel. The Materials Branch of RB was meant to control the quality of
gravel but did not impose adequate controls because of lack of coordination
with LCU. The brigade also had additional problems with the non-
availability of 0.5-ton hand rollers for hire. Brigade 2 suffered from
continual problems throughout the project and did not complete the agreed
work program, only achieving an average output of 25 km per year compared
with the appraisal estimate of 50 km/year. A major problem was the
continual shortage of supervisory staff - a senior technical officer was
not appointed until the last year of the project and another technical
officer until the last 18 months. There was also dif.iculty in hiring
private tippers in the more remote areas of the country at the fixed rates
set by PYPS. With the exception of two roads, none of the roads in the



-8-
revised work program were the same as the original program agreed at
appraisal. The roads completed by the two brigades are shown below; the
agreed work program at appraisal is presented in Annex 1.
Road name                   Total length  FY81      FY82    FY83   FY84
Briaade 1.
B45  Mazenod-Moitsupeli        27.5        27.5
B46  Makhakhe-Raleqheka        35.7        22.0     13.7
B20  Lancers Gap-Thaba Bosiu  51.8                  51.8
B203 TY-Hateka                 16.0                          16.0
B232 Mpharane-St. Theresa      17.0                          17.0
B233 Kolojane-Bela-Bela         7.0                           7.0
3231 Khotsi-Hokong             10.0                           0.8    9.2
B26  Libono-Mononotsa           9.3                                  9.3
Brigade 2
B34  A4-Tosing                 14.0                 14.0
B35  A4-Ha Mosehle              5.0                  5.0
Mt. Moorosi-Mphaki        42.6                          25.6   17.0
3.14     Supervision missions noted several problems with LCU, including:
(i) the generally poor management of the Unit,
(Li)  tho hiring of as many people as possible without due
consideration for the efficiency of operations,
(iii) use of labor for quarry stockpiling when plant would have been
more efficient,
(iv) poor choice of hand tools, and
(v) inadequate route alignment in some cases.
Staffing has continued to be a problem for the LCU since it is not regarded
by engineers and technical officers as being part of MOW's 'mainstream'
operations and therefore are reluctant to join the Unit. In 1987, it still
had only one local engineer who was the head of the Unit; there was also a
critical shortage of technical officers. Its headquarters is made up of
temporary caravans, reinforcing the notion of the "temporariness' of the
program. All of the projects undertaken by the Unit are funded by donors,
including those under other ministries. The Government provides LCU with
funds for maintenance of the roads improved; these funds are used to employ
lengthmen wherever possible for the routine maintenance of the roads.
Costs for Brigade 1 averaged M7,550/km (US$8,000) over the period FY1981-
84, about 252 lower than estimated at appraisal; however, as noted in para.
3.13 the standard of work was not up to that envisaged at appraisal. Costs
for Brigade 2 averaged M13,900/km (US$13,640) over the period FY1982-84,
about 25Z higher than estimated at appraisal because of the continual
staffing and other problems discussed earlier.



- 9 -
3.15     The LCU has tended to undertake roads identified by RB and has not
developed its own capacity to identify and evaluate roads for improvement.
Most of the roads have not involved simple regravelling operations but
considerable upgrading works, including realignment, widening and improved
drainage. There has been little or no consultation with the local rural
population and no attempt to coordinate the Unit's activities with rural
and other development projects. Labor-intensive operations supported by
IDA in other parts of Africa have put far more emphasis on the selection of
roads at the-local level and coordination with other development projects
to help maximize the socio-economic impact of the road improvements. In
addition to improving the selection of roads, there needs to be a further
assessment of design standards so as to ensure that LCU is not building
roads to too high a standard given the relatively low traffic levels.
(iii)    Other maintenance equipment
3.16     A few items of equipment were purchased under the project for
general maintenance activities, including Bomag rollers, mobile premix
machines, radio sets, concrete mixers, plate compactors and rotary
compressors. Some of these items were purchased from local suppliers
following an amendment to the Credit Agreement allowing the purchase of
road maintenance equipment up to US$100,000 with IDA funds, using local
competitive bidding procedures. Workshop equipment for PVPS and office
equipment for RB were also purchased under the project.
($v)     Workshops and buildinas
3.17     Regional workshops and staff accommodation for PVPS and office
buildings for both PVPS and RB were constructed at Leribe, Mohale's Hoek
and Mokhotlong. The latter replaced facilities that were to be constructed
at Thaba Tseka since it was decided not to make it a regional headquarters
in view of the small length of roads maintained by RB in the area and the
construction of housing with British funding.  Only one office and one
house were constructed at Thaba Tseka under the project.  Other changes to
the project included the construction of a classroom block in Maseru RB
headquarters rather than extension of the office block, three offices for
design staff, and additional housing at the Haseru regional headquarters
for RB staff.
3.18     Construction was to be completed by mid-1980, but because of
delays by MOW's Architects Department in preparing design and bidding
documents contracts were not awarded until the second part of 1980. There
were further delays for the regional RB buildings because of land
acquisition problems with the result that construction did not begin until
AugustlSeptember 1981. The last construction contract was not completed
until January 1984. Contracts were awarded to local contractors after
following local competitive bidding procedures. Most of them performed
satisfactorily and only two fell seriously behind the agreed schedule.
(v)      Technical assistance
3.19     Roads Branch.  The project originally included the financing of
one Senior Roads Engineer (Maintenance), one maintenance engineer, four



- 10 -
assistant maintenance supervisors (technicians), one foremanltrainer, and
one training officer. However, funding of all of the above personnel, with
the exception of the Senior Roads Engineer (Maintenance) and the training
officer, was not required because these positions were filled with
expatriate engineers financed by other donors. RB and IDA agreed in July
1979 to hire one consulting company to provide the other positions plus a
cost accou' :-ant for RB and a training officer for PVPS. A French company
was selected and the consultants took up their positions in May 1981, 13
months later than estimated at appraisal. The delay was due to the time it
took for RB to decide on its staffing requirements and lengthy negotiations
with the company selected over the staff to be appointed.
3.20     After guidance from RB, the consultants submitted recommendations
on improvements to the maintenance organization, annual maintenance
requirements, staff, equipment and budget needs, a road inventory and
inspection system, and a cost accounting system for maintenance operations.
Field staff were trained in the use of the new cost accountino system, but
the system was soon dropped after departure of the consultants because of
lack of staff to provide the necessary data and suitable scaff to monitor
the quality of the data. The system is now regarded as too complex for
Lesotho and RB would prefer to try another more simplified system.
Similarly, the road inventory system has not been implemented. Training
courses were designed by the consultants and are still in use in the RB
classroom. Apart from the consulting team, the project also funded a one-
year contract for a Projects and Planning Engineer; funding of this
engineer continued under the Fourth Highway Project when he became the
Senior Roads Engineer.
3.21     PVPS.  The original project included the financing of three
workshop supervisors to supervise the regional workshops. ODA agreed to
finance staff for the headquarters and central workshop in Maseru,
including a cost accountant and two mechanical suporvisors; Irish aid
funded an additional mechanical engineer. After appraisal, the Government
decided to try to obtain other donor assistance for the three regional
mechanical supervisors but was unsuccessful in its attempts. Therefore, in
December 1981 the Government decided to use the funds available under the
project to finance a consulting company to provide the three supervisors,
as well as two mechanical engineers that were urgently required to improve
the operations of PVPS in Maseru. A British consulting company was finally
appointed in February 1983, 21 months after two of the mechanical workshops
had been completed and nearly four years after the appraisal estimate.
During the interim period, the performance of PVPS was very poor so that
some of the equipment purchased under the project had to be maintained by
the private sector.
3.22     The consultants recommended a reduction in the size of the fleet,
including the selling off of equipment before it was too old, removal of
responsibility for maintenance of military vehicles, private hiring of
special plant, and standardization of equipment. Most of the
recommendations have been implemented over the last few years.
Recommendations were also made with respect to training, but little
training of staff has actually taken place partly because of the con'tinuing
shortage of qualified counterpart staff. It was agreed in March 1983 that
the consultants also provide a Financial Controller to improve the



- 11 -
financial administration of PVPS. The contract for the consultant team was
extended from 18 months to two years and was continued under the Fourth
Highway Project.
(vi)     Fellowships
3.23     No fellowships had been awarded by December 1981 and an IDA
mission requested that a program be drawn up and suitable candidates
nominated as soon as possible.  However, no candidates had been nominated
by the time of the next IDA mission in November 1982. The first candidates
were finally selected in December 1982. At least part of the delay in
starting the program was the lack of priority given by RB to drawing up a
fellowship program and the lengthy Government selection process for
candidates. Three candidates were sent for one year Masters degree courses
in highway and traffic engineering and two others completed their first
year Mechanical Engineering degree courses in the UK; 17 other staff
attended short specialized courses in civil engineering, accounting,
management and traffic enforcement in various parts of the world. The
fellowship program is being continued under the Fourth Highway Project with
similar delays.
(vii)    Studies
3.24     Proposals for the Oxbow-Mokhotlong road feasibility study were
received from four consulting companies - two from the UK, one from France
and one from Germany. The French company was selected and the contract
signed in December 1980, twenty months later than estimated at appraisal.
Delays were due to the staff shortages of RB and the lengthy Government
bureaucratic process for the approval of contracts. The study was
completed in June 1981 although the final report was not accepted by
Government until December 1981. Detailed engineering started in February
1982 and was completed in April 1983, twenty-nine months later than
estimated at appraisal.
3.25     Although accepted by IDA at the time, the economic justification
for upgrading the road to paved standard was based on extremely high
estimates of normal traffic growth and particularly of generated traffic,
given the current low traffic levels on the road (10-15 vehicles per day
(vpd)) at the tIme of the study. Generated traffic was projected to be
higher than normal traffic the first year the road opened due mostly to a
projected 402 increase in the cultivated area within the area of influence
of the road; however, to date no such increase in agricultural production
has taken place in any area within Lesotho, even after intensive rural
development projects. It would appear that the upgrading of the road to
paved standard could only be justified on the grounds of regional
integration of the remote eastern area with the rest of the country, but
the possibility of achieving this objective with a gravel road (with paved
sections on the more treacherous mountaln passes) should have been more
carefully assessed. Financing for upgrading the road to paved standard has
recently been obtained from AfDB and Arab donors at an estimated cost of
US$300,000/km and construction is scheduled to start later in 1988.
3.26     Details of project implementation with comparisons of dates of
actual completion of project components compared with dates estimated at
appraisal are presented in Annex 2.



- 12 -
Proiect Revisions
3.27     Although there were major changes in the work program agreed on at
appraisal, the changes were in conformity with the objective of the
project. Only one -i±nor amendment was made to the project description in
the Credit Agreement in early 1985 to allow for the purchase of minor items
of maintenance equipment (para. 3.16).
Prolect Costs
3.28     A detailed comparison of project cost estimates at appraisal with
aetuals is shown in Annex 3. Total actual Rroject costs were US$11.7
million, 89Z of that estimated at appraisal. However, the lower cost is
mainly the result of the decline in the value of the MalotiJRand during
most of the years of project implementation. The total project cost in
Maloti was M 12.42 million, or 1091 of that estimated at appraisal.
3.29     Construction costs for the St. Michaels-Molimo Nthuse road were
192 higher than estimated in USS (41% higher in Maloti) because of the
bankruptcy of the contractor and the lengthy time taken to complete the
road by force account (para. 3.03). The equipment costs for the equipment
and labor-intensive brigades and routine maintenance were 272 lower than
estimated in USS because most equipment was purchased with EEC Special
Action Credit funds at a time when the dollar strengthened against major
European currencies (during the first two years of project implementation).
Operating costs for the equipment-intensive brigade were 16. higher than
estimated in USS because of the additional equipment hired from PVPS and
higher than estimated inflation.
3.30     Costs of RB buildings and office equipment were 92 higher than
estimated in USS because of changes to the original program; however, the
cost of workshops,' offices and staff accommodation for PVPS were lower than
estimated, at 53X of the original estimate in USS. There were changes to
the technical assistance component of the project with PVPS receiving far
more assistance than estimated at appraisal (pars. 3.21) and RB far less,
but overall the total costs for this component were as estimated at
appraisal. The cost of fellowships were 871 higher than estimated in USS.
Proiect Financing
3.31     Originally, the EEC was to finance US$2.2 million (spread over
various European currencies) of project costs. However, at the closing
date of the EEC component in June 1984, only US$1.64 had been disbursed as
there were little or no response to bid requests from EEC countries for
some of the equipment items, and these therefore had to be hired using
alternate source of funds (Para 3.06). The EEC financing covered most of
the items of equipment procured under the project, both for general
maintenance, the equipment and labor-intensive brigades, and the mechanical
workshops. In addition, EEC financing covered the Oxbow-Mokhotlong
feasibility study. A few items were purchased with IDA funds given
problems of procuring specific types of equipment from European suppliers
(para 3.16). IDA financed US$6.859 million of project costs which left
US$2.141 million of surplus funds at the Credit closing date. Most of the



- 13 -
surplus was due to the strengthening of the USS during project
implementation. A proposal by RB in 1984 to use the surplus funds to
rebuild two river crossings in the Mokhotlong zrea was rejected by IDA as
not being part of the original project and of being too expensive anyway.
Disbursements
3.32     Disbursements of the EEC Special Action and IDA Credits were far
behind those estimated at appraisal because of (i) the lengthy delays in
the implement7ation of the project Annex 2; (ii) the unrealistic
disbursement schedule est4mated at appraisal; and (iii) the slow processing
of claim by RB and the Treasury. According to the appraisal estimate, 832
of funds were to have been dis!,ursed by October 1981, two years after the
project was meant to have started; however, only'6S of funds had actually
been disbursed by that date. The start-up time for most of the project
components had been substantially underestimated, since most components
only began in mid-1981. Only 12S of Credit funds had been disbursed by the
estimated appraisal closing date. The IDA credit was finally closed in
January 1986, three years later than estimated; the total time to disburse
the Credit was about twice of that estimated at appraisal. Unused funds of
the IDA Credit amounted to US$2.141 million. The EEC Special action Credit
was closed in June 1984, with US$0.56 million of unused funds. A
comparison of actual disbursements compared with those projected at
appraisal is included in the basic data sheet and the breakdown of
disbursements by category of expenditure is given in Annex 4.
Procurement
3.33     There were no procurement problems with the project other than the
difficulties of obtaining a few specific items of maintenance equipment
from EEC suppliers (para. 3.06) and the lengthy bureaucratic procurement
process of Lesotho.
Regortins
3.34     Progress reporting requirements were agreed at negotiations.  Up
to the beginning of 1983, progress reports were submitted behind schedule
- often six months after the due date.  However, MOW made progress in
submitting progress reports on schedule thereafter, but often the reports
were incomplete and did not contain sufficient detail. Insufficient or no
coverage was given to the status of the implementation of covenants,
appraisal and actual implementation timetables for some components, key
personnel changes in the staffing of RB and disbursements of credit funds.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Covenants and Borrower's Performance
4.01     Details of the covenants of Credit Agreement 884-LES and
Government's compliance with them are given in Annex 5. Tn general,
covenants were adhered to although with some delays at times.
4.02     The major covenants and side letter required adequate budgetary
funds to be made available for road maintenance, but the figures given in



- 14 -
the covenants have led to much confusion so that different IDA supervision
missions have given different interpretations of whether the covenants were
adhered to or not. The figures given in the covenants refer to a budgetary
line item, 'maintenance of public assets', which does not include most of
the wages and salaries of RB staff. However, additional funds for road
maintenance have been allocated under another budgetary line item,
"counterpart contributions", in order to meet the Credit conditions. If
these two line items are added together then the Government adhered to the
covenants from FY197.9-1983 by increasing maintenance allocations each year
to be at least equivalent in real terms to the M 3.0 million specified in a
Side Letter to the Credit Agreement. Funding was just below the required
amount in FY 1984 and 172 below the required amount in FY 1985. However,
according to revised estimates of maintenance expenditure requirements for
the Fourth Highway Project in 1984, the maintenance budget was adequate in
FY 1985, although it proceeded to decline thereafter.
Performance of Consultants
4.03     Consultants were employed for supervision of construction,
strengthening of RB and P'JPS, and to carry out a feasibility study. The
performance of the consultants providing assistance to RB was somewhat
limited due to the high turnover of staff, limited English capability, and
little time spent in the field (para 3.19). Unfortunately, not all of the
work produced by the consultants proved to be of practical use to RB,
especially the cost accounting system (para. 3.20). The consultants who
carried out the feasibility study provided an economic justification of the
Oxbow-Mokhotlong road which had some fundamental weaknesses which should
have been rectified at the draft stage (para. 3.25). Performance of the
other consultants was satisfactory.
Institutional performance
4.04     Roads Branch.  A major objective of the project was to improve the
maintenance organization of RB and overall maintenance operations. During
the latter part of the project, maintenance of roads did gradually improve,
especially with the arrival of more technical assistance. The backlog of
regravelling was reduced although there was still a considerable amount at
the end of the project. Routine maintenance of roads improved although
earth roads did not receive any maintenance at all (as they still do not),
apparently because of lack of funds, although RB has always given higher
priority to the bituminized and gravel roads.
4.05     At the end of the pro lect, there were still some fundamental
weaknesses in the organization which has continued throughout the Fourth
Highway Project. There was no cost-accounting system, no road inventory,
no formal methodology for establishing maintenance priorities and budgetary
requirements, inadequate supervision and monitoring of maintenance
activities, and low levels of productivity. Many of these deficiencies
were due to lack of qualified staff and low levels of staff motivation
because of very low wages and inability to fire workers for poor
performance. As of August 1983, out of a total of 31 professional
positions (engineers, assistant engineers and financial controllers), 21
positions were vacant. Similarly, out of a total of 116 sub-professional
positions (e.g. technical officers, storekeepers, and supervisors), 47



- 15 -
positions were vacant. The shortage of qualified local engineers is
especially serious with only one local engineer as Chief Roads Engineer and
the rest expatriate staff. The situation is slowly improving during the
Fourth Highway Project, although there are still serious staffing shortages
at all levels and heavy reliance on expatriate staff,
4.06     PVPS.  Road maintenar.,e depends heavily on the performance of PVFS
which is in charge of the procurement, maintenance and repair of equipment,
plant and vehicles hired by Government agencies, including RB. Very little
improvement took place during the project because of the deteriorating
staffing situation increased fleet size, and delays in appointing.
necessary technical assistance. The fleet size increased from 780 units in
1978 to about 1500 in 1983 while the number of- senior management staff
decreased from 10 engineers, accountants and supervisors to only two during
the same period. The number of mechanics and' other trained artisans only
increased by 12Z1, resulting in a high ratio of 30 vehicleslitems of
equipment to one mechanic. Availability rates were about 64Z and
utilization only 602 of the time equipment was available.
4.07     The technical assistance team was only in place during the last
two years of-the project. It began to take measures to reduce the size of
the fleet, standardize vehicles and equipment, improve the operations of
the Central and regional workshops, and Amprove accounting procedures. It
continues to assist with improving the performance of PVPS throughout the
Fourth Highway Project. PVPS still has to improve operations in key areas,
especially preventive maintenance and productivity of mechanics and
operators. Equipment operators still have an unacceptably low level of
productivity; for example, graders only achieve an average of 2.5 km of
grading per day when a reasonable output should be at least three times
that level. There was also very little training of artisans dur!ng the
project and training continues to be very limited.
-V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
St. Michaels-Molimo Kthuse Road
5.01     The economic reevaluation of the paving of the St. Michaels-Molimo
Nthuse road is based on the same assumptions as at appraisal. The economic
life of the road is taken as 15 years and it is assumed that in the
"without project" case the road would be maintained to a good gravel
standard. All costs and benefits are in constant 1982 prices. Traffic
figures were only available for the first section of the road which has
sigdificantly higher traffic levels than the second section because of the
different densities of population. The second section climbs into the
highlands and has very little population residing within the area of
influence of the road. The economic reevaluation has therefore assumed
that traffic on the second section is only half of that on the first. The
appraisal forecast a 201 generation of light and medium traffic after
completion of the project and a 101 growth in total traffic. However,
actual traffic counts for the first section of the road indicate that there
has been a lower than forecast increase. Total traffic increased by 71
p.a. from 1978 until 1983 - the year of completion of the component - 18Z
from 1983 to 1984, and thereafter remained fairly constant. Actual traffic
figures for 1983 to 1986 were included in the economic reevaluation of the



- 16 -
project and an annual increase of 72 has been assumed for the remaining
years. Based on the traffic counts available, the composition of traffic
is also different from that assumed at appraisal insofar as cars are now
estimated to represent 48% of total traffic and light commercial vehicles
37% as compared to the 64% and 24% estimated at appraisal.
5.02     The reevaluated internal economic rate of return is 15.5% compared
t'o 15% estimated at appraisal. Although the increase in traffic has been
assumed to be lower in the economic reevaluation, the rate of return is
still close to that assumed at appraisal because of the three year delay in
completion of the project which meant that the initial traffic level was
higher. Also regravelling cost savings make up a significant percentage of
the benefits of the project and these have been estimated to be higher than
the appraisal estimate in the economic reevaluation, based on the latest
costs available from RB. The detailed re-evaluation is presented in
Annex 6.
Road Regravelling Component
5.03     In the absence of a detailed road inventory describing actual road
conditions and present traffic levels for all roads, the appraisal report
evaluated this component based on average road conditions and traffic
counts on (i) one-lane and (it) two-lane gravel roads. The appraisal
economic analysis compared the 'with project' situation, in which about 200
km of roads are regravelled annually, with the "without project" case where
the roads would receive no more than a minimal level of recurrent
maintenance,  The appraisal estimAted that regravelling of roads with
average traffic of 35 vpd for one-lane and 60 vpd for two-lane roads with
102 per annum traffic growth rate would yield satisfactory rates of retuft
of 32S and 581, respectively. A list of roads to be regravelled were
agreed upon with IDA after the appraisal (noted in a Side Letter).
Procedures for prioritizing and hence selecting these roads, however, was
never clear. Subsequently, the priority of road sections to be regravelied
were revised on several occasions, without clear evaluation of their
priorities. In actual implementation, it was found that none of the road
sections agreed to in the original list nor the subsequent revised lists
were actually regravelled. The reasons behind this are explained in para.
3.07. As discussed in para. 5.05 below, however, the lack of procedures
for prioritizing regravelling works did not materially affect the
effectiveness of the regravelling program.
5.04     In the absence of economic evaluation for each road section and
lack of information as to how the road sections were initially selected,
the improved road sections were ex post evaluated, based on the following
assumptions.  The annual 10% growth rate of traffic is the sa&   , that
forecast at appraisal. However, the composition of traffic based on actual
traffic counts is quite different from that assumed at appraisal. Cars
comprise 422 of total traffic compared to 5% at appraisal, light commercial
vehicles 33Z compared to 55% and heavy vehicles and buses 25% compared to
402. The lifetime of thw regravelled surface has been taken as four years
because of the higher traffic instead of the five years assumed at
appraisal. Traffic on roads improved by the labor-intensive brigades
appear to be the same as estimated at appraisal, i.e. 35 vpd in 1978, but
with an 8% annual growth rate, based on counts taken for five roads



- 17 _
improved by the brigadea and subsequently included in the Fourth Highway
Project for regravelling. The lifetime of the gravel surface has been
estimated to be six years instead of the seven assumed at appraisal, based
on the findings of the Fourth Highway Project appraisal. The same project
also found that the composition of traffic was different from that
estimated at appraisal: cars comprised 38Z of total traffic, light
comiercial vehicles 38Z and heavy vehicles 24Z.
5.05     The ex-post economic rate of return evaluation for both the one-
lane and two-lane road regravelling programs were found to be satisfactory.
For the one-lane road regravelling program using labor- intensive method>a,
the ERR yields 36Z compared to the appraisal estimate of 32Z. For thrA two-
lane road regravelling program using equipment-intensive brigades the ERR
is 621 compared to the appraisal estimate of 581. In total, the
regravelling program accomplished its objective of substantially reducing
the back-log of periodic maintenance works through carrying 2ut
regravelling on nearly 301 of the gravel and earth road network. Details
of the cost and benefit streams for the economic reevaluation are in
Annexes 7 and 8.
VI. ROLE OF THE BANK
6.01     After emphasizing the serious staffing shortages of both RB and
PVPS at appraisal, IDA proceeded to draw up a project implementation
schedule that was based on assumed wall-staffed and efficiently run
departments. Even by the time the Credit was presented to the Board, the
project was already behind schedule. For example, the bidding documents
for the St. Michaels-Molimo Nthuse road were meant to have been completed
by the end of 1978 according to the appraisal estimate, but were nowhere
near completion by Board presentation in February 1979 (see Annex 2).
Given the time it takes to recruit qualified staff in a low salary
environmant and the crisis-management in the interim period, IDA should
have allowed far more time for the preparatory stages of each project
component. Similarly, a far more realistic disbursement schedule should
have been drawn up, especially given the experience with the previous
project (Second Highway Project).
6.02     Given the role the Association played in setting up the labor-
intensive operations, far more attention should have been focused on the
progress of the LCU. More emphasis should have been put on training, as in
other labor-intensive programs supported by IDA in Africa, given the
crucial role played by qualified supervisors in the success of such
programs. However, there was no specific training program identified at
appraisal. It would have been beneficial to have had an ILO or other
engineer experienced in labor-intensive methods review the operations of
LCU half way through the project in 1982, especially since LCU has tended
to use more equipment than other similar programs. Funding of the brigades
continued under the Fourth Highway Project and although the supervision and
quality of work improved, the program has tended to drift and has no clear
objectives.
6.03     When reviewing the feasibility study for the Oxbow-Mokhotlong
road, the comments of the Bank's agricultural division should have been



- 18 -
sought vis-a-vis the projected increase in agricultural production. The
ftgures used in the study were based on Government objectives in the sector
which have not been realized and had little to do with actual experience of
rural development or other projects (para. 3.25).
6.04     The project was timely insofar as it focused on maintenance
requirements at a time when the road network was increasing at a rapid
pace. Although there is still much room for improvement, maintenance
standards in Lesotho are still higher than in many other African countries
and maintenance costs are at a comparable level.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.01     There were lengthy delays for nearly all project conponents due
mainly to the shortages of RB and PVPS staff, lengthy Government
procurement procedures, and unrealistic appraisal schedule. The staffing
situation had somewhat improved by the end of the project, although lack of
local personnel was still a serious problem because of the lack of suitably
qualified engineers in Lesotho. Consequently, RB and PVPS will likely
continue to be dependent on expatriate engineers and other professionals
over the next several years, especially given the large number of engineers
required for the forthcoming Lesotho Highlands Water Project. However,
improvements in the educational system in Lesotho could help increase tlhe
number of candidates qualified to enter engineering degree courses and
eventually increase the number of graduate engineers.
7.02     Technical assistance and the roads improvement program were the
components that differed substantially from that envisaged at appraisal.
Technical assistance differed from that of appraisal becaase of the
changing requirements of RB and PVPS due to unforeseen changes in the
provision of other donor assistance. Costs expressed in Maloti were not
substantially differcnt from that estimated at appraisal, although there
were significant dollar savings because of the decline in the value of the
Maloti against the US dollar.
7.03     The project, together with other donor assistance, was
instrumental in building up the maintenance organization of RB and PVPS and
generally improving maintenance standards. The equipment-intensive
regravelling brigade continues to function efficiently and has recently
been taken over by local staff. The labor-intensive operations have slowly
improved, although the program as a whole now requires an in-depth review.
The strengthening of the RB regional organization has resulted in improved
routine maintenance, although there continues to be serious staffing
problems. PVPS has improved the maintenance and repair of vehicles and
equipment, but efficiency and productivity still need to be improved.
However, PVPS will face critical staffing problems in 1988 when funding for
technical assistance under the Fourth Highway Project will be exhausted and
there will be no experienced local engineers to replace the expatriate
staff.



- 19-                                    Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT-f   CREDIT 884-LES
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Three-Year Road Retravelling Proeram
.1.   Goverument-Financed Equipment Intensive Brigade:
.               .        ~~~~~~~~1970     *R .       191            1982
Sphalos - Borde Post                                                     TFH'H
Wakhaleng - Border Poat ( 4 km)
Mahatea Hook - 'uthitn  (47 km)
tole kdge - ordear Post (12 km)
Old Neok - NoCstaus (66 ks)
|   qcti  - H nsliss (7 km)
2habu  YA=a - Tsolon (33 km)
j R-oh PAMq - RAMosl (40 km)__
I~~~Tapm  _0 Bode ft t (12 km)__
' JiP~A - olluvu   k  (13 km)._
wPit.qauebe'. yak - sordee Posn (14 ha)
I. 
.2. IDA-Financed Equipment Tntensive Brigade:
1979  tqao        190     -.-1823
Setlkeun-L.ucers (60  ) k m )9hJ
320 - Hateka (3.1 kim)                                 I           Ii
Leribe-Pieseos (2 ka) k  m)_
Laetsnek- aabos (10 ka)                                i
Joels Orift-Leasenq (68 km)                  I                   _
Letaoag-iokheteong (44 ka),I/
Mpharame-Moleteane (3? ha)
kiuathee - 823 (23 hk)
Total oed length 72  I.



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
3.    IDA Financed Labor Intensive Brigades:-
1979       1980            1981             912
A.  First Brigade
Rainai - A2 (14 km)
*l{shame - uI*lqb.ka (30 kmn)
Haod - Mottsupeli (31 kl)
AZ - Rothe - Ha makintan  (34 km)
Ngobs  - Phbl*le - Al (20 kai)
Joels Drift - L1bOw.A30 km)
a.  Second BtLrde                                    .
Pltsis -    I-wast  - Koasa (28 o)_
akbhotlo@g - Thba TJ8ka - TaUg (80 km) it
323 - St. Thera  (18 ki*)
3233 - Kelojamo (7 km)
3231 - flkons (18 km_)
I Total. road length 117 km



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO: THIRD HICINAT PROJECT (CREDIT 884-LES)
Actual and Expected Project Implementation
-----------------------.------------------
Date of           Date of            Date of           Date of                X of Works
Project Component          Contractor/           Bid Recelpt      Contract Award Beginning of Work  Completion of Work           Co-pleted by
Consultant        -------------- - ---------  --- ---------- ---------------                          Expected Com-
Nationality        Actual  Expected  Actual  Expected  Actual  Expected  Actual  Expected             pletion Date
Paving St. Michsols-
Wolino Nthuso road:
- construction                 RSA               6/80     3/79    10/80     S/79    11/80      7/79      3/83     9/790
- supervision                   UK                                 9/80     4/79    10/80      6/79      9/S1     9/79                  0
Equipment-intensive unit:
- equipment purchase       Various               6/90     2/79    10/80     4/79                        6/81      8/79                  0
- unit operations               Re                                                    6/81     1/80    12/84    12/82                  48
Labor-intensive unit:
- equipment purchase       Various               8/S0     2/79    10/80     4/79                        C/81      8/79                 0
- unit operations               Re                                                    4/80     1/SO    12/83    12/82                 81
Routine maintenance equip.  Various               8/80     2/79)   10/80      4/79                        ales     8/79                  0
RB regional offices/accom.   Local                9/S0     3/79                        3/81     7/79      4/84      /860                 0
PYPS workahops/acco.          Local                                                    9/80     7/79      1/84     0/80                  0
PVPS tools/equipment        Various              11/91     2/79                                          86/82     8/79                  0
Technical assistance
- RB                        France                                 4/S1     3/79      6/81     4/79     7/84      6/82                 33
- PVPS                          UK               7/82     1/79     2/83     3/79      2/83     4/79     7/85      6/82                 a
Fellowships                 Various                                                    1/84     7/79     8/86      8/82                 8
Oxbow-Mokhotlong Road;
- feasibility study         France               4/80     3/79    12/80     4/79      1/81     7/79     6/81                           0
- detailed engineering      France                                                    2/82              4/83    11/80                  0
Source:  Appraisal Report. RB end Suprvsielon Reports.
0



Annex .
- 22-                                                        Page 1 of 1
t!=U1 _        ULETU4 N,          _
Projet        en                              Aera     Estimate 1/                           Acual Coat gatimte 21                   Actual as S
._____ ______     -                   of Apraisal
Poreiw.    Total  Fotriwg    Total r  gn    Total  foreiW.    Total                          Eftimat
(-Wa  00-)  (--          ti soo-->            (     6  '00-)  (iloti  000-)I   tun                        leti
St, Nichsa.l441  ;i timug  road           Su       1137      742       WJ                 "a      1349      037      1401               119       142
uaerviaiea of works                        4         76       43                 6         2        95       S7        67              1to        i
Sub-i.t1 t             _         906      1213      766     lO6               1060      1444     10       1446                119       141
IS. Iirmvw_Aet  Mravl/ar   roads
A.                     Brig-iatd-i e Ilauda
(i)   ti i euorea"                   M06      a72       720     7?S                 640      $74       44       520                 77       go
tt;)    aer.tia    t.                 W76     22         640     19                 106*     24        17       3016                116      152
Sub-toal                      1mm       3166      157      2746               1724     3317      1731     356                 106       in
S. Laher-intem,ie Brigade
(i)  fEi_sost purrhaae               144      in        1        132                114      120                 92                 7        70
0ii)  Operting costa,                1104     251        960     2306                a"      2162       66      2170                 62       94
Sub-total                      1248     26        16       2437                 7      2n           5     2S62                  1       93
Sub-total XI                    3054     390       256      8153               2706     Ss"       2666      76                  94      112
UXt. Ha;intena    ESsui.oa                196      206       172      16                 1oo L005           105     1I                  so        61
IV. Re Regional Office/;Accomaedtion
(I)  Sildin"e. CeaPS                 2"       746       260      650                32       614       357      692                lo       17
Ci)  Office Eguipent6                           69        57       60                 72       76        70       74                110      12
Sub-totl IV                      36       817       317      710                396     6S         427      96                 lo      13
V. PVPS Worv,ahmaAcoammdation
(i)  worhahos/joffIe buildings       S0      120        441     1075                200      501       204      S10                 41       47
(ii)  Toole and equipment             S34      57        7n5      sea               S1       S"4       5s        ao                  2       76
(;;)  Staff Accmdation                 36       69        320      761                218      Sa        206     s51                  6o       N
Sub-total V                     1709     3012      1466     2619                93      L5         "I      1606                 Ss       S1
IS. Tachne-al Aaai-ence
c;)  Strengthening M                 67      1075       77       93                  o       776       697      6n                  72       93
(00)  Strenthe;ing PVPS               202      253       176      220                426      Su        609      76l                21       34
Sub-total VI                    1073     12S        933     11                 104      111       1306     182        * e               141
VIZ. Fl lowehip                           54        S4       47       47                101      0ol       1SS      15                 167      330
VIII. Studloa (Oahoahbhalre -n)
(i)  Fa abilaty study                1s6      2S1       6l1      201                230      267       196      247                124      123
Oetall.d lSginaering                  24       307       214      267                306      361      315       419                124      137
Sub-total VIII                   4S1      S6        374      4663                34  US            6=       "S                 124      142
TOTAL                                    7765    13181      6770    11416               6676    11702      726     12421                          lo 10
Footnota
1/ Includes physicel and prico continfencies.
Current. suchenga rate:
ApprusaUl U861.0  I4 0.57
2/ Currency svchano, rota:
Averse* omchance rate takrn according to diaburaamenta made each year
Average *achancg  rate used for *ech fic-al year (Asril-March):
FY 1981   U561.0  e M 0.83
1982          * " 1.00
1983          * 1 1.10
1984          * H 1.25
1968          * 141 1.70



- 23 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Lesotho: Third Highway Project - Credit 884-LES
Disbur$ements by Category of Proiect Expenditure
A. IDA Credit 884-LES
CateRory                                 Protect Expenditure
Apgraisal          Actual
Civil works                              800              1063.6
Road Improvement:
- equipment-intensive brigade           1200             1758.9
- labor-intensive brigade               1600             1068.1
Buildings                               1900              1354.0
Maintenance equipment/tools                0                64.7
Technical assistance and                1300              1549.6
fellowships
Unallocated                             2200
Total                                   9000             6858.9
B. EEC Credit 2-LES
Maintenance equipment                   1000              728.0
Workshop equipment/tools                 700              416.0
Consultant services                      400              500.0
Unallocated                              100
Total                                   2200             1644.0



- 24 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 884-LES
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Compliance With Loan Covenants
The Borrower shall, beginning            Section 3.07   Complied with,
October 1979 or such other date                         although execution of
as may be agreed between the                            the program was
Borrower and the Association,                           delayed.
start to implement the road
regravelling program included
in Part B of the Project,
annually review and update the
sa.id program on the basis of
road and traffic conditions
and of the Borrower's economic
development, and at least three
months before the beginning of
the following year's program,
furnish the said program as
updated to the Association
for its approval.
The Borrower shall (i) exchange          Section        (i)  Complied with.
views with the Association, not          4.02 (c)       (ii) Complied with
later than December 31 of each                          except for the
year on budgetary requirements                          last year of project
for road maintenance;                                   implementation (pera
(ii) allocate for each fiscal                           4.02).
year sufficient budgetary funds,                        (iii) Not fully
(iii) make the budgetary funds                          complied with during
required during each calendar quarter                   implementation of the
available not later than the first                      project, although
day of such quarter for the exclusive                   more funds were
use of RB.                                              released during the
last two years of
project
implementation.
To prepare annual routine                Section        Complied with.
maintenance program and                  4.02 (b)
maintain the gravelled roads
in accordance with engineering
practice.



-25-
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
To take action to ensure that            Section        A program for
dimensions and axle loads of             4.04           enforcement of
vehicles are consistent with                            traffic regulations
structural and geometric                                was prepared but not
design standards of roads.                              implemented during
the project because
of delays in-
installing permanent
veighbridges.
However, overloading
is not thought to be
a serious problem
in Lesotho.
To provide a minimum of                  Side           See Section 4.02 (c).
M3,000,000 in FY1979 for road            letter
maintenance and to take into
account any changes in
equipment rental rates as well
as other cost increases and
changes of RB's road maintenance
activities for establishing the
maintenance budget over the
following years.
To review Fs rental charges              Side           Complied with.
and to communicate its findings          letter
to the Association for its
coments not later than
May 31, 1979.



26 -                        Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 884-LES
-----------------------------------------------
Appraisal Economic Reevaluation
St Michaels-Molimo Nthuse Road
.______________________________
(Maloti '000) 11
Year          Capital          Maintenance      Vehicle Operating      Net
Cost          Savings 21      Cost Savings 31  Benefits
 ____       _________         ___________                        ---------
1980              149                                               -149.0
1981              162                                               -162.0
1982              815                                               -815.0
1983              233            243.1              74.0             84.1
1984                              13.0             115.1             128.1
1985                             243.1             111.2            354.3
1986                              13.0             115.6             128.6
1987                             243.1             123.7            366.8
1988                            -226.8             132.4             -94.4
1989                             243.1             141.6            384.7
1990                              13.0             151.5             164.5
1991                             243.1             162.1            405.2
1992                              13.0             173.5             186.5
1993                             243.1             185.6            428.7
1994                            -226.8             198.6            -28.2
1995                             243.1             212.5            455.6
1996                              13.0             227.4            240.4
1997                             243.1             243.3            486.4
Internal economic rate of return     15.45 2
------------------------------------
1/ Economic costs in 1982 prices
2/ Based on appraisal assumption of resealing every six years,
regravelling every two years and grading every 90 days.
3/ Based on traffic counts for 1983-1986 and 72 p.a. growth thereafter.



-27 -
Pasg 1 of
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
_____.___________________
LESOTNO: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 884-LES
-----------------------------------------------
Appraisal Economic Reevaluation
_______________________________
load Improvement Program
------------------------
- Equipment-intensive Brigade
(MHloti '000) 1/
Year          Capital          He4at.nance      Vichle Operating       Not
Cost 21         Costs 31       Cost, Savings 41  Benefits
1980
1981              908                                               -908.0
1982             1087              13.5            476.7            -623.8
1983             1060              37.8           1465.3             367.5
1984              586              55.9           2389.1            1747.2
1985                               62.4           2931.0            2868.7
1986                               48.9           2530.2            2481.3
1987                               24.6     *     1396.0            1371.4
1988                               6.5             404.3             397.8
1989                                               280.0             280.0
Internal economic rate of return     61.72 2
_________    ------------_ ------____ _______
It Economic costs in 1982 prices.
21 Includes cost of equipment and operating costs of equipment-intensive
brigade, and part of technical assistance and regional buildingstworkshop
project component costs.
31 Difference between routine maintenance costs of good gravel road and
poor gravel road.
41 Based on assumption of average of 80 vpd in 1979 with 102 p.a. growth.
Voc difference between good gravel road and poor gravel road.
51 Residual value of workshop facilities.



-28 -                         Annex 8
Page 1 of
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
_________________________
LESOTHO: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 884-LES
-----------------------------------------------
Appraisal Economic Reevaluation
Road Improvement Program
Labor-intensive Brigades
(Maloti '000) 11
Year          Capital          Maintenance       Vehicle Operating      Net
Cost 21         Costs 31       Cost Savings 41  Benefits
1980              398                                                -398.0
1981              966              17.4             157.7            -825.6
1982              748              53.6             524.6            -277.0
1983              626              87.4             925.1             211.7
1984                              111.4            1275.0            1163.6
1985                              111.4            1371.3            1259.9
1986                              111.4            1483.5            1372.1
1987                               94.0            1353.4            1259.4
1988                               57.8      .      898.9             841.1
1989                               24.0             402.1             378.1
1990                                                 70.0 5/           70.0
Internal economic rate of return      36.06 Z
--------------------------------------------
11 Economic costs in 1982 prices.
21 Includes cost of equipment and operating costs of labor-intensive
brigade, and part of technical assistance and regional buildingsIworkshop
project component costs.
31 Difference between routine maintenance costs of fair gravel road and
earth read.
4/ Based on assumption of average of 35 vpd in 1979 with 102 p.a. growth.
Voc difference between fair gravel road and earth road.
51 Residual value of workshop facilities.



