Document of
The World Bank
FOR O0FICIL USE ONLY
MICRtO1ICHE COPY                                                  Report No. 10175
Report No. 10175-PH   Type: (PCR)
ALEGRE, I / X31755 / T9059/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 1421-PH)
DECEMBER 16, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso
Appraisal Year                 1977      US$1.00 =  7.5
Intervening Years Average      1978     US$1.00 =  7.366
1979     US$1.00 =  7.378
1980     US$1r00 =  7.511
1981     US$1.00 =  7.9
1982     US$1.00 =  8.54
1983     US$1.00 = 11.113
1984     US$1.00 = 16.699
Completion Year                1985     US$1.00 = 18.6
ABBREVIATIONS
AC      -     Advisory Committee
ANTU    -     Area Management Units
ASCs    -     Agricultural Service Centers
BBR     -     Bureau of Barangay Roads
BFD     -     Bureau of Forest Development
CB      -     Central Bank
CLA     -     Certificates of Land Allocation
COA     -     Commission on Audit
CPMU    -     Central Project Management Unit
DAR     -     Department of Agrarian Reform (successor to MAR)
IPCC    -     Inter-Agency Project Coordinating Committee
IRRI    -     International Rice Research Institute
MAR     -     Ministry of Agrarian Reform
MOA     -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOH     -     Ministry of Health
MPWH    -     Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NFAC    -     National Food and Agricultural council
NFAC    -     National Food and Agricultural Council
NIA     -     National Irrigation Administration
NIA     -     National Irrigation Administration
OCPC    -     Office of Compensation and Post Classifications
PCR     -     Project Completion Report
SAR     -     Staff Appraisal Report
SN      -     Samahang Nayon
TA      -     Technical assistance
FISCAL YEAI
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directi Cefefal
Opeiatians Evaluatin
December 16, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: t"roject Completion Report on PHILIPPINES - Rural
Development II (Land Settlement) Project (Ln.1421-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on the Philippines: Rural Development
(Lend SettlAment) Project (Loan 1421-PH)" prepared by the Asia
Regional Office.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 1421,-PH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface D     Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
EasicData Sheet         .   . . .           . . . . . . . . .             . .ii
Evaluation Summary  . ..............................................                vii
ProjectCompletionReport .. ...................                                         1
Background  * . * . . . . . . .  *     * a              .1
Project Description . . . . . . . . . .....  e...                                   1
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   2
Project Costs . . . . . . e . . a           . * v.     .  .     . . a . . X         3
Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . . . . c . .                       3
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . .           *. . . . . . . .                      4
Operating Performatnce .f rm            n e...........e.                            4
Institutional Per formance                       ....................              10
Project Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  12
Annexes
1.  Key Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .                  17
2.  Cost Estimates  . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  18
3.  Seasonal Credit Provided for Various Ctops by Rural Banlcs
as at the end of 1985   . .           .      . .. a                r.. .    19
4.  Term Credit-Achievements  . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  . . . .               20
Appendix
Government's co ments ....    . . . . . . . .   9 . . . . . . . .   .               21
Maps IBRD 12483
12484
12485
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 1421-PH)
PREFACE
This PCR reviews implementation of the Rural Development II (Land
Settlement) Project, for which a US$15.0 million loan (total project cost of
US$32.6 million) was  approved on June 10,  1977.   The project was to be
implemented over a period of five years, with the original loan closing date
being December 31,  1982.   The closing  date was  later extended  twice to
December 31, 1985. US$1.96 million was canceled.
A series of developments during the last year of implementation made it
extremely difficult to obtain complete information on this projec-.   These
included the political events which ultimately led to the overthrow of the
Government in 1986, the reorganization of the main agrarian reform coordinating
and implementing agency, the dismantling of the project management unit before
loan closing, and the neorly complete turnover of officials and staff familiar
with the project following the change of Government. Many project records could
neither be located nor reconstructed, despite the best efforts of current
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) staff.
This PCR was prepared by an FAO/CP mission on the basis of a visit to the
Philippines in late 1988. Given the difficulties mentioned above, the PCR is
based mainly on a review of the relevant Bank documents (appraisal report, loan
agreement, project files and supervision reports), and of the FAO/CP mission's
observations during its visit to Manila and the project sites. The Bank wishes
to thank DAR and the other Government agencies involved, and the FAQ/CP, for
their assistance in preparing this PCR.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the PCR were sent to the
Government on September 25. Comments were received from a former official of the
Central Bank who is now working with the Land Bank in the Philippines, an agency
which was not directly involved in project implementation. These comments have
been included in the report as an Appendix.



- iii -
PROJECT- COM1PLEXION LEEP.RT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL D2-ELOPMENT It (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
(.OAN 1421-PH)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as Z of
expectation   current estimate  aggraisal estimate
Project Cost (US$ million)                    32.6             30.1 /a                 92
Loan/amount (US$ million)                     15.0              13.0                   87
Date Board approval                                           05/17/77
Date effectiveness                               .            10/27/77
Date physical components completed          07/31/82          end-1985
Proportion then completed (Z)
Closing date                                12/31/82          12/31/85
Economic rate of return (Z)                  28 lb       Probably negative
Financial rate of return (2)
Institutional performance                                  Unsatisfactory
Agronomic performance
Number of direct beneficiaries
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT
_Y78  FY9  FY80  PY81  PY82  PY83  PY84  FYS5  1986
Appraisal Eatcmte (USSnil)    1.3    4.6   8.0   11.1  14.0  15.0    .     -      -
Actual (US$nil)                    0.1   0.8   1.9   5.5   9.1  11.4  12.3  12.7  13.0
Actual as 2 of estimate     8      17   24    23   65    76          -     -
Date of fial disbursement         06/30186     Cancellations:   1.96 mil
Principal repsid to (no./day/yr.) (US$ million)



- iv -
U15SIOND DA
Mission Stage       Date       No. of   Man-days   Specializations         Performance                    T7pe of
of PFoiset Cycle  (%olvr)   Persons   infildr  represented /c               Rating /d       Trend J.E    problems
ldent./Prep           1975
Preappraisal         04/76        3           30           *
Appraisal            06/76        4            *           *
Post-Appraisal (1) 08/76         2           42           *
Post-Appraisal (2) 02/77         3           30           *
Subtotal                               102
Supervision 1        08/77        3           36           B/g                   **             **            n.a.
Supervision 2        11177        1            6           2                     **             **            n.a.
Supervision 3        01/78        2           20           B/S                   2               1            P
Supervision 4        06/78        2           10           B/g                   2               1            F/O
Supervision 5        11/78        2            k           B/g                   *              *             n.a.
Supervision 6        01/79        1            4           ?                     ***            ***           n.a.
Supervision 7        09/79        1            7           B                     **             **            n.a.
Supervision 8        12/79        3           42           B/CIE                 ***                          n.a.
Supervision 9        02/80        1            5           g                                                  n.a.
Supervisiou 10       06/80        3            *           E/g                   2              1             P/H/T
Supervision 11       01/81        4           60           B/D/E/F               2              1             M/F/T
Supervision 12       06/81        2           30           8                     *              *
Supervision 13       08/81        3           51           AE/RP                 2              1             M/F/T
Supervision 14       02/82        3           42           A/F/G                 2              1             LA/F/T
Supervision 15       09/82        1            9           A                     2              2             M/P
Supervision 16       07/83        1           10           A                     2              1             F
Supervision 17       02/84        1           10           A                     2              2             F
Supervision 18       10/84        1            9           A                     2              2             F/O
Supervision 19       05/85        2           14           A/E                   2              -             n.a.
Supervision 20       10/85        1            *           A                     **             **            n.a.
Completion 1         10/87        1
Completion 2         11/88        6
Subtotal                               365
Total                                  467
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                          Government of Philippines
Executing Agency                  Central Project Management Unit  (Ministry of Agrarian Reform
Fiscal year of borrower                   Calendar
Name of currency  (abbreviation)                           Peso  (P)
Appraisal year average                    1977             US$1.00 -          7.5
Intervening years average                                  US$1.00 -         10.222
Completion year average                   1987             US$1.00 -         18.6



-v-
TIME RECORDED
Sta&es_of Prolect Cycle         Staff Weeks
LENP2                              43.1
LENA                               67.2
LENN                               5.5
SPN                                206.0
PCR                                16.9
Total                              338.7
*       No data available.
**      Only a Back-to-Office Report was prepared.
No report on file.
/a     Mission estimate based on data provided by Department of Agrarian Reform, Central
Bank and rural banks.
Combined for three project areas.
Les     A - Agriculturalist; B - Agriculture/Organization/Management Specialist; C =
Economist; D - Economist/Procurement Specialist; E - Rural Development Specialist;
F - Project Officer/Marketing Specialist; G - Organization/Management Specialist
1d       Performance Rating:  1 - Problem-free or Minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems;
3 - Major problems.
ig-     Trend:   I - Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating.
if      Types of problems:  F - Financial; M = Managerial; T - Technical; 0 - Other (SPN
Report states tGsecurity situation in Agusan settlement curtailed work."
La      Specialization not known.
ih       PCR mission mounted by FAO.



- vii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 1421-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          This project aimed to assist the Government of the Philippines in the
reformulation and implementation of its land settlement programs, administered
by the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR).   It was the Bank's second rural
development project in the Philippines, and the first operation to give primary
emphasis to rainfed agriculture in mixed upland/lowland areas. Specifically, the
project was designed: (a) to strengthen and support the technical capacity of
MAR to plan and design land settlement programs more effectively; (b) to
accelerate development in three of the older settlement areas through integrated
programs to improve the living conditions and incomes of existing farmer
families; and (c) through implementation in these three settlements, to test the
collective impact of a number of the Government's programs of special relevance
to the rural poor, including village road and small-scale irrigation programs,
cooperative development and agricultural credit, agricultural extension,
demonstration and farmer training systems, rural health and family planning
services.  The three settlement areas selected (Agusan del Sur, Bukidnon and
Capiz) accotnted for about 10% of the aggregate area and about one-fifth of the
population involved in MAR settlements at that time.  The project was to be
implemented over a five-year period, at a total cost of US$32.6 million; the Bank
loan of US$15.0 million was approved on May 17, 1977.
Implementation Experience
2.          Project execution and coordination were entrusted to a Central
Project Management Unit (CPMU), established in MAR and responsible to the
Minister. The CPMU was represented at the field level by three Area Management
Units (AMUs). The Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs), staffed by personnel from
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), were established at each settlement to provide
agricultural extension, farmer training, adaptive research and other services.
The project had a very slow start due to initial delays on the part of the
Government in approving budget allocations and staff recruitment, and prolonged
preparatory works (surveys, aerial photography) for land allocation and titling.
From 1980 the pace of implementation accelerated, and by late 1981 good progress
was reported on land policy development and construction of roads and buildings.
Agricultural and forestry development, irrigation and extension were also
progressing. Nonetheless, the project closing date had to be extended twice to



- viii -
December 1985, to allow for the complqtion of land allocation and other project
activitiesV which in later project years were delayed by bad weather and
disturbed peace and order conditions, particularly at Agusan del Sur.
3.          Following  completion  of major  civil works  at  the  other  two
settlements, Bukidnon and Capiz, the AMUs were withdrawn and the Bank signalled
its concern about a possible rapid deterioration of project services, as no
suitable arrangements had been made for the handover of project facilities and
activities.  Meanwhile, the situation with regard t- peace and order iTI Agusan
del Sur continued to deteriorate to the extent that settlers were reported to
have abandoned their farm lots, at least temporarily, and project roads were
reported to be impassable. The March 1984 supervision mission could not assess
the extent of agricultural development because of problems of access and
inadequate data. In October 1985, shortly before the final revised loan closing
date, the CPMU was dismantled and no project records were kept for the last
quarter of that year. With the overthrow of the Government in early 1986, there
was a complete turnover of the top management and many of the technical staff of
the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR, successor to MAR) and other government
agencies involved in the project.
4.          The completion mission estimates that total project costs amounted
to about US$30.1 million, over eight years (1978-85), or about 92% of appraisal
estimates.  The Bank disbursed US$13.1 million (44% of total costs), and the
unutilized balance of nearly US$2 million was cancelled at loan closing.
Procurement of goods and services essentially followed the procedures set out in
the Loan Agreement, and presented no major implementation problems.
5.          The project was designed with the objective of creating a replicable
pattern of interagency cooperation for settlement development and strengthening
MAR's capability to undertake coordination of such activities, perform specialist
functions relating to land allocation and resettlement, and settlement planning.
The project clearly failed in achieving this objective: MAR proved unable to
handle coordination of the multi-agency project, and the centralized and top
heavy planning and management through the CPMU deterred local participation at
the provincial and barangay levels.   This undermined the ability of the
provincial advisory committees to obtain the cooperation of local authorities and
line agencies. The performance of the main participating agencies (the Ministry
of Public Works and Highways, MPWH; Ministry of Agriculture, MOA; Central Bank,
CB, for the credit component through rural banks; Ministry of Health, MOH; the
National Irrigation Administration, NIA; National Food and Agricultural Council,
NFAC; and the International Rice Research Institute, IRRI) appears to have been
mixed, although difficult to assess in the absence of proper records.   The
impression gained by the completion mission was that, at least in the initial
years of the project, the response of these agencies to project needs was
relatively satisfactory, but the degree of cooperation decreased rapidly as the
CPMU assumed more direct responsibility and authority to execute by force
account.   Consequently, once the AMUs were withdrawn, there was a rapid rundown
in the level of services, particularly the upkeep of project roads. Present DAR
management and staff disclaim responsibility for the performance and results of
the project.



- x -x
6.          Project accounts and financial documentation appear to have been in
good order until end-September 1985, beyond which no further reports were
submitted. The different participating agencies maintained their own accounts.
The budgeting system was cumbersome and often caused implementation delays.
Quarterly progress reports on project activities and achievements were prepared
and submitted to the Bank through the end of September 1985. No terminal report
was prepared by CPMU, although an incomplete draft report was later prepared by
DAR and provided to the completion mission as background information.
7.          Overall, the performance of consultants and contractors appears to
have been unsatisfactory. The services of an external management spec.ialist to
assist CPMU in project planning and implementation proved to be unsatisfa'tory;
these were withdrawn and not replaced. A satisfactory feasibility study was
carried out by an external firm for a follow-up project, and some of the results
were incorporated in another Bank-financed transportation project (SRRIP). A
local firm was employed to carry out an "evaluation design study" and produced
a report which contained much data not directly pertaining to the project area,
and lacking in specific and concrete conclusione. It did not serve as a basis
for post-project evaluation. A number of project works, such as buildings for
housing and other uses, small section of roads, etc., were also contracted out
to local firms by CPMV.   The overall performance of these contractors was
unsatisfactory, both in terms of quality and timeliness.
Proiect Results and Sustainability
8.          Reliable  information  on  project  agricultural  development  and
production results is not available, as no systematic efforts were made to obtain
such data.  Nonetheless, in the course of project implementation, there does
appear to have been some shift in emphasis towards the development of perennial
crops, both because of poor producer prices for sugarcane and abaca and the fact
that credit was becoming easier to obtain on the basis of transitory land tenure
documents issued under the project. It is estimated that a total of about 700
ha of tree crops were established (mainly rubber, followed by coffee with smaller
areas of cacao).
9.          A wide range of benefits were expected from the project, not only
through imple'entation of its productive components, for which rates of return
were calculated at appraisal (17% for Agusan, 31% for Bukidnon and 41% for Capiz,
giving a combined ERR of 28%), but also through the development of infrastructure
and social services. However, the many institutional, political and technical
weaknesses of the project have resulted in an impact whicii is probably too small
to justify the costs incurred. Although quantification i8 not possible due to
the paucity of reliable data, the completion mission estimates that the actual
project ERR is probably negative, and project sustainability is, at best,
uncertain.
Bank Performance
10.         Project preparation was technically deficient; the Bank should have
allowed more time for essential studies and analyses and should have insisted



x 
that more specialized inputs be made available, both to the Borrower's
praparation team end its own preparation and appraisal missions~  The Bank
carried out 19 supervision missions with good staff continuity. However, they
included mainly general agriculturalists and only occasionally specialists in
other fields. Very little specialized staff input was devoted to some of the
most crucial and problematic aspects of the project, including land titling,
civil works (particularly roads), irrigation and credit. While major issues were
raised with the Government by the supervision missions, little pressure appears
to have been exerted to ensure their actual resolution.
Lessons Learned
11.         Although it has not been possible to quantify the results of the
project with any accuracy, it is quite apparent that they fell far short of those
envisaged at appraisal. To a certain extent, this was due to a serious peace and
order situation in the project areas and to a deteriorating economic and
political situation nationwide. On the other hand, there were also flaws in the
design, appraisal and supervision of the project. Lessons which may be drawn
from project results include:
(a)         P-oject implementation commenced with the optimistic assumption that
improved procedures would be put into effect for the issuance of
land titles, or equivalent instruments, shortly after loan
effectiveness (end-1977). The April 1982 Bank supervision mission
reported that it seemed unlikely that completion of land allocation
and titling could be accomplished before the second half of 1983
(i.e., five years after project effectiveness).   This situation
adversely affected the project throughout its implementation period.
The lesson is that resolution of land tenure issues is8- essential
Rrerecuisite  to  the  successful  agricultural  deve_opment  of
settlement pro-jects.
(b)         Some 11 agencies were involved in the project at the national level.
Project execution and its success was also dependent on close
integration and coordination of these agencies at the provincial and
local levels. This proved extremely difficult to achieve, due to
institutional friction and political tensions. The lesson is that
the  difficulties  and  complexities  of  securing  inter-ageny
coordination and multi-disciplinarY prolects should not be
underestimated. and the number of institutions involved in groject
implementation should be keRt to a manageable level.
(c)         Work  plans  and  major  decisions  for  project  activities  were
centralized in Manila and channelled through the CPMU. Although
local participation in inter-agency committees was to be encouraged,
these arrangements proved to be ineffective, mainly, due to the
dominance of MAR, and the increasingly powerful role assumed by the
CPIU. This resulted in lack of interest and cooperation on the part
of the other institutions in project implementation. The lesson is
that in projects of this kind. maximum efforts are needed to find



xi -
workable mechanisms to involve local authorities and the staff of
line agencies in the process of project plannin, and implementaticon.
Also,  inter-agency  coordinating  committees  are  likely  to  be
successful only if the members see them as providing a necessary
forum for substantive decision making. Key appointments (e.g. area
mainagers) from outside the region may not be helpful in this regard.
Further, temporary institutions wholly dependent on project funding
and contract staff, do not contribute to project sustainability.
(d)         Project design proved to be both overly optimistic and, for certain
components, deficient on technical grounds.   The potential for
irrigation and forestry development, as well as for land development
and soil cons-rvation, was seriously overestimated and was based
more on speculation than on detailed field studies. Agricultural
development proposals were also very weak and failed to make
sufficient provision for perennial crops, in spite of the fact that
the terrain at all sites was better suited to this form of
development than to annual cropping.   Project supervision for a
number of major components (land titling, irrigation, etc.) was also
insufficient, and the project faced continuous counterpart funding
problems. The lesson is that poor project Preparation cannot easily
be comRensated during suRervision, and therefore, greater attention
must be given to ensuring the technical and social viability of
projects at design stage, as well as to securing Government
commitments to critical actions before loan approval.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 1421-PH)
Background
1.01        In the mid-1970s, the Government of the Philippines requested the
Bank to assist in the reformulation and implementation of its land settlement
programs, administered by the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR). The resulting
project was the Bank's second rural development project in the Philippines,
following the Mindoro Project (Loan 1102-PH of July 1975), and the first
operation to give primary emphasis to the development of rainfed agriculture in
mixed upland/lowland areas. Identification and preparation were initiated by the
Government in 1975, and then assisted by several Bank missions. The project was
appraised by the Bank in July 1976 and the staff appraisal report (SAR) was
issued in April 1977.
1.02        The project was conceived and designed:   (a) to strengthen and
support the technical capacity of MAR to plan and design land settlement programs
more effectively; (b) to accelerate development in three of the older settlement
areas through integrated programs to improve the living conditions and incomes
of existing farmer families; and (c) through implementation in these three
settlements, to test the collective impact of a number of the Government's
programs of special relevance to the rural poor, including village road and
small-scale irrigation programs, cooperative development and agricultural credit,
agricultural extension, demonstration and farmer training systems, rural health
and family planning services.   Detailed plans were prepared for the three
settlement areas of Agusan del Sur (16,400 ha total, of which 5,000 ha
cultivable) and Bukidnon (38,400 ha total, 6,000 ha cultivable) in Mindanao, and
Capiz (25,000 ha total, 11,000 ha cultivable) in the Visayas, accounting for
about 10% of the aggregate area and about one-fifth of the population involved
in MAR settlements at that time.
Proiect Descrition
1.03        The  project  comprised  both  program  support  (Part  A)  and
implementation of settlement activities (Part B), as follows:
(a)         Part A. Program support to improve the design and implementation of
the   Philippines'   national   settlement   program,   including:
(i) planning and technical studies; (ii) provision of management
support, staff training and communication and transportation
facilities for the CPMU, and staff training for MAR; and
(iii) monitoring and evaluation studies.
(b)         Part B.  The provision of infrastructure, agricultural development
and other services in the three settlement areas, including:
(i) road construction and improvement; (ii) irrigation and drainage;



- 2 -
(iii) forestry development; (iv) other land development; (v) health
facilities, including family planning and nutrition, and water
supply; (vi) service buildings and facilities; (vii) construction
and operation of an Agricultural Service Center (ASC) in each
settlement area to provide agricultural extension, farmer training,
adaptive research and other services; and (viii) marketing,
cooperative development and credit services to settlers.
1.04        Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$32.6 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$11.8 million (36%). The Bank loan
was US$15.0 million.  Implementation was planned for five years, and project
execution and coordination were entrusted to a Central Project Management Unit
(CPMU), established in MAR and responsible to the Minister.   The CPNU was
represented at the field level by three Area Management Units (AMU). The ASCs
were staffed by personnel from the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  The Loan
Agreement was signed on June 10, 1977, and became effective on October 27, 1977.
A subsidiary loan agreement was issued on March 7, 1978, setting out the on-
lending conditions for US$0.9 million of the loan proceeds, from the Government
to the Central Bank of the Philippines, for provision of credit to project
settlers.
Proiect Implementation
1.05        The project had a very slow start due to initial delays on the part
of the Government in approving budget allocations and staff recruitment; by
August 1978,  no participating  agency  except MAR had  received  any  funds.
Prolonged preparatory works (surveys, aerial photography) for land allocation and
titling were also a major cause of project delays. In 1979, supervision missions
noted some progress, and from 1980 the pace of project implementation
accelerated, leading to expressions of optimism by Bank staff that the project
could catch up with physical targets within the original period (i.e, by December
1982).  Following mid-1980, 1,400 certificates of land allocation (CLA) were
issued to settlers, and processing of farm credit applications was initiated.
1.06        By September  1981,  good progress was reported on land policy
development and construction of roads and buildings. Agricultural and forestry
developmertt, irrigation and extension were also progressing. Nonetheless, the
project closing date had to be extended by one year, to December 1983, to allow
for the completion of land allocation and other project activities. By October
1983, another extension of the closing date was considered necessary, this time
for two years to December 1985, because of "exceptionally bad weather and
disturbed peace and order conditions (particularly at Agusan del Sur) which
resulted in very slow progress being made on the infrastructure component".
1.07        Following completion of major civil works in Bukidnon and Capiz, the
ANUs were withdrawn and the Bank signalled its concern about a possible rapid
deterioration of project services, as no suitable arrangements had been made for
the handover of project facilities and activities. Meanwhile, the situation with
regard to peace and order in Agusan del Sur continued to deteriorate to the
extent that settlers were reported to have abandoned their farm lots, at least



- 3 -
temporarily, and project roads were reported to be impassable. The March 1984
supervision mission could not assess the extent of agricultural development
because of problems of access and inadequate data.  In October 1985, shortly
before the final revised loan closing date, the CPMU was dismantled and no
project records were kept for the last quarter of that year.
Prolect Costs
1.08        Due to the difficulty of recovering records after the dismantling of
the CPMU, actual project expenditures have been reconstructed by the Department
of Agrarian Reform (DAR successor to MAR) on the basis of "obligations" related
to each Ministry, but without a precise allocation of the costs among
components1' and/or settlement areas.  After adding the counterpart portion of
the credit component (Central Bank and rural bank contribut:.ons, as well as those
of farmer borrowers),1/ the completion mission estimates that total project
costs amounted to about US$30.1 million, over eight years (1978-1985), or about
92% of appraisal estimates (Annex 2).
Project FinancinR
1.09        Relative to appraisal estimates, the financing of ptoject costs
appears to have been as follows:
Table 1: PROJECT FINANCING BY SOURCE
Appraisal                        PCR
Financial Source            Estimates         (Z)          Estimates         (Z)
-US$ million)-------------------
-  IBRD                      15.0             (46)            13.1        (44)
- Local funds
GOP                    16.6              (51)            16.4        (54)
Central Bank  )                                           0.4         (1)
Rural banks   )          1.0              (3)             0.1      (0.05)
Sub-borrowers )                                           0.1      (0.05)
Subtotal           17.6             (54)             17.0        (56)
Total Project Costs          32.6                             30.1
An undisbursed balance of nearly US$2 million was cancelled at loan closing.
I  Except for those clearly involving one agency, such as the health component under MOH or
that of cooperative development and credit assistance under MA-BCOD.
21  Data provided to the completion mission by the Central Bank.



-4-
1.10        Loan proceeds were reallocated twice, at the Borrower's request.  In
1981, US$2.7 million was shifted from the unallocated category to equipment,
consultancies  and  training,  staff  and  operating  expenses.    The  second
reallocation of loan proceeds was effected in 1983 to cover additional increases
in the costs of civil works and staff salaries, through reductions in equipment,
consultancies and training, and term credit.
Procurement
1.11        There do not appear to have been any particular problems over
procur4ment of goods and services for the project, which essentially followed the
proceaures set out in the Loan Agreement.
Operatine Performance
1.12        Settlement Program SuRgort
(a)         Policy Study.   The main objective of this sub-component was to
develop an acceptable framework for decision-making on the use of
public lands.   It was to include evaluation of competing uses,
establishment of clear criteria for selection and designation of
settlement areas, assessment of the long-term potential for
agricultural development, and the formulation of a viable program
for land management which would reconcile the competing interests of
the various Ministries. After considerable difficulty, a study team
was established, but personality and policy clashes made progress
extremely slow. MAR was mainly interested in the narrower issue of
how to improve the operations of its existing settlement program.
Finally, real progress appeared to have been made as a result of an
inter-agency "Workshop on Public Land Policy" sponsored by MAR in
August 1981.   Critical issues were identified and a series of
recommendations were put forward for Government action. A paper was
prepared and submitted to a special Cabinet Committee for considera-
tion but no guidelines were issued, and with the winding-down of the
project through 1983-85, no further action was taken on this study.
(b)         Feasibility Studies. Feasibility studies by local and international
consultants, for further settlement in existing and/or new areas
were to be undertaken to support a follow-up rural development
project. They were initiated by a joint international/counterpart
team in 1980 after area identification in 1979, and included aerial
photography interpretation and proposals for infrastructure,
agriculture and social services development.   Full studies were
completed on three areas and a partial study on a fourth area.
Surigao del Sur was dropped from the proposed follow-up project as
a result of competing mining interests. The three completed studies
were  in  (i) Wau-Banisilan  in  Lanao  del  Sur,  Region  12;
(ii) Kabankalan in Negros Occidental, Region 6; and (iii) Sultan
Kudarat in Cotabato/Davao, Region 12. These studies were eventually
used as the basis for a World Bank-funded Small Rural Roads



-5-
Integrated Project (SRRIP), rather than for further integrated rural
(settlement) development.
(c)         Management Support.  A Central Project Management Unit (CPHU) was
created within MAR, reporting directly to the Minister, and with
planning, budgetary, financial and supervisory responsibilities.
Short-term contract area managers were appointed to head the AMUs in
each of the three settlement areas, to coordinate the work of the
various functional units dealing with each aspect of settlement
development.    At  the national  level  an  Inter-Agency  Project
Coordinating Committee (IPCC) was established, comprising senior
staff of the 11 agencies expected to be involved in implementation.
A notable absentee on this committee was a representative from the
Bureau of Lands. At the regional level an Advisory Committee (AC),
with line agency representation, was established to advise the area
manager.
Strict adherence to general guidelines and procedural requirements
by the Office of Compensation and Post Classifications  (OCPC)
created considerable problems for the funding and staffing of the
CPMU, which were not fully resolved until 1980. The CPMU, although
initially effective and with strong Ministerial backing, became
isolated within MAR. The AMUs tended to work on their own and did
not  involve the local line agencies  sufficiently.   The IPCC,
although active, did not fulfil its coordinating function or
exercise sufficient influence over the CPMU, particularly on forward
planning and budgetary control. At the regional level, the ACs did
r.ot function; the AMUs implemented most sub-components directly, and
latterly, on force account.
(d)         Technical Assistance and Staff Training.  The main TA input into
project management was the appointment of an internationally
recruited advisor with experience in settlement development.
However, the incumbent took little initiative in developing work
formats and management procedures, and the appointment was
terminated  after  one  year.    The  major  consultancy  for  the
feasibility  studies  was  satisfactory,  particularly  in  its
involvement with the counterpart team.   The consultancy/training
input to the Policy Study was less than satisfactory.
1.13        Settlement Infrastructure.  The provision of infrastructure for the
three settlements was the largest project component (US$9.9 million).   It
consisted of the construction/upgrading of different categories of roads,
communa. irrigation systems, potable village water supplies, and buildings for
agricultural services, health services and staff housing. Data on civil works
achievements were available only through June 1985.
1.14        Road construction did not get underway until lat-a 1978, due to delays
in the release of funds to the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH) and
the late procurement of project-funded equipment. Implementation was largely by



- 6 -
force account, through MPWH and the Bureau of Barangay Roads (BBR). BBR teams
were allotted to each settlement area for village road construction and
maintenance.   Many difficulties were experienced in the initial stages of
construction due to the inexperience of BBR staff in dealing with the high
rainfall conditions of the settlement areas, particularly Agusan del Sur (BBR,
at the time, was a relatively new sub-agency of the MPWH). Several sections of
the roads (20-50 km) were awarded by the project management to Manila-based
domestic contractors whose quality of work, according to local officials, left
much to be desired. Some 1,500 meters of bridges were constructed, as planned
at appraisal, but the quality of construction was apparently poor, some having
collapsed or been swept away by floods within three years of construction. Of
the planned 876 meters of culverts, only 74 meters were installed.  Drinking
water installations were provided to the villagers through tapping of natural
springs and artesian wells, with water being conducted through plastic pipes to
village water tanks for communal use. The achievements for this activity were
in excess of appraisal targets (49 v. 33). The number of water-sealed toilets
installed as 65% of the appraisal estimate (2,100 vs. 3,250), with none in the
Capiz settlement due to unavailability of water.   Buildings for the health
centers (17) and agricultural service centers (3) were on target, but staff
housing (194) and multi-purpose buildings (52) fell short of targets (30% and
69%, respectively) because of problems with contractors over construction
schedules and the quality of work.
1.15        Accomplishments for the irrigation component (3,550 ha communal and
1,450 ha mini-irrigation) were extremely disappointing. The systems (1,400 ha
communal and 500 ha milni-irrigation) env .saged for the Agusan del Sur settlement,
a high rainfall area, were dropped altogether due to drainage problems. The
Capiz settlement was subjected to several surveys and studies for reliable water
sources, which yielded no results; therefore no development took place, except
for 36 ha of mini-irrigation. Only in the Bukidnon settlement were two communal
sites developed (at Kalilangan and Dagumbaan) for a total of 1,481 ha by end-
1984, with an additional area of 639 ha planned for 1985. The status of work on
the latter could not be checked by the PCR mission, but discussions indicated
that only 820 ha were actually being irrigated due to water shortage at
Kalilangan (340 ha irrigated) and the need for additional work at Dagumbaan (480
ha irrigated).
1.16        In physical terms, most of the project targets for roads and bridges
were completed by the end of 1984, with minor balances left for completion in
1985. The data on achievements reported by the CPMU for 1985 and those submitted
by DAR to the mission in 1988 were not entirely consistent, but it appears
certain that very little was achieved in 1985.  The data on overall project
accomplishments, including civil works, are presented in Annex 1.
1.17        Settlement Services
(a)         Laad Titling and Allocation.  The three settlement areas had been
long established before the project, but many of the settlers still
operated under a usufruct system and few (2,364) had received title
to the lands which they occupied. The absence of secure land title



-7-
impeded development because it prevented access to institutional
credit, thereby creating a barrier to investment in fixed assets.
Under the project, land allocations were to be introduced to reflect
income instead of farm size criteria.   Rapid procedures for the
issuance of Certificates of Land Allocation (CLA) were to be
developed, and wider discretionary powers given to project land
allocation officers. Representative land committees were to be set
up in each settlement area to work with land allocation units and to
ensure that local views were taken into account.
Unofficial realignment of plots into more economic units had already
been initiated, but the project commissioned further aerial
photography and re-survey in 1979 to locate actual farm plots. At
the urging of project management and Bank supervision missions, the
Deputy Minister of MAR issued a Memorandum in July 1980 which
detailed simplified procedures, within existing land laws, for
speeding up the issuance of CLAs.  The CPMU was empowered to process
the documentation at land settlement offices in the settlement
areas.  Initial progress was rapid, as only applications from those
settlers cultivating plots with no significant boundary anomalies
were processed.   As  agreed with the Central Bank,  CLAs were
recognized transitory documents for credit purposes. Since the work
of the local firms contracted in 1979 had proven to be inaccurate
full title issuance was to come only later, after a reliable
cadastral re-survey could be completed. Final achievements reported
by the CPMU as of June 30, 1985 were 8,863 CLAs issued,3/ of which
2,608 had received a definitive land title.!' However, records were
not accurately maintained, and with the reorganization of the
Ministry of Agrarian Reform into the Department of Agrarian Reform
and the assumption by DAR of responsibility for the settlement areas
upon project completion, doubt was cast on the validity of the CLAs
issued under the project. At the time of the PCR mission in late
1988, DAR considered that a complete re-survey would have to be
undertaken and each CLA examined before final clearance, applying
the original complex pre-project bureaucratic procedures.
(b)         Land Development and Soil Conservation.   The project sought to
protect seriously eroded lands in the Bukidnon settlement area.
Large transverse bunds were to be constructed giving protection to
some 8,000 ha, and on-farm protection was to be encouraged through
demonstration of erosion control methods.  However, in 1981 this
activity was taken over by an Asian Development Bank-financed
Watershed Development Project to be implemented in the same area.
Soil erosion problems were taken up by the ASC through on-farm
demonstration of contour planting and intercropping, but the work
Including the 2,364 issued pre-project.
±3  Source: "Basic Facts" issued by CPMU, June 1985.



- 8 -
was technically poor, cooperation with the Bureau of Soils was
insufficient, and field staff had no training in laying out simple
contours. Although farmers showed considerable interest, no simple
method was devised for them to determine the contour.  There was
also strong settler resistance to mechanical contour construction,
which led to the dropping of this sub-component.   Ultimately,
conservation practices are reported to have been carried out on only
800 ha of settlers' lands in Bukidnon.
(c)         Forestry Development.  The forestry sub-component was devised to
encourage better land use in marginal areas and to improve the
supply of fuelwood and building materials for the settlers. Some
2,200 ha were to be replanted in Bukidnon and Capiz, and 2,800 ha of
selectively exploited forest in the Agusan settlement area was to be
managed on an improved basis. Small nurseries were to be developed
in all three areas for the supply of forest and fruit tree
seedlings. Cooperation with the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD)
was never established. This led to difficulties in seed supply and
the identification of experienced staff.  A survey of the Agusan
settlement area identified only 300 ha of forest, which were already
being managed by BFD. Development of new forest areas in the other
two settlement areas was far from satisfactory. 613 ha were planted
in Bukidnon and 209 ha in Capiz, but lack of maintenance and fires
in 1981 and in 1983 destroyed most of the planted areas. A total of
nine forest nurseries were established, however, and more than one
million fruit, amen4ty and forest tree seedlings were distributed.
At project completion there was no evidence of any follow-up, and
planted areas are reported to have been abandoned.
(d)         Agricultural Services.  Agricultural Service Centers (ASC) were to
be established with demonstration areas in each settlement, to serve
as a base for a modified T & V extension service.   New crop
varieties were to be screened and new technologies tested. MOA was
to provide overall direction to the ASCs and technical cooperation
was to be established with the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI) and national research institutions. Budgetary difficulties
slowed the start of the program, but IRRI fielded a research
coordinator, trained scientists and assisted with the benchmark
survey. Three scientists were also sent for training to the Asian
Vegetable Research Development Center. With few facilities, initial
research concentrated on identifying "best local farmer practices."
Adaptive research and farmer training covered three main lines: (i)
Packaging of technology trials and extension for annual crops,
including variety, fertilizer, plant protection and weed control;
cropping system studies; and production economics; (ii) problems
not covered by the recommended packages, including soil acidity, low
seed  germination  and  soil  erosion;   (iii)  plantation  crop
development.



-9-
Applied research led to recommendations for lower input use in the
Government's rice and corn promotion programs, introduction of
disease-free rice varieties, and technological packages for other
crops for which no recommendations had previously been available.
For extension, a relatively successful pilot barana-v extension
approach was adopted, which includ,)d training of farmer counsellors
and preparation of field manuals. Less success was achieved with
liming experiments, pre-germination of seeds and the introduction of
contour bunding, due mainly to limited cooperation from agencies
other than IRRI.  Plantation crop experiments were encouraged in
response to the increasing interest shown by farmers after the
apparent alleviation of land titling and credit problems. The most
serious weaknesses in provision of adequate agricultural services
for the settlers included the slow pace of building construction,
which constrained staffing levels; the fact that IRRI training of
field technicians was limited to the two main rice and corn crops;
and poor technical cooperation with both MAR and MOA.
(e)         Credit.  The project provided P 9.0 million of seasonal production
credit (for seeds, fertilizer, plant, chemicals and labor), and
P 13.5 million of medium-term credit for farm investments (work
animals and implements, threshers, crop driers, marketing facilities
and abaca establishment). Credit was to be channelled through the
Central Bank (CB) to specified rural banks in the settlement areas;
prior to the provision of credit, deficient institutional
arrangements in the settlement areas (e.g., concerning debt
collections) were to have been removed and measures taken towards
strengthening the local rural banks.'/  Cooperatives were to be
strengthened to promote rural savings and self-help efforts in the
settlement areas.
The four rural banks together provided about P 6.6 million of
seasonal production credit, principally for rice and corn (as at the
end of December 1985, Annex 3), although precise data were not
available for several of the project years. Capiz Bank, which had
a commendable coverage of 40% of the settlement families and 52Z of
the total credit outstanding for the four banks, encountered
financial difficulties during the last few years of the project on
account of past dues, which made it ineligible to access the
rediscounting facilities of the CB. The most common difficulties
faced by all four banks in extending production credit were the
absence of land titles and limited creditworthiness of project
farmers.
With regard to term credit, the aggregate value of loans granted for
various purposes in the three settlement areas was 95% of the
5I  Kalilangan and Valencia Banks in Bukidnon, Talacogan Bank in Agusan and a new cooperative
bank in Capiz.



- 10 _
appraisal targets, although the purposes were mostly different from
those originally envisaged (Table 4).  The banks reported little
demand for farm support facilities and marketing, and there was a
heavy shortfall under draught animals and implements (75 percent).
Most loans were for plantation tree crops, like rubber, coffee,
cocoa, etc. Changes of purposes were agreed to by the Bank during
supervision missions and the mid-term review. Appraisal standards
of sub-projects financed by banks were generally satisfactory.
Overall, the CB refinanced P 10.4 million of term credit which would
have qualified for P 6.3 million of reimbursement by the World Bank.
Actual Bank disbursements were equivalent to P 5.6 million; no
explanation could be obtained for the shortfall.
(f)         Cooperatives.  During the project period, 288 Samahang Nayon (SN)
were organized with a total membership of 20,850, exceeding
appraisal targets. The SN groups generated savings through various
funds (general, baran.ay savings and barangay guarantee), to the
extent of about P 2.3 million. Refresher courses for cooperative
officers and regular meetings of members were held to strengthen the
cooperative movement.
(g)         Health Services.   Health services were provided  in the three
settlement areas through 19 health centers established under the
project (two in excess of appraisal targets). These centers were
staffed and operated by MOH, and their performance was satisfactory
during project implementation.   The services provided included
medical and dental treatment, immunization, maternal and child
health care, nutrition activities and, to a more limited extent,
family planning.
Institutional Performance
1.18        Ministry of Agrarian Reform  (MAR).   MAR was the key project
institution, responsible for overall project implementation and coordination with
other participating agencies at the national level. The project was designed
with the objective of "creating a replicable pattern of inter-agency coordination
for settlement development and strengthening MAR's capability to undertake
responsibility for the coordination of activities, perform specialist functions
relating to land allocation and resettlement, and settlement planning." At the
outset, and by the admission of DAR in an incomplete terminal report on the
project,61 the project clearly failed in achieving this objective. The reasons
included MAR's inability to effectively undertake the coordination of a multi-
agency project, and a centralized and top heavy planning and management of the
project through CPMU, to the detriment of local participation at the provincial
and barangay levels.   This approach tended to undermine the role of the
provincial adviaory committees in obtaining the cooperation of local authorities
f1 Second Rural Development Land Settlement Project (IBRD Loan No. 1421-PH), Terminal Report
(draft) prepared by the Project Management Service, DAR, 1988.



- 11 -
and line ageiicies, a tendency which was reinforced by MAR's apparent preference
to carry out work on a force account basis rather than to delegate it to other
parties. Area management units (AMUs) in Bukidnon and Capiz settlements were
withdrawn in December 1983, with no arrangements between MAR and the line
agencies to maintain project facilities and services. Following this, there was
a rapid rundown in the level of services, particularly the upkeep of project
roads.   By November 1985 the CPMU was officially terminated.   Present DAR
management and staff disclaim responsibility for the performance and results of
the project.
1.19        ParticiDating Agencies,  The main participating agencies in project
implementation were the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH), Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA), Central Bank (CB) for the credit component (through rural
banks), Ministry of Health (MOH), the National Irrigation Administration (NIA),
and National Food and Agricultural council (NFAC).   IRRI provided valuable
assistance in the conduct of settlement surveys and the training of farm
management staff, research and extension during the initial stages of the
project.
1.20        The performance of the above institutions appears to have been mixed,
although difficult to assess in the absence of proper evaluation. The impression
gained by the completion mission was that, at least in the initial years of the
project, the response of the various participating agencies to project needs was
relatively satisfactory. However, the degree of cooperation and support declined
rapidly as the CPMU assumed more and more direct responsibility and authority to
execute by force account, and without reference to the line agencies, which
eventually withdrew from project activities.
1.21        Accounting and Reporting,  Project accounts were maintained by a
special office of CPMU, which also prepared the financial reports for submission
to the Bank, as required under the Loan Agreement. These appear to have been in
good order until end-September 1985, beyond which no further reports were
submitted. The different participating agencies maintained their own accounts.
The budgeting system was cumbersome and often caused implementation delays. The
Budget Commission released funds to each participating agency with subsequent
allocation to CPMU under "capital outlay".  The funds for current operating
expenditures were allocated through the agencies' regional offices. An auditor
from the Government's Commission on Audit (COA) was assigned for the regular
auditing of the project accounts through 1985.  Annual reports on the project
were issued through the end of 1984.  Quarterly progress reports on project
activities and achievements were prepared and submitted to the Bank through the
end of September 1985. No terminal report was prepared by CPMU, although an
incomplete draft terminal report was later prepared by DAR and provided to the
completion mission as background information for its work (fn. 6).
1.22        Consulting Services.  Overall, the performance of consultants and
contractors appears to have been unsatisfactory, as follows.



- 12 -
(a)         The services of an external management specialist to assist CPHU in
project planning and implementation proved to be unsatisfactory;
these were withdrawn and not replaced.
(b)         A satisfactory feasibility study was carried out by an external firm
for a follow-up project, and some of the results were incorporated
in another Bank-financed transportation project (SRRIP).
(c)         A local firm was employed to carry out an "evaluation design study."
The quality of the study was poor and unsatisfactory to the Bank.
(d)         Another local firm carried out a mid-project evaluation study and
produced a report which contained much data not directly pertaining
to the project area, and lacking in specific and concrete
conclusions.    It did not  serve as a basis  for post-project
evaluation.
(e)         A number of project works, such as buildings for housing and other
uses, small section of roads, etc., were also contracted out to
local firms by CPMU. The overall performance of these contractors
was unsatisfactory, both in terms of quality and timeliness.
Project Impact
1.23        AgriculZural  Production.      Reliable  information  on  project
agricultural development and production results is not available, as no
systematic efforts were made to obtain such data. Due to staffing constraints
and difficulties in the preparation of a survey format, impact assessment studies
fell far behind schedule. An interim evaluation was eventually carried out in
1982 by local consultants (SKR Managers and Advisors Inc.), but it was not
entirely satisfactory as they had to take into account three conflicting sets of
benchmark data. These were the original NFA study in 1977 (on which project
appraisal was based), an IRRI survey carried out for the CPMU in 1978, and a
"dummy run" undertaken by the evaluation design consultant in 1980. The 1982
evaluation was to be followed by an ex-Post evaluation five years later, but this
never took place. Data provided by the ASCs, rural banks and local MOA staff
could not be reconciled.
1.24        In the course of project implementation, there was a change in
emphasis towards the development of perennial crops, because of poor producer
prices for sugarcane and abaca and the fact that credit was becoming easier to
obtain on the basis of the transitory CLAs. From information gathered in the
field, it is estimated that a total of about 700 ha of tree crops were
established (mainly rubber, followed by coffee with smaller areas of cacao).
1.25        Farm Incomes.  In the absence of reliable project data on actual
production, area cultivated and farm sizes and cropping patterns, the assessrent
of farm incomes is very difficult. However, some indications may be obtaiaed
from the SKR consultant's report of 1983, which estimated net farm incomes for
each of the three provinces as a whole.



- 13 -
Table 23 FARMER INCOMES BY SETTLEMENT AREA
Agusan del Sur         Bukidnon           Capiz
Net Farm Income            ------(p)-
* 1 ha                             359               1,388            1,619
1 - 3 ha                      1,644               2,628            3,007
> 3 ha                           2,658               7,907            7,900
Compared with appraisal estimates of incomes to be attained at full development,
ranging from about P 5,400 (upland rice/abaca farm of 5 ha) to P 10,100 (lowland
rice farm of 3 ha) in 1977 prices, data above for farms over 3 ha are less than
satisfactory; however, they may apply to farms which were not covered by the
project.   The only other information which gives some idea of the project's
possible impact on farm incomes was supplied by the rural bank of Talacogon
(Agusan del Sur), based on farm budgets prepared by its staff in 1982-83 before
approving loans for rubber, coffee, cacao and draught animals (rice). According
to these estimates, per capita farm incomes at full development of the
investments financed would have been above the poverty line estimated for that
period by the Bank. However, as the incomes of the farmers who received credit
were not monitored, the completion mission could not determine whether the
potential was realized.
1.26        Non-Agricultural Impact. Project-funded roads and other civil works,
as well as improved health services and village water supplies have had a
positive  impact on the living standards  in settlement areas.   While not
quantifiable, it is commonly believed that the settlers enjoy higher standards
of health services and sanitation, as well as access to drinking water. Roads
provided better access to markets and movement of people and goods. However, a
major concern is the lack of road maintenance, particularly for the baran ay
roads, which were already in a rundown condition in many areas at the time of the
completion mission's visit. It was reported that the roads constructed under the
project in the high rainfall areas of Agusan del Sur, which the mission did not
visit, are impassable, even with 4-wheel drive vehicles.
1.27        Economic Benefits.  A wide range of benefits were expected froL- the
project, not only through implementation of its productive components, for which
rates of return were calculated at appraisal," but also through the development
of infrastructure and social services (health, water supplies, etc.). However,
the many institutional, political and technical weaknesses of the project have
7/ 17 percent for Agusan, 31 percent for Bukidnon and 41 percent for Capiz, giving a combined ROR
of 28 percent.



- 14 -
resulted in an impact which is probably toc small to justify the costs
incurred.!'   Although quantification ls not possible due to the paucity of
reliable data, the completion mission estimates that the actual project ERR is
probably negative.
1.28        Bank Performance. Project preparation was technically deficient; the
Bank should have allowed more time for essential studies and analyses and should
have insisted that more specialized inputs be made available, both to the
Borrower's preparation team and its own preparation and appraisal missions. The
Bank carried out 19 supervision iissions for the project (Basic Data Sheet). The
last substantial one was in June 1985 (six months before termination of the
project), and only pointed to minor problems. A short mission in November 1985
reported "good progress towards producing a PCR document very shortly after the
closing date (December 31, 1985)." As of November 1988, no record of such a PCR
could be traced. The supervision missions had good staff continuity. However,
they included mainly general agriculturalists and, only occasionally, specialists
in other fields. Very little specialized staff input was devoted to some of the
most crucial and problematic aspects of the project, including land titling,
civil works (particularly roads), irrigation and credit. Recommendations for
extending the loan closing date were accepted in the hope of solving the
implementation problems. While major issues were raised with the Government by
the supervision missicns, little pressure appears to have been exerted to ensure
their actual resolution.
1.29        Lessons Learned.  Although it has not been possible to quantify the
results of the project with any accuracy, it is quite apparent that they fell far
short of those envisaged at appraisal. To a certain extent, this was due to a
serious peace and order situation in all three project areas and to a
deteriorating economic and political situation nationwide. On the other hand,
there were also flaws in the design, appraisal and supervision of the project.
Lessons which may be drawn from project results include:
(a)         Project implementation commenced with the optimistic assumption that
improved procedures would be put into effect for the issuance of
land titles, or equivalent instruments, shortly after loan
effectiveness (end-1977). The April 1982 Bank supervision mission
reported: "It now seems unlikely that completion of land allocation
and titling could be accomplished before the second half of 1983"
(i.e., five years after project effectiveness).   This situation
adversely affected the project throughout its implementation period.
The lesson is that resolution of land tenure issues is an essential
prerequisite to the successful atricultural development of
settlement proiects.
(b)         Some 11 agencies were involved in the project at the national level.
Project execution and its success was also dependent on close
it  The completion mission noted that some additional benefits might emerge in a few years when
relatively recent plantings of rubber and other perennial crops became productive.



- 15 -
integration and coordination of these agencies at the provincial and
local levels. This proved extremely difficult to achieve, due to
institutional friction and political tensions. The lesson is that
the difficulties and _complexities of securing inter-agency
coordination in multi-disciplinary projects should not be under-
estimated and the number of institutions involved in project
implementation should be kent to a manageable level.
(c)         Work  plans  and  major  decisions  for  project  activities  were
centralized in Manila and channelled through the CPMU. Although
local participation in inter-agency committees was to be encouraged,
these arrangements proved to be ineffective, mainly due to the
dominance of MAR, and the increasingly powerful role assumed by the
CPMU. This resulted in lack of interest and cooperation on the part
of the other institutions in project implementation. The lesson is
that in projects of this kind, maximum efforts are needed to find
workable mechanism to involve local authorities and the staff of
line agencies in the process of project planning and implementation.
Inter-agency coordinating committees are likely to be successful
only if the members see them as providing a necessary forum for
substantive decision-making.   Also, key appointments (e.g. area
managers) from outside the region may not be helpful in this regard.
Further, temporary institutions wholly dependent on project funding
and contract staff, do not contribute to project sustainability.
(d)         Project design proved to be both overly optimistic and, for certain
components, deficient on technical grounds.   The potential for
irrigation and forestry development, as well as for land development
and soil conservation, was seriously overestimated and was based
more on speculation than on detailed field studies. Agricultural
development proposals were also very weak and failed to make
sufficient provision for perennial crops, in spite of the fact that
the terrain at all sites was better suited to this form of
development than to annual cropping.   Project supervision for a
number of major components (land titling, irrigation, etc.) was also
insufficient, and the project faced continuous counterpart funding
problems. The lesson is that poor project Rreparation cannot easily
be compensated during supervision.   Therefore. greater attention
must be given to ensuring _the technical and social viability of
projects at design stage. as well as to securing Government
commitments to critical actions before loan approval.



- 17 -
ANNEX 1
IEY !HDICATOIIS a
SAR   r it                   Accomplishment at March 31. 1983                Z of  .A Tareat Comoletsd
UARn        UidUon   ap          Total     Agu1an    aurgdnon  rap1z  c otal           Agusan    oukiiono n                aapla  TOta
Population (lo.)
'aailiee in a*ttlemnt
area                          1.700      7.400      4.600    13.700  g  2.200    12.300        5.300    19 Goo
Scttlr/occupcnto                 NS         NS         NS         NS      1.946      3.188      2.870     8.044
Families participatins
in cooperative                   NS         NS         NS         NS      1.737      2.099     2.234      6.070           -          -          -          -
Lead Allocation tNA
LSd t ltG "CuH    -               Ns         uS         NS         uS        684        777      1.167     2.608           -          _          _          _
ClAa Issued                       NS         ES         NS         NS      2.538      2.673      1.611      6.842 Ld       -          -          -          -
goads and Bri_tdp
- tI"r         ads Ei        (20)  /a   100          20        140       (20)  La  94.2       23.0      137.2         100        119        113         98
.nt.ined                                           -               -                  90.6       33.0      123.6          -          -
rana  Road$ Oke)
7tri ci               95         120        75        290       86.8      124.0       89.3      300.1         91        103        119        103
Under conet .upsrs                -          -          -          -       39 8          0          0      39.8                -                -
Maintained                       NS         NS         NS         NS      118.0      324.3      239.0      681.3      681 3
Forces/Accass Road& (km)
wv cuctructo        -14                     20         20         54        9.2        8.9       30.3       48.4         66         45        152         90
Vnder construction                -          -          -          -        1.1          0          0        1.1
Ealotnined                       NS         ES        lHS         NS       15.5        5.4       11.4       32.3
Bridgea (a)
cone-sructed                    193        904        407      1.504    294 58  II 813.2        253.1   1.360.9         153         90         62          0
Under construction                -          -          -          -      54.88          0      170.7     225.6           -          -          -          -
Culverts (a)
-co atructed                     126        750          0        876        5.4  /£    NA        6S.2 L   73.6            4         HA          -          8
Under conetruction                      -          -          -               0          0       8.52          0          -
luilding  and Facilities (unite)
4onetructeo                      54         74         66        194         26         31         19         76         48         42         29         39
Under construction                -          -          -          -          0          0          0          0          -          -          -          _
sC  ruV lins                       I          I          1         3          0          1          1          2          0        100        100         67
Under conasruction                -          -          -          -          I          0          0          1
ASC Eultipuro   Buildince
COfl5tu           Bulig           12        20         20         52         10         16         10         36         83         80         30         69
Under constructou- -                         -          -                     0          0          0          0
Ee1bC entere/37Ations
Cone1P  Contructsd ations         3          8          6         17          5          8                    19        167        100        100        112
Under conetruction                -          -          -          -          0          0                     0          -          -          -          _
Muitijurpose Pavennto
vl e  HtruS                             ES          S aES                17         13         0         30nd
tinder conscructS.on              -          -          -.         -          0          0          0          0--                                         -
Sault tlon {Untt)
6         14         13        33          14        16         19         49        233        114        146        148
Under construction               -          -          -          -          0          0          0          0          -          -          -          -
Ijetsr-sealed Toilets
lanicej1Je                     425      1.673      1.150      3.250        423      1.675          0     2.100         100        100          0         65
Under construction               -          -          -                     0          0          0          0 O
~ (he)
Cost-ructd                  1.400      1.650        S00      3.S00          0      1.481          0      1.481          0         90          0         42
Under construction              -          -          -          -          0        639          0       639           -          -          -          -
Eini-irrgatlon                 300        130      1.000      1.450          0          0         36         S6          0          0          4          2
Poes Devaloeneot (ha)
I1ro IEtItdon                     -      1.100      1 I,100    2.200          0        415        208  b    621 Lb                  36        1          28
Management                   2.800   i      -_                2.800          0          -          -          0          0          -          -          0
WArcultural Extension
a     ns lu  sNvte            a8        14         13         33          7         17        17         4          88         I1         130       117
Farnsr training sessions        "S         NS         NS         NS        101         72         45       218i
Aericultural T*r  Cred_
UdaDoer ot  orr                            NS         NS         NS        340        220         54       618
Amunt (P  00)              5.530.0   4.524.0   2.095.0  12.149.0   5.326.5   4.304.3   1.524.7 11.153.70               80          95         73         9a
ES       R Not  psecifiedi - * Hot opplicable.
a    chiasv   e   bacsed on the CR1D report at Deceabor 30. 1984.
Estiated bcsall. number of famltes (1977).
I 191sushl   urvey date.
Of whicb 2.364 wera issued preproject (Agusan 465. Bukidnon 673 and Capts 1.266).
e Pinsaced under IP/Japan project.
At AguCCn due to strea  flow s=. culvcrts replaced by bridgesl at Capis culverts required.
7 Part of are* included under lltA project at Mageeyeay.
7    Amoat totelly dsetroyed by firu in *id-1983.
Survey revealod only 300 bh  end under IPD jurisdiction.



- 18 -
ANNEX 2
COST ESTINATES
(US$ million)
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     Total
"Obligations" under the
Proiect
Investment Costs
MAR                              3.3       3.6       3.4       1.7      0.4       0.4       0.3      0.3       13.4
MPWB                             1.1       1.9       0.4       1.6      0.1       0.5       0.1      -          5.7
MA-NFAC                          -              -         -        -         -         -         -              -
MA-BCOD                          -                             -             -              -                   -
NIA                              0.1       0.3       neg.     0.1       neg.      0.1       -        neg.       0.6
MOU                              0.2       0.1                -         -         ^         -         -         0.3
Subtotal                     4.7      5.9       3.8       3.4       0.5       1.0      0.4       0.3       20.0
Recurrent Costs
MAR                               1.0       1.5       1.4       1.0      1.0       0.5       0.3      0.1        6.8
MPWH                              0.1       -         -        -         neg.      -         -         -         0.1
MA-NFAC                           neg.      0.1       0.1      0.3       0.3       0.3       0.2          )      1.4
MA-BCOD                           -         0.1       0.1      0.1       O.1       neg.      neg.     0.1)       0.4
NIA                               neg.      neg.      neg.     neg.      0.1       neg.               neg.       0.1
MOB                               0.1       0.1       0.1      0.2       0.2       -         -         -         0.7
Subtotal                      1.2       1.8       1.7      1.6       1.7      0.8       0.5       0.2        9.5
Total "Obligations"                  5.9       7.7       5.5       5.0      2.2       1.8       0.9      0.5       29.5
Local Contributions to
Pro1ect Credit Comnonemt               -       -                  nee.      0.3       0.2       0-1      nem_    0.6
Total Project Coats                  5.9       7.7       5.5       5.0      2.5       2.0       1.0       0.5      30.1
la    DAR figures were converted from Pesos to US$ by applying yearly average exchange rates during the period
1978-85.
1k    Source:  Central Bank of the Philippinee
Note: neg. a negligible.



- 19 _
ANNX 3
SEASONAL CREDIT PROVIDED FOR VARIOUS CROPS BY RURAL BANKS AS AT THE END OF 1985
(P ' 000)
Name of         Irrgiated Lowland Rice   Rainfed Lowland Rice             Upland Rice                   Corn
Rural Bank              No. of                    No. of                    No. of                    No. of
(ha)   farmers Amount  (hs)    farmers Amount  (ha)    farmers Amount  (ha)    farmers Amount
Bukidnon
Kalilangan      104      104     312       26       26      78       72       60     180   1.135       290   1,702
Valencia        150       57     359       33       18      80       25       10      60       65        7      79
an del Sur
Talacogon        93       55     279       11        5      34        -        -       -        -        -       -
Cooperative
Bank            150      100     350   2,198   1.358   2,290          -        -       -      539     484      793
Total         497       16   1.300   2.268   2,407   2.482         97      70      240   1.739      781   2.574
Source:  Central Bank of the Philippines



- 20 -
ANNEX 4
TERM CREDIT - ACHIEVEMENTS
Targets       Achievements          Variations
Investments                                    Units    Amount   Units    Amount   Units    Amount
( p '000)          ( P '000)          ( F '000)
Draught snimals and implements                  1,890    5,686       277    1,409   -1,613   -4,277
Chain saws                                         50      226         -         -      -50      -226
Mechanical threshers                               60      883         4        95      -56      -788
Mechanical driers                                 111    1,058         -         -     -111   -1,058
Marketing transport and facilities                  5      750        12        42       -4      -708
Abaca processing/marketing facilities              42      906         -         -      -42      -906
Plantations:
Abaca (ha)                                    1,000    2,000         -        -   -1,000   -2,000
Rubber (ha)                                       -        -       187    4,312      +187   +4,312
Coffee (ha)                                    200       700       682    3,868      +482   +3,168
Cacao (ha)                                                           8      158        +8     +158
Cattle fattening                                    -        -        41       88       +41       +88
Others                                              -        -        27    1,176       +27   +1,716
Grand Total                                       12,209             11.688                -54
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines.



-A21 -                            APPENDIX
LANDBANK                                                         Page I of 3
NovemDer 20, 1991
Mr. Granam Donaldson. Chief
Agriculture and Human Develoments Division
Oorations Evaluations Duoartment
Washington D. C. U.S.a.
Dear Mr. Donaldsone
In  reoly to your letter  Oatoe  Sootember 25, 1991 which  was
referred to us by Mr. Vistant we are Dplased to submit Land3ank's
comWents  on  the draft Project ComolItion ReDort for  the  Rural
Duvelooment II (Land Settlement) ProjeCt.
We shall aoorwciate recelving.a cooY of your final report on
said Drojeet.
Very truly yours.
NEN   H~ .VERRAN
Asst. Vice Prsildent
Program Lencrinq Dwoartment
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
319 8Sn GflJ. Puyt Ave. Ext.  P.O. Box 1311
M&Ut4 Metru Mala      Cabl *LANOBANK
Tet Nos. 1441i to 21



22 -                          APPENDIX
Page 2 of 3
0 LANDBANK
F  o  r i   The A"istant Vice Presidnt
Pt"MrIMM Lending Deaartmnt
F r a ^ W   The- Beioi  Vice Pres5dunt
F O       /  R  G E
Subject :  Cc_am.nes  on  the  Project  Caampltin  Report ERural
Deveome,,t Project 1I - Loan No. 1421 PH)
D a t e     Nove*r 113, 1991
)lea5e f inc attached. s5eoe comments on the above subJect.
Since Land Bank did not havl& any direct particioation in the
project. we solicited afmonts lroem Mr. Le&0olldo J. fMaq0ale who
hanoened  to  be involvea in proiect imolomentation when  he  was
still  with SE  III of lCentral Bank.  Nevertheloess, we share  the
broad views eontained in the attached comments.
ILIMIDA L.E. G4
LAND ISANK OFT1HE PHILIPPINES
31IS.n.G3J.YPuAv*..ex P.O. Bo;c 3ll
M&U& M.o Minu        Cable 'LANDBANK
TLHs6l1a 4¶1 to 21



23 -                          APPENDIX
LAN DBANK                                               Fage 3 of 3
CE MMWS NW OTER PREIVED LESSONS FROM  RJRAL DEVELOPMENT I 
(LAND SETTLEMENT PRWECT) PROJECT - LOA  NO.  1421 PH
1. The oroblem associated with oether±no prAmarv informatlon from
key  officers who were resoonsible for orolect implementation  is
also  true  for the credit commmnnt.  The Director of  SES  IIl,
Cwntral  Bank  (Mr.  Manuel  Santos)  who  DarticiDated  in  loan
neotiations died durinie the orotect aolementtati0  period.   His
succ5sor, Ms. Consclacion Odra. retired from  the  service  in
1989.  Perhaos PCRs should be undertaken as soon as cossible  to
catch uo with senior officers responsible for implementation  who
mostly mav tbe near retirement ace.
A  substantial portion of the comments herein were  orovided
by former Asst. Director of SES 111, Mr. Leoooldo J. Magpale. who
oarticipated  oartly  in project supaervision from 1?7B  to  198t5
Mr. Magpale transferred to Land Bank in 1989.
2. The  list  of elioible projects under  the  credit  component
should have been expanded thru a continuous study of viable
projects  in  the  area.   This  activity  was  nOt   undertaken.
Flexibility in adding promising agribusiness ventures can enhance
responsiveness of the credlt oroject and speed up tho draw down
of project funds.
3.  The  slow resonse of both rural banks and  bneliciaries  in
financing  new  projects  can be a  natural  consequence  of  the
undwroeveloped inlrastructures and market during te early stages
of implementation. Considerino also the limited capacity of rural
banks to dispense term credit, it could help in future Prooroms
to expand the number and types of credit channels in the  project
area. Todav, conduits consisting of develvoment bankS and Land
Bank  field  offices near the project site may  De  harnessed  to
Drovitde  a  wlder  network  for extendingE  credit.   As  much  as
possible.  selected  credit channels should  be  asse5sed  during
brojvcW  DreDaratlon and stronger commitments should be  solicited
to ensure active oarticipation of Selected lendlng institutions.
4. Selection and assionment of project staff should as much as
possible be taken frop; organic career personnel of implementing
institutions.   This  oftion appears to be a better  strategy  in
order  to:  (1) minimize' DrCoblems related to retention  of  staff
after  oroJect  completion: (2) orovide  orOotion  to  deservino
officers:  and (3) ease of relocating staff to other  departments
after  tne  oroject.  Personnel commitment to the  orWect  seems
stronger  if  taken  from  existino  staff.   Delays  in  project
enecution  is also avoided when oersonnel turnover ir. keot  to  a
minimum.
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
319 Sen. Gil J. Puyz Ave. Exl. P.O. 3ox 1311
Mact. MSaro MHiha    Oabe ^LANDBANK'
To. No& 1849411 to 21



125150'        1otme 1_.A7..  ,_ >D                 R        2' o
DANIBZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR '                                                 4
*,                    ~~~~~~~~PO5518LE FUTURE'-              
.I.  '   tRRIGATION PROJECT,  ,                        . d      b.                        ' 
-8 35 ',.  -  8-35'-
Gudolu                         =pXA                                                        
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Bc BlwS:c    ^ah-                                                          
IM f t J       AcTr          nIo
f7,;-  I-Z.                                                                                LuZOrK \N'   /  jJI
t  }  ' 'J   \j&t       ,tBurgoloN                              ^ z. :~~~~~~~~~N- VIC ARTAENTE  IL
So~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
. PROPOSSE ~  ~    ~     ~                                                                                                 4 .     " .3;-'rG d 
700HA ~ ~ ~ ~ - CJ---I-i7                      4 
~~ ,          z t-.7,7        1  Xc5Xi                                             .          AGU5AN   5ETTLEMENT AREA 2
- gi                   // Freosibility St Sy ARAre
Go'zO                                             HEADQUAR/TE-RSro  RodudrCnsrc
(3100 HAIM|A~~                                ~~                                     ~                       Ira0ks
Talocopon                   nscyawan~~~~~~~~~~Klo71
250 KA                      an~12-50
oA  _,  -RI
I      r
Fe  ('Wt S   y  ra
Not.onal Roo(j (Designate)~1
835                                                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ntoo  od  ne  osrco
toBaIsBStteenoAeaBondr
e goons ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Mn,mlBonoe
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                     
I-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 12484
124-00'                                                                                                      NOVEiASER I'9171
New Mendes
To  011'z\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Dom lCi 8-z   \t ,.oroI                                                                                  Nahowon
I  _ag                * *    ;                          ~~~~~~~         ~        ~       ~~~Now Eden  @
t~~~~~140 /@ )PQ>0{       i           \>pA                                        l                                               Ou
La\|l    ^e\<songy   0  Baro nRoxosy od
LUO                                                                                                              SettemenUAAe  Boudar
Emboris                              ... < IGATION                                               M         Boundaries
Bar|  XMoccopa o            r                    :
[ 2 va   t                    .. S                                 PHILiPPINES~~~~~~~~~~o i  2 3 
AREA OF     r (                                                      BUKIDNON  SETTLEMEA R
l~~t                                              y\inPopos  Lriawaion rs
MINANA                                                 K |PANGAibsilSAN
7z.  belJ2t¢ ,1 ...... t .In ,1.Euntopr.ss. .....-O,v     ainlRa
PlpG' fI..V/ItN .t aTPrnerb- /l   t^rn' Qc>r   ..N
bblRib:4A;i{taaIpl¢J¢ ~ ~~~~~           ha% t    \90   a. \               E0  c.|                                  rvna   od
_                     -Ss~~~Td,ionsghn<                                                            acnc  od
v            LU^JN         -                                       7         g                 }                      -    -     unsctpl Eiounories 
KALILANGAN   ~     ~    ~    ~             MsbKom7rr
s   '                                /y                                         M, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PILIPINE
:',,'~~~~~~~~RUA                                                        DEEL PM N                 PROEC
ArEf~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~UKDO  SETTLEMENT ARE
4 1.  ____'_                                                                       S        .        ..L mpn.sc



122 45'                                                               122'50u                                                              122' s
.WZON
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao
i . '  '                                        A                                          [                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mcncyut PI
AREA OFW
,  . ,,  REiXOfb>P., ?,  .                                  AIAFL0   4                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Bongbon3s 
.. 120'                                                                                                                                                                                      I ' _20'-
.ttMlNDANAO                                           \  dz  IRRIGATMA  oN
F       S_->  3 anAntonio
-                                                     aCcic:~~~~~~~           ~       ~~        ~      ~~~~rafyc                                 Quin(                   u i    g
The b-rP -   sI - . h,,  d., m  .- "'I.
m,ph.  .;,,d o' a. p, r,,    ,   ...........   , h a  _ ,Cnp
hAWd 6.eA and "aalaa
/  ~       ROJECT$          QUARTERO
PHILIPPINES
Lc           c>_                                                                                             /                           RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ToDaao;oood      -N-           9                                                                                                                                         CAPIZ  SETTLEMENT AREA
f     Proposed Irrigation Areos
Ariuwon                                         i                                   -    FeasIbility Study Areas
-11 ,5 f X > - ! .t 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provinciol Roodis                                                                                                             11Fl.4-
A                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Barangoy Roads
[onot  ~     -/Roads to be improved
---New Road to be Constructed
----Tracks
Agj  .,t                                                                    Rivers
__0                 *            /                                         Settlement Area Boundary
,,     krlbeol  r lt D " 400 ho    1 .  /   f      -^--   Municipal Boundaries
A                           t                             J _Pv / N / Prov,ncaal Boundary
0       1      2       3       4      5
o                       2           3
I                        
122-14522So'12  To Sn Roloel                                                                                                               1    S5
tsr4                                                              .   I2 Io                                                                                                                -o *



