Document of                                 T
The World BankRTU                             I
FILE COPY                                                            RETURNT                 |
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY          |REPORTS DESK
Report No. P-2061-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
rHE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
April 28, 1977
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =  Pesos 7.50
US$133.00   =  Pesos 1,000
US$133,000  =  Pesos 1,000,000
ABBREVIATIONS
DAR     - Department of Agrarian Reform
CPHU    - Central.Project Management Unit in DAR
DA      - Department of Agriculture
DH      - Department of Health
DLGCD   - Department of Local Government and Community Development
DNR     - Department of Natural Resources
DPH     - Department of Public Highways
NIA     - National Irrigation Administration
NGA     - National Grains Authority
NEDA    - National Economic and Development Authority
CB      - Central Bank
DRBSLA  - Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan
Associations in CB
BC      - Budget Commission
ASC     - Agricultural Service Center
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
1975:       July 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975.
1976:       July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1976.
From 1977:  January 1 to December 31, 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES FOR A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
(LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $15.0 million to
help finance a Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project. The loan
would be made at an interest rate of 8.2% and for a term of 20 years including
four and one-half years of grace. The Government would relend $900,000 of the
proceeds of the loan to the Central Bank under a subsidiary loan agreement on
the same terms as the Bank loan for term credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in April/May 1975 and
its report, "The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, Basic
Economic Report" (No. 1095a-PH of May 5, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366). Paragraphs 3-16 below are an
updated summary of that report. Annex I contains country economic data.
3.        During the 1960s, the economy grew in real terms at an annual rate
of about 5-6%. However, the rate of growth was less than the level that
might have been achieved if the considerable natural and human resources
of the Philippines had been exploited more effectively. Moreover, the
benefits of growth were distributed relatively unevenly. As the population
and labor force continued to grow rapidly, unemployment rose. Low levels of
taxation accentuated these problems and resulted in inadequate public invest-
ment in necessary infrastructure and social services. A relatively weak
export performance combined with a failure to reduce the import dependence of
domestic industry resulted in a steady deterioration in the balance of
payments position.
4.        During 1970-72, the authorities adopted policies of monetary and
fiscal restraint in order to lay a firm basis for future growth. With
assistance from the Consultative Group for the Philippines, they succeeded in
improving substantially the maturity structure of the external public debt.
Real GNP during that period increased at about 5% a year. In 1972, the
Government initiated a series of social and economic reforms including
an agrarian reform program, tax reforms, and an administrative reorganiza-
tion.
5.        In 1973, there was a sharp increase in the level of economic
activity in the Philippines and the growth in real GNP doubled to 10%.
/1 This is the same discussion of the economy as that in the President's
Report for the Fourth Rural Credit Project (P-2021-PH) of March 24, 1977.
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the perfomance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclced without World Snk authoriaton.



- 2 -
This upsurge was led by the international commodity boom, which resulted in
higher export incomes, a strong recovery in agricultural and industrial
production for the domestic market, and an expansion in public and private
investment.
6.        Like most countries, the Philippines was profoundly affected by
the events in the world economy that began with the marked increase in the
prices for food and petroleum in late 1973. With international trade the
equivalent of almost half of its GNP, the Philippines was quite vulnerable
to the impact of world inflation, the increase in oil prices, and the pro-
longed recession in the industrialized countries. While adverse effects of
the recession were cushioned somewhat in 1974 by a modest improvement in the
external terms of trade, the Philippines was more seriously affected in 1975
by the continued rise in import prices and reduced demand for Philippine
exports. While the international economic situation has made it difficult
for the Government to realize its objective of accelerating the rate of
development, GNP in 1974, 1975, and 1976, nevertheless, grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 6%.
7.        Agricultural production has grown at an average rate of 3.2%
per year during the 1970s, a period which has been characterized by
unusually adverse weather conditions. Rice production increased by 25%
in 1973/74, but because of damage by typhoons, grew by only 1% in 1974/75;
the Government had to import 200,000 tons in the first half of 1975 to ensure
adequate stocks. However, the rice harvest in 1975/76 was very good due to
favorable weather conditions and during this period the Philippines was vir-
tually self-sufficient in rice. The Government continues to give the highest
priority to further increasing agricultural production and has initiated a
number of programs designed to expand the use of fertilizer, irrigation and
supervised credit. It has also intensified efforts to expand the social
services needed in rural areas, including rural electrification, health and
family planning services, and village road and small-scale irrigation projects.
8.        Although progress has been slower than initially planned, the
Government has made some progress with its agrarian reform for the nation's
one million tenant farmers who grow rice and corn. By September 30, 1976, the
Government had issued Certificates of Land Transfer to 224,000 of the
424,000 tenants on holdings of over 7 hectares; thus, title to 390,000
hectares of the total 825,000 hectares of farms occupied by such tenants has
been transferred. The Government has raised the cash portion of the com-
pensation package to landlords to reduce their resistance to land reform,
but strong administrative efforts will be necessary to ensure continued
progress in the implementation of the program.
9.        Industry accounts for almost 30% of net domestic product, one third
of total fixed investment and 15% of total employment. Industrial production,
which grew by 12% in 1973, was adversely affected in 1974 and 1975 by the
worldwide economic slowdown and the depressed demand for Philippine exports.
As a result, industrial production increased by only 4% in 1974 and 5% in
1975. Stepped-up public sector spending for infrastructure development and



- 3 -
other priority projects has contributed significantly to sustaining the
higher level of domestic activity in 1976, especially in the construction
industry. The longer term prospects for industrial growth are favorable
because of the natural and human resource endowment of the Philippines and a
very active private sector.
10.       The Government has made significant progress in increasing public
investment. The ratio of public investment to GNP is currently over 4%,
having risen from 1.8% in FY72./1 The Government has also implemented a
series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in tax administration.
These reforms, aided by the increased economic activity, the boom in export
incomes, and domestic inflation, resulted in a 36% increase in national
government tax revenues in FY73, and an estimated 47 percent in FY74. The
ratio of national government tax revenues to GNP has increased from an
average of 9% in the early 1970s to about 12% during the period FY74-76.
11.       Significant financial reforms have also been introduced.    At the
beginning of 1976, the Central Bank issued circulars designed to help ration-
alize the level and structure of deposit and lending rates; deposit rates
were raised for the second time in 18 months; long-standing statutory ceilings
on the long-term lending rates of banking institutions were increased from
12-14% to 19% per annum; and the ceilings on short-term lending rates were
raised. Efforts were also made to control short-term money market operations
and to strengthen the organized banking institutions. These actions should
help to improve the mobilization and allocation of domestic resources in the
Philippines.
12.       In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines. The increase in prices was caused by the large increase
in liquidity that came with the export boom in 1973/74, and by a number of
cost-push factors, including the higher rate of world inflation. To deal
with this problem, the Government adopted contractionary monetary and fiscal
policies, and attempted to reduce the impact of inflation on consumers by
subsidizing such essential goods as wheat, imported rice, and cooking oil.
The annual inflation rate fell from 35% in 1974 to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976.
13.       On the external side, Philippine's balance of payments benefited
considerably from the international commodity price boom during 1973. High
prices for the country's chief exports, including coconut products, sugar,
copper and wood products, resulted in a 70% increase in export earnings
and a current account surplus of about $550 million. Since mid-1974, the
external trade position has deteriorated, due to the sharp increases in the
/1 Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.



- 4 -
prices of oil and other imports, less favorable prices for Philippine exports,
and reduced volume of some exports resulting from the downturn in the econo-
mies of the Philippines' main trading partners. As a result, current account
deficits of about $900 million in 1975 and about $1,000 million in 1976 were
incurred. The current account deficits have been offset by direct foreign
investment, inflows of medium- and long-term loan capital, the use of IMF
facilities and some short-term borrowing by the Central Bank. External reserves
were about $1.2 billion at the end of 1976, equivalent to four months' imports.
Assuming continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a reasonable
maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt
of the Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits, as the
ratio of debt service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average
about 16-17% during the rest of this decade. At present, the Bank/IDA share
in total debt outstanding is about 17% and its share in debt-service is
about 4%. These shares are expected to increase somewhat in the years ahead.
14.       Substantial foreign assistance will be essential to help finance the
large investment expenditures which will be necessary for the country's develop-
ment. In order to ensure that disbursement of external assistance reaches
levels commensurate with the level of development expenditures which will be
required during the latter part of the decade and that debt service obligations
remain within reasonable limits, total commitments of official assistance will
need to be maintained in real terms at least at the annual level of about $500
million which was achieved in 1974. The Consultative Group for the Philippines
at its meeting in Paris on June 15 and 16, 1976, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippine Government to seek official aid commitments of
about $600 million in 1976 and $700 million in 1977. Total new commitments of
public and private medium- and long-term capital are estimated to have reached
$2 billion in 1976 and need to be maintained at approximately this level
through 1980.
15.       Despite the slowdown in the growth of the economy, which is pri-
marily a result of worldwide economic conditions, the Government remains
committed to regaining the growth momentum, which began in 1973, to provide
for a continued increase in incomes and employment. Both the Philippine
Government and the Bank's Basic Economic Report estimate that it should be
possible in the longer term for the Philippine economy to grow in real terms
at a rate of about 7% per annum provided that good economic management
continues and international economic conditions improve. High priority must
be accorded to expanding employment opportunities, because unemployment
and underemployment are still high and the labor force continues to grow
at 3% a year. Continued attention must also be given to expanding the
Government's effective family planning program to reduce the rate of growth
of the population and the labor force.
16.       The Government is pursuing a development strategy which focuses on
rural development with emphasis on food production, accelerated industriali-
zation, both in capital-intensive resource based industries and labor-intensive
export industries, and a substantial expansion in public sector investment in
infrastructure to support the growth of the productive sectors. In support



of these objectives, the Government plans to continue its efforts to increase
public revenues, to strengthen the capacity of public sector agencies and to
foster the growth of exports. The Government recognizes that the increased
cost of petroleum and other imports cannot be financed indefinitely by borrow-
ing abroad, and it is actively encouraging both local and foreign investors to
expand productive investments. It will, however, take time for Government
programs to have an impact on the balance of payments, and the Government is,
therefore, seeking increased support from the international financial community
to assist in the financing of its development effort. The Government's
development program will continue to require foreign resources in addition to
the capital which would become available for the financing of the foreign
exchange component of development projects. Some financing of local costs is
justified, especially for projects of economic and social importance which
need only limited amounts of foreign exchange.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       By May 1, 1977, the Philippines had received 43 Bank loans /1 (of
which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,113.7 million, net of cancellations. About 40% of Bank lending ($401 million)
has been for infrastructure projects in power, transportation, and water supply
and another third ($355 million) has been for agriculture. Of the remainder,
about $250 million has been for industry and about $108 million has been for
social sector projects in education, population and urban development. There
has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-financed projects in
the last four years compared with experience in the 1960s, when there were
serious problems caused by a shortage of peso counterpart funds and poor
administration. All ongoing projects are now being implemented reasonably
well. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of M4arch 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. About
one third of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and another third would be for needed basic
infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power. The
amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, population
and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account for
nearly 20% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be for
industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs
of small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid growth
/1 A loan of $50 million for the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Proj-
ect, and a loan of $25 million for the Provincial Cities Water Supply Proj-
ect are scheduled to be considered by the Executive Directors on May 3, 1977.



- 6 -
in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a significant
expansion in public investment and both the ambitious Philippine development
program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed to make
good past neglect and to meet future needs. Bank lending totalled $165.1
million in FY74, $208 million in FY75 and $268 million in FY76 compared to
about $30 million a year in the preceding five years.
19.       This is the seventh loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY77. A loan for a power project may be ready for presentation within the
next six weeks.
20.       As of March 31, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $79 million for investment in 14 projects in the fields of devel-
opment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum
products, nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and
edible oils. Of these investments, $27.4 million had been sold, cancelled
and repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $51.6 million, including $0.6 million
undisbursed. A Regional Mission for East Asia was established by IFC in Manila
on April 1, 1977.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR AND LAND SETTLEMENT
The Rural Sector in the Philippines
21.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one-third of gross national product, one-half of total
employment, and nearly three-quarters of commodity export earnings. Over
70% of the 9 million hectares of land under cultivation is currently used for
the production of cereals, of which rice and corn are the most important.
The remaining land is taken up by the major export crops: sugar, coconut,
abaca, pineapple, and tobacco.
22.       Although there has been a substantial change in the terms of trade
in favor of agriculture in recent years, the problems of poverty and income
distribution continue to be particularly acute in rural areas; of the 15
million people in the bottom 40% of the income scale, 12 million live in
rural areas. The Government has initiated a number of programs designed to
assist the rural poor. These include the Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan
credit programs to support rice and corn production respectively, increased
production of commercial crops for export, expanded irrigation, development of
forest resources, and livestock and fisheries production programs to reduce
imports and raise local nutrition levels. The success of many agricultural
programs will depend on increased use of high yielding seed varieties, ferti-
lizers and agro-chemicals, and the provision of adequate credit and other
supporting services. An effective program to help overcome the agricultural



- 7 -
problems in areas where mixed and upland farming are practiced would also
contribute significantly to increasing and diversifying agricultural produc-
tion and improving the living standards of low income people. The performance
of the agricultural sector will be crucial in determining whether the drive
towards rapid and more equitable income expansion succeeds.
Land Resources and the Settlement Program
23.       The rapid growth of the population during the past 25 years, com-
bined with the gradual decline in the amount of new land available for
cultivation, has created serious problems for the Philippines. Income dis-
tribution among the rural population has been deteriorating, and the average
farm size and value-added per laborer have been declining. By the end of the
1950s, most of the readily accessible land in major river basins and lowlands
had been brought under cultivation, and as a result the overall rate of land
expansion has slowed from 3% per annum in the 1950s to less than 1% per annum
in the 1970s. The pressure on the agricultural land base of the Philippines
is likely to increase for at least another 20 years and it is estimated that
the population dependent on farming for their main source of income will
increase from about 19.5 million in 1975 to about 22 million in 1995. This
additional population will need about 2 million ha of new land.
24.       Because the Philippines does not have a complete inventory of lands
and mapping is inadequate, it is not possible to estimate with great accuracy
the potential for future land development and settlement./l Most of the sites
suitable for new settlement development on public lands are on the approximately
9.5 million ha of land that is yet to be classified, which is nearly one-third
of the entire land area of the Philippines. Land and forestry resources in some
of these areas have already been severely depleted as a result of logging
operations and spontaneous settlement. Development of these lands for
permanent settlement will require careful planning and land management, as
well as improved and locally adapted agricultural technologies and improved
infrastructure.
25.       Historically, land was settled by unplanned spontaneous movements
of landless migrants. Although there has been a government program of
organized settlement and development of public lands since the 1930s, most of
the present settlements were originally opened up in the mid-1950s. The
program has been administered since 1971 by the Department of Agrarian Reform
(DAR) and it presently has 34 settlements under its jurisdiction extending
over about 700,000 ha of land with a population of about 400,000 people.
/L The Agricultural Sector Survey of the Philippines (39a-PH), dated Mlay 2,
1973, concluded that up to 2.5 million ha could still be available for
cultivation, including about 1 million ha of "imperata" grasslands that
are difficult to rehabilitate. The International Labor Office (ILO)
report, "Sharing in Development," 1974 indicates higher figures. Most
of the remaining large tract of cultivable land appear to be in the
Cagayan Valley in Northern Luzon, and in the Agusan Valley, and other
parts of Mindanao Island.



8 -
About two-thirds of this population are registered settlers, the remainder
being either descendants of original spontaneous settlers or occupants of
unclassified land. About 75% of 'he total land area is in settlements of
25,000 ha or more; the smallest is 1,000 ha and the largest 100,000 ha.
26.       Progress has been slow because the land settlement program has
suffered from inadequate management and resources. Few of the older settlements
have been fully developed and work on newer areas has been delayed until the
older areas have been completed. The program has lacked an overall planning
framework, which would provide for the systematic utilization of new land and
for effective development planning in each individual settlement. The work of
the settlement field teams is largely confined to ongoing routine management
and operations, while more substantial development work is seriously hampered
by the lack of adequate budgets, poorly trained and inadequate numbers of
personnel, and insufficient equipment and facilities. As a result adequate
services and infrastructure have not been provided, the settlement areas
operate well below their full productive potential and the conditions of
life and income levels of the settlers are below acceptable minima. The
Government is fully aware of these problems and has requested Bank assistance
to help improve the settlement program.
The Settlement Areas
27.       Three existing settlement areas have been selected for development
under the proposed project to demonstrate on a pilot basis the improvements
which can be brought about in the design and implemenation of DAR's settlement
program.  These settlements were selected because they are representative in
terms of the terrain, current subsistence farming practices and agronomic
potential of many settlement areas in the Philippines. The approach to the
agricultural problems of these settlement areas has the potential for wide
application in large neighboring areas with similar problems. In two of the
settlements, Bukidnon and Capiz, the objective of the project would be to
lay the basis for full integration with the surrounding areas, thus closing
the settlement phase of these two areas within the life of the project. In
the third settlement area, Agusan del Sur, a considerably longer development
period is required to achieve full integration, but techniques and solutions
to the difficult problems to be faced in developing Agusan del Sur would
have particularly wide application throughout the large area of the Agusan
river basin.
28.       The settlement in the province of Bukidnon in the northwestern
quadrant of Mindanao, which was begun in 1955, is the largest of the three
selected with over 7,000 families cultivating about 19,000 ha, or 55%, of the
36,000 ha settlement area. The vast majority of farms are between 4.5 and
9.5 ha in size, but many of these have been formally or informally subdivided.
Corn is the principal crop grown; crop yields are low with substantial
depletion of natural fertility occuring because continuous cropping is prac-
tised without the use of fertilizer. Average annual farm family income in
the area is about $375 equivalent, while non-farm families, living mainly in
the two sizeable trading centers, have incomes about 50-100% greater than



- 9 -
this. The road network in the settlement area remains very poor, the avail-
ability of adequate inputs and extension is very limited and institutional
credit only became available when a rural bank was established in the settle-
ment area in 1976.
29.       The settlement in the province of Capiz on the island of Panay in
the Visayas was spontaneously settled in the 1930s and made a government
settlement area in 1965; since then it has accommodated few new settlers. It
covers 25,000 ha, of which about 10,000 ha are cultivated by 4,600 families.
Average farm sizes vary from 5 ha to 24 ha, but as in Bukidnon many of the lots
have been formally or informally subdivided, with second or third generation
occupants now on the land. There are also 800 tenant farmers on 1,300 ha of
land who have been identified as potential land reform beneficiaries. Yields
and standards of crop husbandry for the principal crops, sugar cane and rice,
are substantially below national norms. As in Bukidnon, roads are extremely
poor and the settlement area does not have any financial institutions to serve
the resident population. Incomes of farm families residing in the settlement
area are about $375 equivalent, the same level as in Bukidnon.
30.       The settlement in Agusan del Sur in the northeastern quadrant of
Mindanao is the smallest and least developed of the three settlements selected.
It was begun in 1968 with a total land area of about 16,500 ha, of which an
estimated 4,000 ha are now cultivated by approximately 1,700 families. The
average farm size of registered settlers is 4.6 ha. Farms of unregistered
settlers are smaller, and some farm subdivided lots of registered settlers.
The area is characteristically broken terrain, but there are some extensive
lowland areas along the rivers on parts of which rice is grown. The lower
slopes are covered mainly by secondary forest but some areas are planted with
corn, abaca, upland rice, root and tree crops. Rainfall in the area is
heavy, the soils drain poorly, and slopes erode easily once they are cleared.
Consequently crop yields are very low and efforts to improve yields are
further hampered by very poor communications and distance from main markets.
Over 80% of the population live in the most primitive of housing without
water supply or sanitation systems. Malaria and schistosomiasis are both
endemic to the area. As a result, average gross family incomes are the
lowest of the three settlement areas at about $220 a year.
Implementation of First Rural Development Project
31.       The proposed project would be the second Bank-financed rural develop-
ment project in the Philippines. In 1975 the Bank'made a loan (1102-PH) of
$25 million to support rural development on the island of Mindoro. The pro-
ject is improving roads, irrigation systems, a port, and selected agricultural
programs on the island, as well as carrying out a watershed protection pro-
gram, schistosomiasis control and assistance to the Mangyan tribes. The
road and irrigation works are progressing well, and work has also begun on
Calapan port. Implementation of the other parts of the project had been
delayed by lack of local funds, but adequate budgets for FY77 have already
been approved and work on all parts of the project is now expected to proceed
rapidly. The lessons learned so far from experience under this project,
especially concerning budgetary arrangements, were fully considered while
preparing the proposed project, and taken into account in its design.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The Government is now giving renewed emphasis to programs of
organized land development and settlement in order to deal with the growing
scarcity of new agricultural land, and the problems caused by spontaneous
settlement of the remaining underdeveloped public lands.     The proposed
project is designed to strengthen both DAR's coordinating role and its
specialist services in planning, land allocation and settlement design as
well as to directly involve line agencies in developing agricultural services
and infrastructure. To provide a practical and replicable frame of reference
for a revitalized settlement program, three existing settlement areas in
Agusan del Sur and Bukidnon in Mindanao, and Capiz in the Visayas would
receive intensive assistance under the proposed project to upgrade their
physical infrastructure and the existing level of agricultural and other
services. The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed project in
the Philippines to assist the Government's land settlement program and the
first to focus on increasing agricultural productivity in rainfed areas.
33.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
the Bank. It was appraised in July/August 1976 and negotiations were held in
April 1977. The leader of the Government negotiating team was His Excellency,
Eduardo Z. Romualdez, the Philippines' ambassador to the United States. The
Appraisal Report (No. 1441a-PH) on the project is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. Annex III of this report contains a loan and
project summary and Annex IV contains a supplementary project data sheet.
Project Description
34.       The project would include the following detailed components:
A. Program Support
(i) Preparation by DAR with the assistance of consultants of a
10-year program for settlement development, including recom-
mendations on revised implementation procedures, agency
responsibilities, and overall policy review standards and
responsibilities.
(ii) Preparation by DAR, with the assistance of the same consultants
as above plus some additional consultants with special expertise,
of feasibility studies and detailed settlement development programs
for 200,000 ha of existing and new settlement areas. This study
would be carried out in parallel with the ten year program, but
would also draw on the results of that study as they became
available.
(iii) Provision of technical assistance and equipment for a Central
Project Management Unit (CPMU) in the DAR which would be respon-
sible for the programming, coordination and supervision of the
project.



- 11 -
(iv)  Provision of technical assistance to upgrade the training programs
and capability of DAR, with a principal focus on training staff in
the three settlement areas selected for improvement; and provision
of a small amount of overseas training.
(v)  Provision  of technical assistance to assist with the monitoring
and evaluation of progress in the three settlement areas selected
for improvement.
B. Settlement Development /1
(i)  Roads.  Construction rehabilitation or upgrading as appropriate of
140 km of national and provincial roads providing access into the
three settlement areas, 290 km of village feeder roads, and in the
Capiz settlement area construction of 100 km of low-grade tracks to
improve the transport of sugarcane.
(ii)  Irrigation and Drainage.   Construction, upgrading or rehabilitation
as appropriate of 3,000 ha of communal irrigation systems and
2,100 ha of small systems in the three settlement areas.
(iii) Erosion Control. Earthworks to inhibit erosion on 8,000 ha
of land in the Bukidnon settlement area, and simple erosion control
measures on about 2,000 ha in the three settlement areas.
(iv)  Forestry.  Provision of equipment and technical services to enable
forest development in Capiz and Bukidnon settlement areas for fuel
wood and other purposes, and to encourage the growing of fruit and
all purpose trees in all three settlement areas.
(v)  Health Units and Water Supply.   Construction of two rural health
units and 15 village (barrio) health stations, provision of equipment
and staffing for the above and for one additional rural health
unit, already constructed; strengthening of the malaria control
and schistosomiasis control programs in the Agusan settlement
area; and construction of village water supply systems in
villages in the three settlement areas.
(vi)  Buildings and Facilities.   Provision  of required additional office
space, office equipment, staff housing and transport facilities.
(vii)  Agricultural Services Center.   Construction of an Agricultural
Services Center in each of the three settlement areas and provision
of equipment and staff for staff and farmer training, adaptive
research and agricultural extension to be carried out in the three
settlement areas.
/1   No provision is made for the construction of schools because facilities
are reasonably adequate in the three settlement areas.



- 12 -
(viii) Marketing, Cooperative Development and Credit. Provision of
seasonal and term credit in the three settlement areas, and
establishment of a cooperative rural bank in the Capiz settle-
ment. The development of cooperatives and the provision of
adequate arrangements for marketing outlets in the three settle-
ment areas would also be included in the project.
Project Execution and Management
35.       Up to the present, the Department of Agrarian Reform has been respon-
sible for the planning and execution of all phases and activities of the
settlement program. Under the proposed project, DAR would be directly
responsible for settlement planning, land allocation, settler registration
activities, the construction of all buildings and facilities, erosion
control works and forestry, the minor irrigation systems and village water
supplies, but for all other activities, the appropriate line agency would be
directly responsible for execution under the coordinating authority of DAR.
Thus the Department of Public Highways would be responsible for the roads
component; the National Irrigation Administration for the communal irrigation
and water control; the Department of Health for the rural health units; the
Department of Agriculture for the operation of the Agricultural Services
Centers (ASC) and related activities; the Department of Local Government and
Community Development for cooperative development; and the Central Bank's
Department of Rural Banks and Saving and Loan Associations for the credit
component. The National Economic and Development Authority would assist DAR
with policy planning for settlement programs on public lands. In order to
attract qualified government agency staff to work in the three very isolated
settlement areas, the Government and DAR have developed proposals for "hardship
allowances" which are satisfctory to the Bank. The budget for these hardship
allowances would be administered by DAR. DAR's detailed proposals for training
of its senior staff were discussed at negotiations and are satisfactory to the
Bank.
36.       A senior representative from all these agencies, together with a
senior representative of the Budget Commission, would sit on an Inter-Agency
Project Coordinating Committee (IPCC), whose chairman would be an Assistant
Secretary of the Department of Agrarian Reform. He would be designated
Operations Coordinator for the project. The IPCC, as the coordinating body,
would review the annual work plan and budgetary appropriations required to
implement the project, would agree on the detailed responsibilities of the
executing agencies and resolve inter-agency conflicts and disputes. The
annual work plans and budgets for the project would be reviewed by the Bank
before final Government approval (Section 3.06 [a] of the Loan Agreement).
The Operations Coordinator would report directly to the Cabinet Coordinating
Committee for Rural Development. The ratification of a Presidential Letter
of Instruction (LOI) establishing the IPCC and spelling out the various res-
ponsiblities of the Government agencies and departments executing the project
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 [a]
of the Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
37.       A Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) headed by a project manager,
who has been appointed and is satisfactory to the Bank, would be established
within DAR to provide overall project management, to coordinate the detailed
work programs of the executing agencies and departments, to coordinate and/or
carry out DAR's line and staff functions relating to the project and to
monitor and evaluate the progress of the project. The project manager and his
staff would be drawn from the existing staff of the DAR, and would be assisted
by an internationally recruited advisor, whose appointment would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement),
and by short-term consultants and staff seconded from other government agencies
as needed. The Project Manager and senior staff of the CPMU would be appointed
in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). The CPMU
would also be responsible for preparing a ten year program for settlement
development and for the preparation of feasibility studies and detailed
programs for 200,000 ha of existing and new settlement areas. DAR would
retain consultants by May 31, 1978 to assist with this work; and would
complete and make available to the Bank the ten year program for settlement
development by December 31, 1980, and the feasibility studies and detailed
settlement programs by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement).
DAR would also retain consultants by November 30, 1977 to assist with the
monitoring and evaluation of the project. The qualifications and terms and
conditions of all the consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
38.       At the provincial level, an advisory committee, chaired by the
Provincial Governor would provide local coordination and advice. At the
settlement level, an Area Manager in each of the three settlement areas would
be responsible for project management and coordination. Their appointments,
to be made in consultation with the Bank, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (Sections 3.02 and 6.01(d) of the Loan Agreement).
39.       A critically important component of the project would be the pro-
vision of improved agricultural services in the three settlement areas. The
Department of Agriculture would be responsible for staffing, equipping, and
operating an Agricultural Services Center (ASC) in each settlement area to
carry out staff and farmer training, adaptive research and a properly planned
agricultural extension program. In addition, its Bureau of Soils would pro-
vide technical assistance to DAR for erosion control works. Prior to procure-
ment of equipment for the erosion control works, DAR would discuss and agree
with the Bank the technical specifications of the equipment required and the
detailed design of the works to be undertaken (Section 3.08 [b] of the Loan
Agreement). Credit would be provided through a rural bank in each settlement
area. In Bukidnon and Agusan del Sur, rural banks have already been established,
but in Capiz steps are being taken to establish a cooperative rural bank. The
Government and the Central Bank would endeavor to ensure that the Capiz rural
bank is operational by June 30, 1979 (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
To strengthen the management of the Capiz rural bank, the Department of Local
Government would provide special assistance under its Management Training and
Assistance Program. The managements of the other two rural banks in Bukidnon
and Agusan del Sur are considered satisfactory. The Central Bank would however
provide intensive training and supervision of all three rural banks during the
first year of their operation under the project, and thereafter its normal
training and supervison programs. Each of the three rural banks would have to



- 14 -
meet the Central Bank's normal eligibility criteria /1 for access to its
special time deposit and rediscounting facilities before it could draw on
the proceeds of the Bank loan (Schedule 1(4) of the Loan Agreement).
40.       The roads to be constructed in the settlement areas under the
project were selected on the basis of preliminary surveys with the objective
of providing improved roads to about 85% of the settlement farmers. Because
of the nature of the improvements to be made, detailed designs would have to
be flexible and situation specific. The irrigation works included in the
project are similar in nature since they consist of small scattered systems.
The Department of Public Highways and the National Irrigation Administration,
for their respective components, would submit detailed plans and designs for
specific works to be undertaken to the Bank for approval before construction
would begin (Section 3.08 [a] of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Land allocation poses particularly difficult problems in the three
settlement areas. Few settlers have received title to their land, many
continue to operate under usufruct systems, farm lots have been de facto
subdivided, and in Capiz and Bukidnon illegal tenancy arrangements occur. In
these circumstances, settlers find it difficult to obtain institutional credit
and are inhibited from investing in permanent assets. Because of the central
importance of satisfactory and effective land allocation procedures to the
success of the project in the three settlement areas, the Government would
implement revised land allocation guidelines including simplification     and
rationalization of procedures, and the delegation of more administrative
authority to settlement land allocation officers by December 31, 1977. In
order to obtain local settler participation in the process of land allocation
it would also establish Land Committees by December 31, 1977 (Section 3.09
of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
42.        The estimated total cost of the project is $32.6 million, of which
$11.8 million or 36% would be foreign exchange costs. The cost estimates
include provision for physical contingency allowances of 15% for buildings and
facilities and 20% for other civil works. The cost estimates also include an
allowance for increases in domestic and foreign prices amounting to 19% of
total project cost. The average man-month cost of foreign consultant services
is estimated to be $5,500. The project is scheduled for completion by July 31,
1982.
/1 These eligibility criteria include the time for which a rural bank has
been in operation, various financial criteria including the arrears posi-
tion and the condition of the portfolio, the competence of management and
compliance with Central Bank circulars and memoranda. These criteria are
set out in the Central Bank's Rules and Regulations governing the Fourth
Rural Credit Project (Loan 1399-PH), approved by the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1977 (SecM77-16).



- 15 -
43.       The proposed Bank loan of $15 million for this project would
finance 49% of total project costs, including about $4 million of local
costs. The justification for local cost financing in the Philippines is set
out in para 16. The loan would be made to the Government at an interest
rate of 8.2% for a term of 20 years, including four and one half years
of grace. The Government would finance $17.3 million of the balance of the
project costs from budgetary resources. The balance of $300,000 included in
the project would be provided by subborrowers and rural banks under the rural
credit component (see para. 44). DAR would administer the proceeds of the
loan (except for $900,000 for the term credit component) as well as the
required amount of Government resources in a special project fund. This would
be replenished by the Government at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to
the estimated requirements for the next two months. The establishment of this
special project fund by the Government would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 [b] of the Loan Agreement). Funds would
then be disbursed from the special project fund according to previously agreed
budgets.
44.       For the term credit component, the Government would relend $900,000
of the proceeds of the loan to the Central Bank under a subsidiary loan
agreement on the same terms as the Bank loan, and with conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.01 [b] of the Loan Agreement). The Central Bank would
re-lend these proceeds together with the equivalent of $700,000 of its own
resources to the participating rural bank in each of the settlement areas in
the form of special time deposits at an interest rate of 7% per annum and
with amortization reflecting the repayment terms of subloans. The Bank loan
would finance 50% and the Central Bank would finance 33% of the subproject
costs. The rural banks and subborrowers would finance the balance of the
subproject cost equally amounting in aggregate to $300,000. As is normal in
lending to land reform beneficiaries in the Philippines /1 the rural banks
would onlend at 12% per annum with repayment terms ranging from 3 to 10 years
depending upon the purpose of the subproject, including an appropriate grace
period. The terms and conditions under which credit funds would be disbursed
are set out in the Central Bank's Rules and Regulations governing the Fourth
Rural Credit Project (Loan 1399-PH), approved by to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1977 (Sec M77-16). Seasonal credit would be financed by the
Central Bank under its existing agricultural credit programs.
Procurement
45.       Equipment and vehicles for force account construction, and operation
and maintenance costing more than $20,000 would be bulked and procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
/I   Registered settlers under DAR's land settlement program are deemed to be
land reform beneficiaries.



- 16 -
For purposes of bid comparison, a preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods, or the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified local manufacturers. Items not suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding and costing less than $20,000 but more than
$10,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with Government's normal procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank. Items costing less than $10,000 would be procured through the
Government's normal shopping procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank,
up to an aggregate limit of $300,000. For term credit, equipment and civil
works would be procured through normal commercial channels from local or
foreign firms represented in the Philippines. Foreign firms are well repre-
sented in the Philippines, competition is keen and repair facilities adequate.
46.       Civil works required under the project for roads, irrigation and
drainage systems, buildings, forestry and conservation works would generally
be small, of varied design and geographically scattered. They would not be
of sufficient size nor could they be bulked to attract international bidders
and they would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with Government procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank. A limited amount of civil works would be done through
force account because of the remoteness of the areas and the consequent
difficulty of attracting bids from local contractors. In view of the limita-
tions on the Government's capacity for such work, an assurance was obtained
from the Government that the amount of work done by force account would not
exceed 40% of the total cost of the civil works unless otherwise agreed by the
Bank during implementation (Schedule 4B [i] of the Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
47.       The proposed loan would be disbursed for 100% of the c.i.f. cost
of directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100% of the ex-factory cost of
manufactured equipment and vehicles, and 65% of the cost of equipment
and vehicles procured locally; for 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
foreign consultants and training abroad or 65% of total cost of local consult-
ants; for 45% of the cost of civil works, and project personnel and other
operating expenses; and for 60% of the amounts disbursed by the Central Bank
for term credit. No disbursements would be made for term credit until a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, was concluded between
the Government and the Central Bank, and until the participating rural banks
meet the Central Bank's normal eligibility criteria for access to its special
time deposit and rediscounting facilities (Schedule 1 (4) of the Loan Agree-
ment).
Economic Justification and Project Risks
48.       The principal objective of the project is to help define policies
and develop programs and procedures that would enable the Government of
the Philippines to make the best use of its remaining public land suitable
for settlement by small farmers. To help achieve this, the proposed project
would support policy studies, the improvement of management systems for
settlement programs, and would, for the first time, involve line agencies and
departments directly in the execution of the settlement program. It would



- 17 -
also support the intensive development of three existing settlements to
demonstrate what might be achieved by the overall program, as these settle-
ments gradually become fully integrated into their surrounding area with
acceptable standards of living and are formally declassified as settlements.
Incremental project outlays per family over the five year period of the
project are $2,200 in Agusan (the least developed settlement area), $1,200 in
Bukidnon, and $800 in Capiz. Recurrent costs at full development would range
from $140 per family in Agusan to $30 in Capiz. Prior to construction an
Irrigator Service Association (ISA) would be established in each irrigation
area under the Project. The ISA would be responsible for ensuring collection
of dues for cost recovery purposes and for system maintenance. The Government
has also agreed to consult annually with the Bank on the adequacy of these
arrangements and the level of dues and water charges (Section 4.05 [b] and
[c] of the Loan Agreement). Cost recovery would be in line with that obtained
in government's larger national irrigation systems; the level of dues would
also be reasonable in relation to the low income levels of project benefici-
aries.
49.       At the settlement level, a central purpose of the project is to
raise farm incomes and living standards. Per capita incomes (including non-
farm income) on typical size farms are expected to increase from about $40
to $160 at full development in Agusan, from $60 to $105 in Bukidnon, and
from $60 to $150 in Capiz. Including some new settlement in Agusan del Sur
during the project period,/1 the project would thus benefit directly some
15,000 poor farmers who, with their families, comprise about 90,000 people.
It would also increase the demand for on-farm labor in the settlement areas,
thereby providing employment opportunities for the unskilled, lowest income
families.
50.       Farm incomes would be raised by increasing farm production and
productivity. The project would increase average yields and expand the area
of cultivation of agronomically suitable crops which offer higher returns to
the farmer. At full development, annual incremental rice production would be
37,000 tons, corn production 26,000 tons, sugar 15,000 tons, abaca fiber
4,400 tons. About 50% of the full increase should be attained by the end of
the fifth year with full development being achieved between the tenth and
fifteenth year, depending on the crop and area. In addition to raising farm
incomes in the settlement areas, the project would improve the transportation
system in and leading to the settlement areas, strengthen credit and marketing
facilities, and provide health and village water supply facilities in the
settlement areas.
51.       The economic rate of return of the project, assuming a conservative
land development build up is estimated at 17% in Agusan, which accounts for
30% of total project costs, 31% in Bukidnon, which accounts for 39%, and 41%
in Capiz, which accounts for 23%. The overall weighted average economic rate
of return for the three settlement areas is 28%. The relatively high rates
of return in Bukidnon and Capiz reflect in part considerable sunk costs in
/1 This new settlement is estimated to involve about 6,000 people. No
other new settlement would be undertaken in the Project.



- 18 -
physical infrastructure and on-farm development as well as minor differences
in crop types to be produced in each settlement area and their relative
profitabilities. Even if project benefits are only half those projected, the
weighted average economic rate of return would still be 15%.
52.       The proposed project would involve some risks, because of the need
to ensure the effective coordination of the large number of agencies involved
in the project, and because the Department of Agrarian Reform, which would
serve as the lead agency, presently lacks strong managerial skills. At the
settlement level, risks would be the introduction of new crops, the uncertain-
ty of the settler's response to the improved agricultural programs, and the
satisfactory resolution of land allocation problems. The project has been
prepared with all these risks very much in mind and designed to reduce them
to an acceptable level. The potential benefits to be gained from an improved
settlement program and the development of more productive cropping systems
for rainfed areas are sufficiently great to justify the risks involved in
the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of the
Philippines, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of the Loan Agreement of particular interest
are described in Section III, Annex IV of this report.
54.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement would
be the ratification of a Presidential Letter of Instruction (LOI) estab-
lishing the IPCC and spelling out the various responsibilities of the Govern-
ment agencies and departments executing the project, the establishment of a
special project fund by the Government, the appointment of the internationally
recruited advisor, and the appointment of an Area Manager in each of the three
settlement areas (Section 6.01 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the Loan Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 28, 1977






mA2W 
TABLE 5A                                        Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KN2)-------------------------
---- I----------                    ~~~~PHILIPPINES                       REFERENCE COUNTRIES ( 1910)
TOTAL       300.0                                       MUST RECENT
AGRIC.      U6.3                        1 960 ....1970__ESTIMATE..           THAILAND-      _TURKEY___     K ORE A.:Rl. W OF
GNP PER CAPITA (USD)                     1600       2300  30.0                    210.0      4.80.0       210.0
POPULAT ION AND VITAL ST ATITSTIICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            21.6       36.9       42.5               36.3        35.7        31.4
POPULATION DENSIT(Y
PER SQUARE KR.                        91.0     123.0      1 4 2. 0             71.0        4 6. 0     3 19. 0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL. LAND          .      279.0       326.O0 .d                       61.0     I1320. 0
YIYRL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE C/THOU)            4 5. 1    4 4.-2     4 3. 8              44 .3       4 0.6       35. 0
AVERAGE DEATH RATE c/THOU)            11r. 9    13S.2      10. 5               1 3.71      1 4.4       11. 4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)           .       80.0       68.0Li/             80.0       145.0
LOTFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       4 9.4     5 5. 6     58. 4               55.5        5 4. 4      51.?7
uROSS REPRODUCIION RATE                3. 5/a     3. 3      3. 3                3.2         2.6 /a.b    2. 6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                  3 .0       3 .0      2. 9                A3.1        2 .5        2.3
URBAN                                  4 .0       4. 0       4. 0               4 .9       4*.2         6. 4
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)           2 5. 3     271.46     29.0               15.0        31.2        41. 2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
10 1O4 YEARS                       4 5.1      4 5.46     Id. /               45 .3      4 1.8        42. 1
IS TO 64 YEARS                       51. 6      5 1.6      5I4O 0              52.3       5 3.9        54. 6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.7       2. 8       2.0 a               3. 0        4 .3        3 .3
AGE UEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.9       0. 9                0 .9        0. 9        0.8a
ECUWNOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3/b      1. 5       1.4 /b             1.1I        1.1I/c      1. 4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATI[YE, T HOU) I               35 4. 0   28172. 5             410.0
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)              .         2. 0     19. 0               1 0. 0       8.2        42.0
EMPL OYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         10100. 0  1 300 .0  14 200. 0           161700.0    14 500.0a I5 10430. 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          61I. 0     55.0/5     56. 0 /i           19.u        67.0        50. 5/a
UNEMPLOYED CO Of LABOR FOYCE)            6.0        1. 0       4. 0                 .4 . 0 /e             5. 5/b
INCOME UISTRIAUTION
I UF PRIVATE INCOME RECD0 8T
HIGHEST  SoX OF HOUSEHOLDS           2 8.8 a               24. 8/                ..       3 2 .A       11r.1I
HIGHEST 200 OF HOUSEHOLDS            56. 2         ..      54.   d.                       6 0.6        44. 5
L'TVLST  200 OF HOUSEHOLDS             4 .2        ..       39                   ..         2 9   ~     1.1I
LOWEST  401 OF HUUSEHOLOS             11L. 9       ..          1.9/9 .d                     9. 4 i     17.17
DIhTVltJUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
& UWNLD BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS              . .                             . .  ..             30         28. 0
I UWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS            .                          . ...          .09                   2. 0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHTSIC IAN                 ..         .      3220.0 /a          1910.0      2220.0      2 210.0/
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON...                           20 00.0 /a          6650.0      1 88 :0.0/  1160.00 Li
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           IIAU0:      850.0         ..               50.0       49 0.0     1920. 0
PEA CAPITA, SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES CO OF REQUIREMENTS)         8 3. 0    100.0       97. /5             1050        11 0.0      103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               44. 0     4 5.0      41. r 9             520         1.0         6.
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULHE          19. 0 /   22.0                           if1. 0 /a   22.0OA      L9.0
D E AtH H A TE 1/ I HOU  A GES 1- 4      9.0/5      9.0        9. 3/a                        L 15.0 lb
EDACAYTION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        91.0k    108.0      1 10.0 La.K          82.0 /5     L11.0 At   104. 0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      26.0/5     480/5     4.                   60/         80         4.
TEARtS OF SCHOOLING PROAIDOE
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              10.0      10. 0      10.0                12.0        1. 0        12. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                      14.0 /f    6.0/        .0/               14.   5     1 4.0       16. 0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CI)                   ..         ..       120 a5             19.         550         A0
HOU1 5 140
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 .        2.1         ...102.17
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED MATER (0)                       80.0      76.0o..                                    6 4.0       80. 0 /
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Cl OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  11.0      2 3.0        ...                           4 1.0       50. 0
RURAtL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                      .      .  .0         I.                             a 1.0a     30. 0
CONSUMPTION
RADOU RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          2 2. 0     4 5. 0     45. 0              18 .0       8 9.0      126. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        8.0        9.0                5.0         4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           100. 0     235.0      3 15. 0            12 4.0      2417.0      301. 0
NEWSPRINT CR0/YR PER CAP)                1.3        2.0        1.5                1.0         0.1         3.4
SEE NOTES AND DEFINCTIONS ON REVERSE



Pakge 2 of s pages
Uolses othareise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year hboesm 1959 and 1961, for 1970 kat%e50 1968 and 1970, and for Hoot Reast Estimate betoeen
1973 and 1975.
-x KOM&a has bea   selected as an objective Country on the basis of Its silarl popsulationo, Ioatim       and intone isrl and, liks th. Philippines, it Is
exPected to grOa, rpidly In the co.og Years.
ZKsWflfl            1960     /a  1950-55;   As Ratio of popuaUtion under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;      /4  1960-62;   aq  1962;  /4  7-12
and 13-16 years of age respectively; If Not including vocational short,-tes oonree.
1970     /a   As perctentge of eaployeest;   A4  7-12 and 13-16 years of age respctively;     4c  Not including private vocatoa
schools or vocational short-tte, coona...
NW? RCE?T swansT1t 1972; a Ratio Of population coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force; /a Ae prerentage of
Of smployestg /d 1971; /4 Inclauding aishoives; /f 1969-71 average; ag 7-12 and 13-16 years
of age respectively.
TFAIW         ~1220     A   1964-661       7-13 and 1o-lB year   of age resfPectively;  /4  public schoole sdhuc  include technical ectacation at the
post-seconday level.
TM=           ~~1970    a   tcludea 17 eastern provinces;     A4  1965467;  /a  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over to labor force 15
yrenr and over; Ld 15 years and over, excludes usn.ployed; /e Registered only; /4 Maposabie incas; Za In-
cluding ae-sitant oureo and midwives;     /   I964s-6; /4    7-fl years of age; /4    Persons 6 year  old end over tsh
te1.1 the consu takoers they can read and write..
ML3EA&. REP. OF     1970     a-  A. percentage Of esployxent;   /b   Registered;  /4  Registered, not all practicng in the -conatry     /d   Water piped
inside.
RB, NOvaenher 3, 1976
DEIfIiTIONS Of SOCIAL. INiDICAfO0S
Lond_Area touinl                                                                   ouato nrcrsn           ota      PopulotbJn divded by osober of practicing
To-tal-  Total -nfoc- are, -opnislg land area and inland waters-                    n1ab nd fftnie groduoto    uos     "trained" or "-etifiod" nuss,ed
ore-Mo, t recent .. tiuate of ocric-itua1 area -sd temporarily or              auoiliory Pereon   1 with training or coperien-c
PeruoootIY far crops, pooturco, corket h kitchen gardoo or to .      lsolatenPI, khoital bed - Popuslation divded by cuebr oi hospital bedo
follow.                                                                           avio     Le   public sod private general and epetiali-ed hocpitsl and
rchabtlitatil oontero, -oludos corning hcoco and -otablishmente for
GNP cocoa. pita (u11) - GNPf Per c-pit, otntsacurren         cachet Prices,         ouctdial and pc-ti-n care
calculated by the non  -cvr-ns us-mthod as Wo-ld lank Atlas (1973-75            Per.. ieta.vel of esloetoc Cl of rcurcerl             - Cputed teen onrgy
bacis) , l960, 1970'and 1975 data,                                                equivalent of net feed supplies avalable in cesitry Per caPito per day,
o-itoblo suppli-o -opnia     d-ntuio p-nd-tan, inpoets less enparts,
Ponolatlan and vital otatiotico                               ~~and cbangen in stck, net supplies e-ulude anima    iced, seds, quantl-
fanulatban Amdy.cliol-6            nO July firoc    if not ovilable,                tics  ood in food preceoing and loose     in dintribatian: reqoirenenta
o-orgo, of two    nd-y-or-tle-se       1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                  s-r s-ti-std by PAO baced an phytlelgleo.. neds for norma        ontivity
sod health eaneiderinas  ntenns       tanperatu, body sighto, age sod
PPeplatian donlt -ea ouae o           Mid-year populstioc per square kilo-          ne  dis trihutibas of pepulation, and allowing 111% foe weete at hones-
caZter ~(100 her.rara) of totalara                                                 held iced.
powaindensity - per 5  -am hoofnoit land - Cnputed sa abov         for      per ..pit. uoeel    of cenei irc       rdas-Protein eantent of per
agricultural land andy.                                                           repute cot supply Of food pee day, oat supply of food is deficed a
obee; requirecets for all conrisctohliohed by USDA gE-m            ic
Vital statiotice                                               gesea~~~~~~~~~~~..rch laroiee  proeid  far . clts., oloae  of 60 g-on  of tee,l
Crude birth rate sot thousan.d - Annie I lion htrth  per thousan.d of old-          protsin pe r day, and 29 groas atanma     and pulse protein, at uhieb
yea  population, te-yea    eritfv-ci  averognu ending in 1960 and 1979,           10 gr,s  should be anicaI protein, these standoed      arc lowe  tho  thoss
an.d floe-year overge eding te 1975 Cfor cet recentetna.                           of 75 cr-c   ef total protein anod 23 groan of anical protein as an
Crde eto     aeetiese         - Ann.oI deoths per thousand of mid-year             avrage for tho world, proposed by FAt Lc tho Third WJorld,Sued 9-..vy.
pepulattoc, te-year eritbcoti     --erg-o anding io 1960 and 1970, sod          Par capita protele swee      fin, animal and pulbs - Peotels npply of feod
flo-yea   average endig is; 1975 toe meat re...ont esiusderived fran annals and pulna iv ir                                n,pr dsy.
Infat crtalss_ate.ijteul- Annua  doroo     ffco,edrnc          ero                                     - Annual destha per thow.u,d t    e   r
aeper rhoun-d IIvo b-rthe.                                                      1-4 yearn, to childene in this oge group, suggested as an indi-ator of
Life eor    nfaibit      or)-Avrgnohra yero of lito remaining                       nal-tritian.
ot brhanayfieyaevrgaoding in                       60kO  1970 mod 1975 for
develoing cutri-a                                                               Edneatian
Cress ne-rductian rate -      Averug o-he  of ILiv   doughteru u  oa   ill        AZdjuste   onrelnotrto      nnaeohuo1 - goE-1cent of all agesn
bear in her canal reproductive period it nha e-p-ie..ue. Prsee       age-         p     . tcenog of prmary school-age popuatian, inlude- children sged
speuiffic fertility rates, -sully finn-year    -erges ending to 19h0,             h-li yearn bu tadjusted for differet lengtbaoef primary odustian;
1970 sod 1971 for developingvountni-s                                             for cotries with unier-sad. odctia, enrollment cay exced 10%
-eu  ia rwhMrt  1      - totl- Cupound uncoolI growtb eaten of cid-          niu~       pupil   ore below or abov  the efficial   chel age.
yea  popalatlan for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-75.                              Adloated enrllen rai          ads     col- Cnpstsd so above,
opeplatiannon,   rat C) uba           - Cooputed like growtb rate at total          sceadary edustta -require     at boo.t four ycarc of approvd pricasy
pepulatian, differet definitians of    rbnn area   nay sfeet easpars-             inotroetiem, provide, general, -octioal or teachr training
bility o f dsta amOug conties.                                                    inotructions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age, norreepoodecte
Uehsn eneu1ation Ml of recall - Rati.ofe urban to total populatian,                 rnseosa .ar   gnrally enloded.
ditff-ot deflnitianu of urban aress naY nff-t uopareblity of dots               learn of nehoolink eroided (frtadsnn          ee)- Total yeses of
ac"u  o-trie-                                                                    oneeig,a       secndary leve,   -ocotbnl.it-trnisn may he pan-
Age strutur     (p- .o.nt) - Children (0-14 year), working-ago (15-64 yearn),       tially or ecopletely e.tl1ded.
and retired (iSyas6n5ve)n           percentges of mid-year pepelatian.          Voctinae    rollment (7. of -ceondasy) - Vocational inotitutiona
on -endny ratio       -Rltne      outiio     uder 15 and i5 and ovr to              includ  tebis,idoro:rubrper                        hc    prt
thoon of agen 17 through 64.                                                      indepodestly or ondoporusects of oeeandsry icatituti-us
fEanuic dependenc.y ratio   - Retio of populotiee under 15 ad 65 and anne         Adult ierc     at        - Literste adules (able to read and write)a
to the labor forte ic age group of 15-64 yearn.                                   peruantage of total adult pepuIatian Agod 15 years aed over
F-Zsy ei.onein  - acc  ptnrn eolaie thou) - Conulative nmber of
-ccptorn et bieth-cant-I devices undr ..uoPitcof notional foily                 go- Lagc
planning p-og'ac nince in...pti".                                               Person, per roo    (a-rsgel - A-ersos  ouber of persoo  per ro     in
Fonily planning - uners Cl of carried     Puo)  - Pretages of n,-ind                occupied enoentinnal dsllisgo in     rbas areas; deelliogs eclode
woccofa child-bearing sgn (15-44 years) who     - birch-cant-I d-yle..            o-p-eoanet -otrotre- sod -nacpi.d parts.
in all carried w-nc   in san  ago group.                                       Occupiod dwelig wihot.g            wtr       - On.uPied eaynvetiana1
dwellings in urban and rura   areas witbhe L-oid. Or -eteida piped
ae,leocooc                                                                          water foeillties se pernc.tag-f all occupied d-Iilgo.
Tatal labor feces (th-..sd) - fuan-1-caly -cit- pernoun, including                means- taeeirniy          fall dwellog        - Cone-tbosl dwellings
dilse  f    -es  e -mepi  d hen encloding henei-ee, studonts, at.;             with electrleiry in living quarter, a pere-m       at total dwellings in
definit ou:,in voian.    uootnieu are net c-prable.                              urban and rualaras
Labor fort in anri-Iture M%     - Agrti.cultrn    lahor forte (in farming,       Rural.dwellings cennectd to e  1setricity  (X) - Conpted as show     foe
I'llatry, huting end fishing) as p-ortenge of total lasker feces                 raL dwelig       on.ly.
oeplayed C     of lsbor forte) - leempleyd see usually defined an pero-a
who ore ab Land willing to take a Job, ant ef a Job an a glee       day,       Consastia
reonod ant of sjob, and seeking week fee a specified minima       period       Radio renei-er foot than Ppe) - All typec of eeeeefoe radio beed-
cot enceding one week;cay not ho ncnporsbleb heisee     eonsotrio  due to        -asto to general publice poe thansed of populstion; ex1lsdee
di.,fferet dfiitiano of unomplayed sod sancs of dots, e.g., employ-               nli.eosed receivers in nonctries add to yasrs ekes ragistratIon of
catafe  tstistico, smaPla ouvYs, ocplnr       acploysmt banuronn.          radio sets was in ef-tee; data for recent yesescap noct ho oonpaabls
In_- dione~iburia      - Per-tnege of private ic-s   (both in ceoh and bind)      Passemeer earn (Par thou eec) -aaegr0cdc eapriac ontarer
re..eiwad by richnat 5%, riebhnt 20%, Pooreot 20%, and peereat h0T of            sea ting Isa. thso night persona; eludos. anbulane, hearses and
h-.eha1do,                                                                       cilitery v-hiele..
DI,                                                         ~~~~~         ~          ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~Leeriio hu/y  erca)- enuoas  cOcausptita   of tidmatria1, n
Dist  ,ribuio of tlsnd c srshp - Prce-coge- of land owed by oxitbiest                                           1-en,pbi  adpisseetricity in kilowtt hones par capita,
101  nd  oorst 1% e  Isd one.goe.rslly hosed On, produntis, dais, without alwnefoe losses in
Ocaith end sutrition                                           0~~~~~~~~~rido bet all1ssig for imports sod experts of e1eetriwity.
"'V"It"d  NI triti-  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     esseic (eyrea c      p)-per espits a-maa con-option, in kilogram
pean.Lato   pre physician -   Pepu1lnotn divded by osaber of precticingetitdfrndmsi                         prodntion pin, met imports of newpriot.
phyaliains qualified iron o vdica1 -ch-i at -citsrslty 1sve



C005/J4370/D424 A-20/21
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (1. constant prices)
US$ million       2              1965-70   1970-75    1976
GNP at Market Prices                    17,515      100.0              5.7       6.3      6.3
Gross Domestic Investment               5,408        30.9              1.6       3.7      3.7
Gross National Saving                   4,382       25.0               3.6      -2.0    -2.0
Current Account Balance                -1,026       -5.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                   3,105       17.7               4.5      17.2     17.2
Imports of Goods, NYS                   4,201       24.0               7.2      0.0       0.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                  Labor Force           V.A. per worker
USS million       2            Million      x             US$       2
Agriculture                         4,606       29.0             7.8     51.6             591     56.2
Industry                           5,323       33.5             2.2      14.6           2,420    230.0
Services                           5,961       37.5              4.5    29.8            1,325    126.0
Unemployed                             .          .             0.6       4.0
Total/Average                    15,890      100.0            15.1    100.0           1.052    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                      Central Government
(Million)         Z of GDP           (Pesos million)        x of GDP
197         197      196 -7              1975         1975      1973-75
Current Receipts               ..           ..        ..             16,838         14.6       14.0
Current Expenditure                                                  14.773         12.8       11.0
Current Surplus                ..           ..        ..              2,065          1.8        3.0
Capital Expenditures           ..           ..        ..              3,425         3.0        2.8
External Assistance (net)      ..          ..         ..               287          0.2        0.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                       1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975
(Million Pesos Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Honey                        9,001     10,325    11,872    14,021    16,773    19,254
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 3,263     3,087     2,994     2,860     3,462     6,296
Bank Credit to Private Sector                8,442     9,688     11,646    15,464   23,098    26,977
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Honey as 2 of GDP              22.1      20.4      20.9      19.6     16.8      16.7
General Price Index (1965 - 100)              137.7     159.3     175.4    218.4     337.5     364.8
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                           23.6       15.7     *10.0     24.6      54.5       8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  -2.4      -5.4      -3.0      -4.5      21.0     181.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 17.2      14.8      20.2      32.8      49.4      16.8
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Not available.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975     1976                                        US$ million       1
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS               3,357   2,954   3,105        Coconut Products                     539          21.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              3,782    4.036   4,201        Sugar Products                       607          24.3
Resource Gap (deficit X -)           -425  -1,082  -1,096        Forest Products                      289          11.6
Mineral Products                     437          17.5
Interest Payments (net)              -55     -110    -161        Fruits & Other Agric. Products       119           4.7
Workers' Remittances                           72      106       Other Manufactures                   511          20.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                  -121    -118          Total                            2,502         100.0
Net Transfers                         271     318     243
Balance on Current Account           -210    -923  -1,026
Direct Foreign Investment              59     125      94      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975 /e
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                       402     677     883                                                  US$ million
Amortization                        339     320     355
Subtotal                          63      357     528        Public Debt, including Guaranteed              1,554
Capital Grants                                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    1,417
Other Capital (net) /a                373     547      581       Total Outstanding and Disbursed                2,971
Ocher Items n.e.i. /b                   4    -182    -109
Increase in Reserves (+)              289     -76      68      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975 /f
Gross Reserves (end year) /c        1,978   1,360    1,640                                                        %
Inter. Reserves (end year) /d       1,165   1,089    1,157
Public Debt, including Guaranteed               7.7
Non-Guranteed Private Debt                      8.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                       Total Outstanding and Disbursed                16.6
Imports of Goods, NFS               3,782   4,036   4,201
of which:   Petroleum               653     710      800     IBRD/IDA LENDING. March 31, 1977 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      IBRD         IDA
1965-69         1970-71
Outstanding and Disbursed          329.6        27.7
US$ 1.00 = Ps.           3.92            6.43                    Undisbursed                        654.5         4.5
Ps. 1.00 = US$           0.26            0.16                    Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed     984.1        32.2
April 1972-July 1975        Since July 1975
US$ 1.00 = Ps. 6.78         US$ 1.00 = Ps. 7.5
Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.15         Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.133
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities and use of IMF credit.
/b  Errors and omissions.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/d  Gross reserves of Central Bank plus net reserves of commercial banks.
/e  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
If  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1977 /1
Loan or
Credit                                                    Amounts (US$ millions)
Number     Year      Borrower         Purpose           Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and two credits fully disbursed         196.5     19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines     Irrigation         34.0              0.7
720-PH    1971                       Rice Processing
".            and Storage      14.3              6.9
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation     Power              22.0               7.6
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines     Education II               12.7       4.6
891-PH    1973                       Fisheries         11.6               5.2
939-PH    1973                       Ports              6.1               4.7
950-PH    1973                       Second Highways   68.0              25.6
984-PH    1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5              8.4
998-PH    1974          "            DFC-DBP I         50.0              11.5
1010-PH    1974                       Third Rural
Credit           22.0              0.0
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation     Power              61.0              36.1
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines     Population         25.0              23.1
1048-PH    1974          "            Shipping          20.0              17.7
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                30.0              22.9
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the    Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation      17.0              15.7
1102-PH    1975                       Rural
Development      25.0             24.6
1120-PH    1975                       Small and Medium
Industries       30.0             11.2
1154-PH    1976                       Magat
Irrigation       42.0             41.0
1190-PH    1976          "            DFC-DBP II        75.0              75.0
1224-T-PH  1976                       Education III     25.0              22.6
1225-PH    1976                       Livestock II      20.5              16.9
1227-PH    1976                       Chico Irrigation  50.0              50.0
1272-T-PH  1976                       Manila Urban      10.0              10.0
1282-PH    1976                       Manila Urban      22.0              22.0
1269-PH    1976                       Second Grain
Processing       11.5             11.5
1270-PH    1976           "           Second Fisheries  12.0              12.0
1353-PH    1977                       Third Highways     95.0             95.0
1367-PH /2 1977                       Jalaur Irrigation 15.0              15.0
1374-PH /2 1977                       Fourth Education  25.0              25.0
1399-PH /2 1977    Central Bank of    Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit           36.5              36.5
Total                                        1.081.5     32.2    659.0
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                      93.6       -
Total now outstanding                           987.9    32.2
Amount sold                      16.4
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                12.6            3.8       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                984.1     32.2
Total undisbursed                               654.5     4.5    659.0
/ The Executive Directors are scheduled to consider on May 3, 1977 a loan of
$50 million for the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project and
$25 million for the Provincial Cities Water Supply Project.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1977
Fiscal                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Year                          Company                            Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973    Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                     15.0     4.4   19.4
1967           Manila Electric Company                            8.0       -    8.0
1967           Meralco Securities Corporation                       -     4.0    4.0
1970           Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                                4.5       -    4.5
1970 & 1972    Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                        0.8     0.4     1.2
1970           Paper Industries Corporation of
the Philippines                                    -     2.2    2.2
1971           Philippine Petroleum Corporation                   6.2     1.8     8.0
1972           Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                     15.0       -   15.0
1973           Victorias Chemical Corporation                     1.9     0.3     2.2
1974           Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation              1.5       -     1.5
1974           Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.          1.5     0.5    2.0
1974           Republic Flour Mills Corporation                   1.2       -    1.2
1975           Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                      7.0       -    7.0
1976           Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                         2.6     0.2    2.8
Total gross commitments                          65.2     13.8   79.0
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                            20.2     7.2    27.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                45.0     6.6    51.6
Undisbursed                                       0.6       -     0.6



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 637    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project; $34.0 Million Loan
of August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area. The
project's on-farm development scheme is setting a pattern for future irriga-
tion development in the country. Some delays were caused by the 1972 floods,
but construction has progressed satisfactorily since then. All works will
be substantially completed and the Loan fully disbursed by the Closing Date
of June 30, 1977. Project costs have increased 72% over appraisal estimates,
largely as a result of rapid inflation, the effects of successive devaluations
of the peso, and design changes in the dam (which accounted for about one-
quarter of the increase in costs). However, as a result of the close coordi-
nation established between irrigation and agricultural support services, the
project is expected to reach full development sooner than was anticipated at
the time of appraisal. Also, there are added benefits from early closure of
the dam resulting in water storage and releases sooner than planned, and
nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project. Finally, there has been a
considerable increase in the projected world market price of rice. As a
result the estimated rate of return is about the same as at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage Project; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
However, because of long construction period required for the large subprojec-s,
full disbursement will be delayed by about two years and the Closing Date has
been postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power Project; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million
Credit No. 296 Credit of April 3. 1972; Date of Effectiveness
July 1, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily, and the unit is expected to be commissioned shortly. The erec-
tion of transmission lines has been somewhat delayed due to unfavorable
weather and poor soil conditions and is now expected to be completed in
April 1977. A tariff increase was approved in October 1976. However, it
was too late for NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8% on its
net fixed assets in operation in 1976.
Credit No. 471 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984     $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Although there has been some delay in constructing the two diversion
dams because of the need for more extensive foundations and abutment area
grouting than originally expected, most difficulties have been overcome and
the work is progressing satisfactorily. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water
into the Pantabangan Reservoir was achieved in September 1975, one year ahead
of the appraisal schedule. All remaining engineering work on the second
diversion dam was completed in July 1976, one year ahead of schedule. In the
area served by the project, lack of competition caused some delay in the
awarding of contracts, but this has been overcome. Efforts to attract bids
from more local contractors have been very effective. Urgent work is being
done by Government force account. Project costs have increased about 54%
over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of inflation. There would be
added benefits from early diversion, however, resulting in additional water
for irrigation sooner than planned, but the rate of return is expected to
fall from the 17% estimated at the time of appraisal to 14%. The credit has
been fully disbursed and disbursement on the loan has now begun.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming Project:
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
is being used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project. The Loan is now
fully committed for subloans and disbursements are expected to be completed
before the closing date.
Loan No. 1010    Third Rural Credit Project; $22.0 Million Loan of
June 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Loan was fully committed by December 31, 1975 and disbursements
are expected to be completed well before the closing date.
Loan No. 1034     Sixth Power Project:  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31. 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. Major equipment for the plant has been con-
tracted and project commissioning is expected this year. The transmission
component of the project is behind schedule because necessary design work has
been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction program. It is now expected
that this part of the project will be completed by the end of 1978, i.e. one
year behind schedule.
Credit No. 349  Second Education Project; $12.7 Million Credit of
January 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions,
curriculum development, and new technical and vocational institutions
in rural areas. The physical facilities are nearing completion but are
about 11 months behind appraisal schedule due to earlier delays. All
project institutions are expected to be in full use by mid-1977. The
technical assistance program, however, is not expected to be completed
until late 1978. Therefore, the postponement of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1979 is being considered.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 891    Fisheries Project; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the closing date.
Loan No. 939     Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. The contractors are making efforts to
overcome the difficulties. By February 1977, work was 17% completed in
General Santos, whereas in Cagayan de Oro progress has so far mainly been
in mobilization and site preparation. The present estimated total project
cost is 75% higher than the appraisal estimate due to worldwide price
increases. However, foreign exchange costs are lower than appraisal esti-
mates as the contractors are locally based. Total traffic at the project
ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a reasonable financial rate
of return is being earned.
Loan No. 950     Second Highway Project; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Overall construction progress is satisfactory with about 80% of
the works completed. However, progress on one of the national roads is
not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project completion by about
12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-financed road feasi-
bility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed engineering for
the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in August 1976.
Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project is underway
and expected to be completed by August 1977. The total cost of the project
has risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of
inflation following the oil price increase in late 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 1035   Population Project; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are well ahead of schedule in all 12 regions; the civil works
component lags by 9 months, but is projected to be completed ahead of the
appraisal report timetable due to simplification of construction design.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1048    Interisland Shipping Project; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Progress under the project is satisfactory. Commitments were
originally slow, because of lack of demand from the private sector and
DBP's restrictive collateral requirements. These problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments are expected to increase during the coming
months.
Loan No. 1052    Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of industrial subprojects,
the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented manufacturing
projects. As of March 31, 1977, commitments for subloans totalling
$12.5 million had been made. While subloan commitments have been some-
what slower than originally expected due to the generally slow pace of
business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation Project; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,



ANNEX II
Page 8
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
Force account work on the irrigation component is about 38% completed, but
contract construction which will amount to 80% of the total work has only
started. However, all major civil works contracts are now awarded and
remaining work is all under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development Project; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness:   July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and roads, which are being implemented
by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and construction has
begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan Assistance Program,
however, there was little progress under the other programs because of
inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new programs. Adequate
1977 budgets have been approved and all work is now expected to proceed
rapidly.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development Project; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975: Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully committed. After a
slow start, commitment of funds under the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund and
National Electrification Administration is now proceeding well. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
making good progress. The water management training is underway and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1190   Second Industrial Investment Project; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28. 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and
relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole over the past twelve months have recently
improved. As of April 11, 1977, commitments for subloans totaling $7.7 mil-
lion had been made. The Executive Directors approved a proposal to
reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries on
February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock Project; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The Loan became effective on September 13, 1976, and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Initial progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing ProJect; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976,
and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976 and initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan area, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Tendering is
underway for construction of 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan,
secondary water mains for Tondo, and the interceptor sewer for Tondo.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. The loan became effective on
March 30, 1977.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
The Loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1374    Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is for agricultural education and training. It
includes assistance for: specialized facilities for forestry, animal science,
and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural college in the Visayas; and
training for extension workers and farmer leaders. The loan is not yet effec-
tive.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Central Bank will relend $35.7 million of the proceeds of
the Loan to participating banks for relending to farmers, fishermen and
rural entrepreneurs to finance investments in farm mechanization, light
transportation, coastal and inland fisheries, small-scale livestock devel-
opment, and cottage-scale agro-industries. The balance of the proceeds
of the Loan will be used to finance vehicles, studies and staff training,
and an agricultural machinery testing project.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of the Philipppines
Amount:                $15.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 The loan would be made at an interest rate of 8.2% for
a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
Relending Terms:       The Government would relend $900,000 of the proceeds
of the loan to the Central Bank under the terms of a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank.
The Central Bank would onlend the funds to the partic-
ipating rural bank in each settlement area in the form
of special time deposits at an interest rate of 7% per
annum and with amortization reflecting the repayment
terms of subloans. The participating institutions
would relend the funds to ultimate beneficiaries at an
interest rate of 12% per annum with repayment terms
ranging from 3 to 10 years depending upon the purpose
of the subproject, including an appropriate grace period.
Project Description:
A. Program Support
(i) Preparation by DAR with the assistance of consultants
of a 10-year program for settlement development,
including recommendations on revised implementation
procedures, agency responsibilities, and overall
policy review standards and responsibilities.
(ii) Preparation by DAR, with the assistance of the same
consultants as above plus some additional consultants
with special expertise, of feasibility studies and
detailed settlement development programs for 200,000 ha
of existing and new settlement areas. This study would
be carried out in parallel with the 10-year program,
but would also draw on the results of that study as
they became available.
(iii) Provision of technical assistance and equipment
for a Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) in DAR



ANNEX III
Page 2
which would be responsible for the programming,
coordination and monitoring of the project.
(iv) Provision of technical assistance to upgrade the
training programs and capability of DAR, with a
principal focus on training staff in the three
settlement areas selected for improvement; and
provision of a small amount of overseas training.
(v) Provision of technical assistance to assist with
the monitoring and evaluation of progress in the
three settlement areas selected for improvement.
B. Settlement Development /1
(i) Roads. Construction, rehabilitation or upgrading as
appropriate of 140 km of national and provincial roads,
providing access into the three settlement areas,
290 km of village feeder roads, and in the Capiz
settlement area construction of 100 km of low-grade
tracks to improve the transport of sugarcane.
(ii) Irrigation and Drainage. Construction, upgrading
or rehabilitation as appropriate of 3,000 ha of
communal irrigation systems and 2,100 ha of small
systems in the three settlement areas.
(iii)  Erosion Control.   Earthworks to inhibit erosion on
8,000 ha of land in the Bukidnon settlement area,
and simple erosion control measures on about
2,000 ha in the three settlement areas.
(iv)  Forestry.  Provision of equipment and teclhnical
services to enable forest development in Capiz and
Bukidnon settlement areas for fuelwood and other
purposes, and to encourage the growing of fruit and
all purpose trees in all three settlement areas.
(v) Health Units and Water Supply. Construction of two
rural health units and 15 village (barrio) health
stations, provision of equipment and staffing for the
above and for one additional rural health unit,
already constructed; strengthening of the malaria
control and schistosomiasis control programs in the
Agusan settlement area; and construction of village
water supply systems in villages in the three settle-
ment areas.
No provision is made for the construction of schools because facilities
are reasonably adequate in the three settlement areras.



ANNEX III
Page 3
(vi) Buildings and Facilities. Provision of required
additional office space, office equipment, staff
housing and transport facilities.
(vii) Agricultural Services Center. Construction of an
Agricultural Services Center in each of the three
settlement areas and provision of equipment for
staff and farmer training, adaptive research and
agricultural extension to be carried out in the
three settlement areas.
(viii)  Marketing, Cooperative Development and Credit.
Provision of seasonal and term credit in the three
settlement areas, and construction and establishment
of a cooperative rural bank in the Capiz settle-
ment. The development of cooperatives and the
provision of adequate arrangements for marketing
outlets in the three settlement areas would also
be included in the project.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total       Foreign Exchange
 ---    $ million--------              %
A.  Program Support
Staff salaries and
allowances               0.47         -        0.47              -
Technical services          0.59       0.49      1.08             45
Staff training              0.19       0.07      0.26             27
Other costs                 0.16       0.27      0.43             62
Sub-total               1.41        0.83      2.24
B.  Settlement Development
Road construction           4.62       2.83      7.45             38
Irrigation works            1.70       1.04      2.74             38
Other works                 0.31       0.19      0.50             38
Equipment for force
account work             0.59        1.19      1.78            67
Forestry services           0.44       0.29      0.73             40
Agricultural services       2.00       0.64      2.64             24
Health services             0.43       0.14      0.57             25
Other services              1.77       0.64      2.41             27
Credit                      1.84       1.13      2.97             38
Sub-total              13.70        8.09    21.79
Total base costs               15.11        8.92    24.03             37
Physical contingency            1.60       0.84      2.44
Price contingency               4.03        2.08     6.11
Total Cost             20.74       11.84    32.58             36



ANNEX III
Page 5
Financing:
US$ million     Percent
Government                               17.30          53.0
Bank                                     15.00          46.0
Rural banks                               0.15           0.5
Beneficiaries                             0.15           0.5
Total                               32.60          100.0
Disbursements:
Fiscal Year          Annual           Cumulative
--------US$ million-------
1978                 1.3                1.3
1979                 3.3               4.6
1980                 3.4               8.0
1981                 3.1               11.1
1982                 2.9               14.0
1983                 1.0               15.0
Procurement:     Equipment and vehicles for force account construction,
and operation and maintenance costing more than $20,000
would be bulked and procured through international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
For purposes of bid comparison, a preference limited to
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified
local manufacturers. Items not suitable for international
competitive bidding and costing less than $20,000 but more
than $10,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with the Government's
normal procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Items
costing less than $10,000 would be procured through the
Government's normal shopping procedures, which are acceptable
to the Bank, up to an aggregate limit of $300,000. For
term credit, equipment and civil works would be procured
through normal commercial channels from local or foreign
firms represented in the Philippines. Foreign firms are
well represented in the Philippines, competition is keen
and repair facilities adequate.
Civil works required under the project for roads, irriga-
tion and drainage systems, buildings, forestry and con-
servation works would generally be small, of varied design
and geographically scattered. They would not be of



ANNEX III
Page 6
sufficient size nor could they be bulked to attract inter-
national bidders and they would, therefore, be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank. A limited amount of civil
works would be done through force account because of the
remoteness of the areas and the consequent difficulty of
attracting bids from local contractors. An assurance would
be obtained from the Government that the amount of work done
by force account would not exceed 40% of the total cost of
the civil works unless otherwise agreed by the Bank during
implementation.
Consultants:     Consultants would be employed by DAR (i) not later than
November 30, 1977, to assist with the development of a
monitoring and evaluation system for the project, and
(ii) not later than May 31, 1978 to assist with the
preparation of a 10-year program for settlement development,
and for feasibility studies and detailed settlement programs
for new and existing settlement areas, for a total of 110 man-
years, of which 6 man-years would be for foreign consultants.
The average cost of foreign consultants is estimated at about
$5,500 per man-month.
Rate of Return: The weighted average economic rate of return for the project
is 28%.
Appraisal Report: No. 1441a-PH, dated March 14, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (LAND SETTLEMENT) PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable for Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: The project
was prepared by the Government of the Philippines in approximately
twelve months (June 1975 - June 1976).
(b) First presentation to Bank: September, 1975.
(c) Departure of appraisal mission: June/July, 1976.
(d) Completion of negotiations: April, 1977
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: August 26, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
(a) Bank staff will during the coming months need to review:
(i) progress made by the Government in establishing the
special project fund;
(ii) progress made by the Government in ratifying the Presidential
Letter of Instruction (LOI).
(iii) arrangements made by the Inter-Agency Project
Coordinating Committee in preparing the annual
work plan, project budget and firm funding for
Philippine FY77 and progress in preparing that of
FY78;



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
1.          The Borrower agreed during negotiations that:
(a) to establish a special project fund prior to the loan becoming
effective, which fund would be replenished at monthly intervals
to a level equivalent to the estimated requirements for the
next two months (para. 43);
(b) to revise procedures and guidelines for land allocation and to
establish Land Committees in each of the three settlement areas,
not later than December 31, 1977 (para. 41);
(c) that its Department of Public Highways and its National Irrigation
Administration for their respective components would submit
detailed plans and designs for specific works to be undertaken
to the Bank for approval before construction would begin (para. 40);
(d) to submit to the Bank before final Government approval, the
annual work plans and project budgets prepared by the Inter-
Agency Project Coordinating Committee (IPCC) and by the Central
Project Management Unit of the Department of Agrarian Reform
(para. 36);
(e) that it would endeavor to ensure that the Capiz rural bank would
be operational by June 30, 1979, and that prior to any disbursement
of the loan proceeds to a rural bank in the settlement areas, a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the
Government and the Central Bank would have to be concluded, and the
rural bank would have to be in full compliance with the Central
Bank's normal eligibility criteria for access to its special time
deposit and rediscounting facilities (paras. 39, 44 and 47);
(f) to establish an Irrigator Service Association (ISA) in each
irrigation area under the Project, which would be responsible for
ensuring collection of dues for cost recovery purposes and for
system maintenance and to consult annually with the Bank on
the adequacy of these arrangements and the level of dues and
water charges in the Philippines (para. 48);
(g) the amount of civil works done by force account would not
exceed 40% of the total cost of the works unless otherwise
agreed by the Bank (para. 46);
(h) to employ consultants by November 30, 1977 with qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank to assist with the development of a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project (para. 37);



ANNEX IV
Page 3
(i) to appoint the Project Manager, the senior staff of the Central
Project Management Unit, and the Area Managers in consultation
with the Bank (paras. 37 and 38);
(j) to complete and make available to the Bank a 10-year program for
settlement development by December 31, 1980, and feasibility
studies and detailed settlement programs for 200,000 ha of new
and existing settlements by December 31, 1979; and to employ by
May 31, 1978 consultants with qualifications, experience terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank to assist
with this work (para. 37);
(k) that prior to procurement of equipment to carry out soil conser-
vation measures, it would discuss and agree with the Bank the
technical specifications of the equipment required, and the
detailed design of the erosion control works to be under-
taken (para. 39).



IBRD 12483
12550'                        NOVEMBER 97
\ _ /____________FUTURE_1_1POSSBLE  FuTuR
:R 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
G/~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~                        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~ \AE -  V-Is  M%  
IRRIGAT ON PROJECI.)
BIOS HA)
8R35'                                                               ---. -35-
X   PO5518t 11/11RE F103  PIA N   4 9  t     -/  Nat,ornoi Rood under CoVsIr~cI 011
11,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
\ X t               ||   125-50'   ralomreris~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  2  3  4
es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,e
I2YSO'






IBRD 12484
NOVEMBER 1976
124-00'
New Mendes
tNew Eden         N7-.wo
>dofl)~~~~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~        -              EIa @ @ z so o  5  .i ;oIsoon
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
w  nburis      v     )!  ~~   4  .        KuYRPigtour :n  L
/X0,                SETTLEor(wan  \.  Ste;  anoP                    r o  AreAR
Pudonga                    +s     \ ) Adruy3! >     _          SeeA      n
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        - Bondr Areagc  Surveyed t.  -
Em  risF                                      KUY Lc olng   A l\ I  C  ;rr 
S 9 _D o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  n
^ yE  KAL  PAANANNUKA
l^ ^ r IanGA TINni
-t { K~ALLANGAN 
||\,<9   |       \                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES
-tl   \             l        ~~~~~RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
l  j              8        ~~~~~~~BUKIDNON SETTLEMENT AREA
l 9                               _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Irrigation Areas
pt,"ef bJ Ih.   124-0  9   t.   .  )  |      1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Feasibility Study Area
^ 9200 ho \ jB l l~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bcrcngoy Roads
;_  ,  M     t   : bongshun            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N * Roads to be Improved
I r 5 71 ' . \\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
. ,,<, . . 1 . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Settlement Area Boundary
.   -  -   17     <,   0                 _  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boundary Arera Surveyed
,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1'          2 3 4 5 6 7 s






%          12 2- 4 5bumn                                                       122'122  45 
UZON
F~~~' X                                                /'> 
IA   11' 2I I'20'
kRANTONAb  \   1RRIGAT0o5|-*             RRLDV MAAPN PYROONJ
-D4                         S;oo  -   '7an Anton,oF                                   C    S       ARE
bxzjes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pooe IrUoio Areas r/ I  .  r
r 0drneez                           ano                                          onglanre hy he  1_   s  t   S   n R
SFSEMN   ato 9   {@ Q Ur A  gao                               Rod To E-e Omosed
/  -' Ns R  PH o LPPINeS
Low-nz>a_                   =                                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
To Dumo,,,, -I       EV                        DUMAR                               CAPIZ SETTLEMENT AREA
RIP                                                            o I   I  e sed .tAe ondrasy
v  QUAR                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - -  Trancks  oudr
Agln. N0                        R22er



