C-3
Report No 1441a-PH                               FILE    COP
Philippines: Appraisal of a Rural                                  Y
Development (Land Settlement) Project
(Rural Development 11)
April 28,1977                                     RETURN  TOC
Agriculture and Rural Development Department   REPORTS DESK
Rural Development Division                          WITHIN
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U~~~~~~~
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance ot their ofticial duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              = Pesos (1) 7.50
f 1.00               = US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.3886 square  miles
1 meter (m)                       39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2)               10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)             =  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)  = 810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)                  0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                =   2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                   50 kg
20 cavans                           1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ASC   - Agricultural Service Center
ARES - Agrarian Reform Education Service (DAR)
BAEX  - Bureau of Agricultural Extension (DA)
BBR   - Bureau of Barangay Roads (DPH)
BFD   - Bureau of Forest Development (DNR)
BLADD - Bureau of Land Acquisition, Design and Development (DAR)
BPI   - Bureau of Plant Industry (DA)
BS    - Bureau of Soils (DA)
BURE  - Bureau of Resettlement (DAR)
CPMU - Central Project Management Unit
DA    - Department of Agriculture
DAP   - Development Academy of the Philippines
DAR   - Department of Agrarian Reform
DH    - Department of Health
DLGCD - Department of Local Government and Community Development
DNR   - Department of National Resources
DPH   - Department of Public Highways
FMT   - Farm Management Technician
IPCC - Inter-agency Project Coordinating Committee
MARA - Mindanao Agricultural--Resettlement Agency
NEDA - National Economic Development Authority
NGA   - National Grains Authority
NIA   - National Irrigation Administration
FISCAL YEAR
Government:   January 1 to December 31
CB:           January 1 to December 31
Rural Banks:  January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Summary and Conclusions                                                 i-iv
I.  Introduction                                                       1
II.  Background                                                         1
General                                                          1
Agriculture and Rural Development                                1
Land Resources and Population Pressure                           2
Land Settlement Program                                          3
III.  Project Settlements                                                4
Selection Criteria                                              4
Specific Features                                                5
IV.  Project Components                                                 8
Summary                                                         8
Detailed Features                                                9
A. Program Support                                             9
B.  Settlement Development                                   10
V.  Project Costs and Finance                                         16
Cost Estimates                                                 16
Financing                                                      18
Budgeting                                                      18
Procurement                                                    18
Disbursements                                                   19
Accounts and Audit                                              20
VI.  Organization and Management                                       20
General                                                         20
Central Project Management Unit                                 20
Organization at Settlement Level                                21
Project Committee                                               22
Reports and Annual Work Plans                                   23
Implementation                                                  23
VII.  Production, Marketing and Farm Incomes                            23
' Introduction                                                    23
Farm and Crop Development                                       23
Production                                                      25
Marketing and Prices                                            26
Farmer Benefits                                                 27
Environmental Impact                                            28
Thi document hM a auiced dntribution and may be usd   rcipiet onb a the performance
of their official duties. Its contnts may not otherwise be dck_d without Wofid bnk author*_on.



-2-
Page
VIII.  Economic Benefits and Costs                                        28
Project Objectives                                              28
Replicability and Cost Recovery                                 29
Economic Rate of Return and Project Risks                       29
IX.  Recommendations                                                    30
Annexes
1. Support for the Forward Settlement Program
2. A Profile of the Project Settlements
* 3. Farm and Crop Development
* 4. Crop and Farm Budgets
* 5. Agricultural Technical Services
* 6. Agricultural Credit
* 7. Cooperatives Development
* 8. Marketing
* 9. Infrastructure
*10. Land Allocation
*11.  Settlement Health Services
*12. Forestry Component
13. Project Costs and Accounts
14. Disbursements
*15. Project Organization and Management
*16.  Personnel Development and Development Support Communications
*17. Monitoring and Evaluation
18. Economic Analysis
19. Schedule of Early Events
Maps
Agusan Settlement Area, No. 12483
Bukidnon Settlement Area, No. 12484
Capiz Settlement Area, No. 12485
The report is based on the findings of the mission that visited the
Philippines in July 1976, consisting of Messrs. S. V. Allison, M. Furst,
C. Keil, B. MacLeod and D. Leeuwrik; and on the findings of a follow-up
mission in February 1977 consisting of Messrs. A. M. Mercer, B. MacLeod
and R. R. Patten (consultant), assisted by Mr. D. J. Steel (Loan Officer,
Philippines, AEA).
* Retained in Project File - available on request.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Philippines (GOP) has requested the Bank to
assist with the reformulation and implementation of its ongoing land settle-
ment program administered through the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR).
Faced with (i) the situation of increasing land scarcity; (ii) spontaneous
movement of rural landless families into the remaining underdeveloped public
lands; and (iii) the need to provide an agricultural livelihood for families
displaced as a result of ongoing development programs, Government is giving
renewed emphasis to programs of organized land development and settlement.
The proposed project would (i) strengthen and support the technical capacity
of DAR to more effectively plan and design land development programs for set-
tlement areas, (ii) accelerate development in three of the older settlement
areas through integrated programs aimed at improving the living conditions
of existing farmer populations and (iii) through implementation in the three
settlements, test the collective impact of a number of GOP ongoing programs
of special relevance to low income rural people, including village road and
small-scale irrigation programs, cooperative development and agricultural
credit, agricultural extension, demonstration and farmer training systems,
rural health and family planning services.
ii.       The project would be the Bank's second rural development project in
the Philippines, following the Mindoro project (Loan no. 1102-PH, dated July
28, 1975), and the first project to give primary emphasis to the development
of rainfed agriculture in a mixed upland-lowland terrain. Progress under the
Mindoro project is satisfactory, as is the case for 13 other projects addressed
to rural problems in the Philippines that are currently under supervision.
iii.      Organized settlement and development of public lands has been a
program of the Philippine government since before the Second World War and
has been administered by a variety of agencies. Currently, the program is a
responsibility of the DAR, which was created in 1971 with a broad mandate
to carry out agrarian reform policies and programs. The Department had 34
settlements under its jurisdiction in 1976, accounting for about 700,000
ha of land and over 400,000 people, settlements being scattered throughout
the Philippines, though mainly in Mindanao island. Many of these settlements
were originally opened up in the mid-1950s and early 1960s, when for a time
the program attracted considerable resources. Progress since then has been
slow, much productive potential remains unutilized and living standards among
the resident populations are typically well below national or even rural
standards for the Philippines.
iv.       Government is aware that the planning and implementation of an
effective settlement program will require a number of changes in organizational
arrangements and procedures. Under the proposed project, DAR's manpower and
resources would be focused on settlement design, planning, policy formulation
and coordination. At field level, the project would support the extension of
the programs of a number of agencies to the selected settlements, in contrast
with the present situation where DAR itself has attempted to provide directly



- ii -
a wide range of developmental services, including force account construction
of roads and irrigation, agricultural advisory services, credit, and community
services. During project preparation, detailed plans were worked out for
three of the existing larger settlements, accounting for about 10% of the
total area and about one-fifth of the total settlement population. These
areas are situated in the Dumarao-Cuatero area of Capiz province (25,000 ha
and 26,000 population), in the Prosperidad-Talacogon area of Agusan del Sur
Province (16,000 ha and 10,000 people) and in the Pangantucan-Kalilangan area
of Bukidnon province (36,000 ha and 46,000 people). There are a further 10
large settlement areas, of 25,000 ha or more, many of which have similar
problems and potentials and for which Government is preparing new development
plans.
V.        The composition of the proposed project would be as follows:
a.   Technical Assistance
-    At Headquarter level, in the DAR, the project would
establish a Central Project Management Unit (CPMU),
with capability (i) to provide technical supervision
and overall management of the development progams to
be undertaken in the settlement areas selected for
accelerated development under the project, including
evaluation; (ii) to undertake identification and pre-
paratory studies of possible new areas of public land
suitable for development on the basis of settlement by
small farmers and of existing, partially developed
settlement areas; and (iii) to assist and advise GOP
in drawing up a 10-year policy perspective and program
for settlement. These activities would be undertaken
by a small staff group supplmented by consultancy
services, both local and expatriate.
b.   Area Development
In the three settlements selected for accelerated devel-
opment, the project would support the following principal
activities:
-   construction and improvement of 290 km of farm-to-market
roads and upgrading of access roads; minor irrigation
and drainage works covering 5,000 ha; housing, multi-
purpose buildings and equipment for field staff; village
water supplies and sanitation; and village health units;
-   a program of village woodlots (fuelwood) and small
forests covering 5,000 ha; and mechanical and manual
soil conservation on 10,000 ha;



- iii -
services for extension, farmer training and com-
munication; community and cooperative development;
agricultural trials and demonstration farms;
-   term credit for work animals and implements,
threshers, crop driers, abaca establishment,
processing and marketing facilities. Seasonal
credit for crops (rice, sugar, corn, coffee
and abaca).
vi.       The project would be executed over a five-year period.  Total cost
is estimated at about US$33 million, including seasonal credit requirements.
Contingencies would amount to US$8.5 million, of which US$6.1 million would be
for expected price increases during the five-year period. The proposed Bank
loan of US$15 million equivalent would finance 50% of total costs excluding
duties and taxes, comprising estimated foreign exchange requirements (US$11.8
million) and 18% of local currency costs (US$3.2 million). GOP would fund
other costs through annual budget appropriations.
vii.      Civil works (US$12.8 million) required under the project for road
construction, irrigation and drainage, scheme buildings and facilities includ-
ing agricultural facilities would generally be small, of varied design and
geographically scattered. They would not be of sufficient size to attract
international bidders and would therefore be constructed under contract
following local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable. A
limited amount of civil works in more remote areas would be undertaken by
force account where contractor interest is insufficient to secure competitive
bids. Equipment and vehicles for force account construction, operation and
maintenance (US$1.8 million) would be bulked into sizeable packages and
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the CIF price of imported
goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Items financed under term credit
(US$1.8 million) would be obtained in the local market, where competition is
keen and repair facilities adequate. Contracts for locally available consul-
tants and technical services (US$0.6 million) would be awarded after local
advertisement in accordance with standard GOP procedures. Contracts with
foreign firms or individuals (US$0.4 million) would be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines on the Uses of Consultants and on terms and condi-
tions approved by the Bank.
viii.     Project execution would be coordinated and supervised by a Central
Project Management Unit, established in DAR and responsible to the Secretary
of the Department. The Manager for the proposed project has been appointed and
suitable candidates for the three Area Manager posts have been selected.
Project management would be assisted by an internationally recruited advisor
with suitable experience and qualifications. Individual agency responsibil-
ities for implementation would be set out in the form of a Presidential Letter
of Instruction which is now ready for signature.



- iv -
ix.       Farm and crop development under the proposed project would primar-
ily involve rice, corn, abaca and sugar. Incremental rice and corn production
would contribute to closing the food deficit of the Philippines; abaca and
sugar would contribute to foreign exchange earnings. Incremental production
at full development is estimated at 37,000 tons of rice, 26,000 tons of corn,
15,000 tons of sugar and 4,000 tons of abaca fiber.
x.        Current per capita incomes are estimated to be about US$60 per
capita equivalent in the Capiz and Bukidnon settlements and below US$40
in Agusan, all well below the general poverty threshold calculated for the
Philippines as a whole at US$140. Incomes reflect extremely low levels of
productivity in these remote and hitherto neglected areas of the country,
which have resulted in exceptionally poor conditions. Over approximately
a 12-year period, after allowing for some increase in population, especially
in Agusan, where settlement is not yet complete, incomes should increase to
an average level varying from US$100 - 160 per capita. While these benefits
can be expected to accrue in varing amounts, in part reflecting the quality
of the landholding and in part the vigor and enterprise of the settler far-
mer, nevertheless a broad diffusion would be achieved with on-farm employ-
ment projected to increase by 80% as a result of the project. Since very
few farmers in the settlements have incomes above the poverty threshold and
since diversion of benefits through absentee land ownership is limited, the
distributional impact is very favorable.
xi.       On the basis of the agreed investment plan and phasing of projected
benefits, the economic rate of return would be about 28% overall, 17% in
Agusan, 31% in Bukidnon and 41% in Capiz settlement area. The project bene-
fits are based on assumptions that incorporate a relatively long development
period and prudent estimates of yield at full development. The relatively
high rates also reflect the considerable sunk costs in farm establishment and
physical infrastructure, especially in Bukidnon and Capiz. Costs per family
for incremental fixed investments under the proposed project, measured at
baseline economic values, including physical contingencies, would be US$2,200
in Agusan, US$1,200 in Bukidnon and US$800 in Capiz. On the other hand, the
project has significant risks, notably the uncertainty of response to improved
technology on the part of low income farmers operating under rainfed condi-
tions, market uncertainties for some crops (though project risks are reason-
ably spread over four different crops), and the integrated and coordinated
response called for on the part of the participating agencies. Nevertheless,
the economic justification for the proposed project is a strong one. With
realized benefits only half those projected, the overall rate of return would
sLill be acceptable, at 15%.
xii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million
for a period of 20 years at the standard Bank rate. The borrower would be the
Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group assist-
ance to strengthen the settlement program administered by the Department
of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and to finance the ongoing development of three
existing settlement areas, one on the island of Panay, about 400 km from
Manila, and two on Mindanao, about 800 km from the capital. At the central
level, program strengthening would be accomplished through creation of a
project unit within the DAR, together with the technical and financial re-
sources required to execute a series of critical policy and planning studies
for settlement development, in addition to management of the field level
activity. In the settlement areas selected, the project would support pro-
grams of infrastructural, agricultural and institutional development, designed
to increase agricultural production and to bring standards of living to levels
comparable with those of more favored rural areas in the Philippines.
1.02      The project was prepared by the Government of the Philippines with
assistance from Bank staff. This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission which visited the Philippines in July 1976, composed of
Messrs. S. V. Allison, M. Furst, C. Keil, B. MacLeod and D. Leeuwrik (Bank).
A follow up mission consisting of A. Mercer, B. MacLeod (Bank) and R. Patten
(Consultant) discussed a draft report with Government in January 1977.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2
2.01      The Philippines covers some 297,000 km  scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China Sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 43 million
(1975), growing at a rate of about 2.8% annually. Real GNP, which had a
trend growth rate of 5% to 6% in the 1960s, grew by 10% in 1973 due to high
prices for export commodities, but has grown at only about 6% in 1974-75
as some industries have been adversely affected by the recession in the
Philippines' trading partners. Inflation related to high export prices and
increased oil and food prices was a major problem in 1974, but abated markedly
in 1975. Unequal income distribution and underemployment remain major eco-
nomic problems, together with high population growth.
Agriculture and Rural Development
2.02      Almost three quarters of the population in the Philippines live
in the rural areas, where social services are poor, economic activities
limited, agricultural productivity low and underemployment high. Character-
tistic of Philippine agriculture are the dominance of small farms and the



pervasiveness of tenancy, particularly among rice and corn farmers. To remedy
past neglect, the government is giving high priority to the economic develop-
ment of rural areas, and is complementing its economic programs with actions
designed to increase the share of benefits that accrue to the small producer.
These actions include agrarian reform (transfer of land title to tenant
tillers, leasehold reform and land settlement programs), innovative programs
for cooperative development to provide access to institutional credit and
other services, extension and supervised credit programs better geared to
the needs of small farmers, and improved provision for health care and other
social needs in rural areas.
2.03      Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in determining
whether the drive towards a rapid but more equitable income expansion suc-
ceeds. The major goals for the sector are self-sufficiency in cereals,
particularly rice and corn; development of the livestock and fisheries sector;
expansion of agricultural exports; better conservation of natural resources;
and strengthening of institutional support.  Agriculture acecounts for about
one-third of net domestic product, about 55% of total employment and 70% of
export earnings.  During the 1960s the rate of growth of agricultural output
accelerated gradually and averaged 4.2% per year for the 1965-70 period,
stimulated mainly by the spread of improved rice varieties.  During the next
five years, the spread of new varieties decreased; typhoons in 1972 and high
fertilizer prices in 1974 further affected agricultural output. The trend
growth rate of rice production from 1970 to 1976 was 2.7% a year. Much of the
growth of employment in recent years has taken place in agriculture and
although value added per worker in agriculture has increased in current
prices, it has declined in real terms, implying growing rural underemployment.
Land Resources and Population Pressure
2.04      The substantial expansion of domestic food and feed supplies the
government is hoping to achieve are likely to be met mainly from programmed
developments of rural infrastructure, particularly of irrigation, and improved
services to agriculture that are addressed mainly to the traditional lowland
areas of food crop production in the Philippines. But an effective program to
tackle the agricultural problems of the mixed and upland areas, including
settlement areas, would also contribute significantly. Moreover, without more
effective programs for these areas a substantial element of the land base
could be subject to an irreversible loss in potential through inappropriate
land management and land use following unplanned, spontaneous incursions of
landless migrants.
2.05      Historically, most underdeveloped land has been in Mindanao island,
and with a continuing, largely spontaneous flow of rural migrants, the rural
population of Mindanao, now about 7.5 million, has continued to grow rapidly,
by about 50% during the 1960s, after doubling during the 1950s. But a number
of indicators suggest that the relatively easy phase of expansion of the land
frontier has now come to an end. In the Philippines as a whole, the rate of
expansion of the cultivated areas has fallen from over 3% per annum in the



- 3 -
L950s to less than 1% per annum in the 1970s. By the early 1970s the net
migratory flow to rural Mindanao had slowed to a trickle. Agricultural
census data show a trend towards smaller holding size due to fragmentation,
particularly in rice cultivation, indicating the increasing pressure on the
agricultural land base of the nation. The pressure on land is likely to
iincrease for at least another 20 years; with the most optimistic assumptions,
there will still be roughly half a million more farm families in 1996 than in
1L976. With the currently available farm technology and projected improvements
iLn living standards, each family would need 3-5 ha of mixed quality unirrigated
land to attain reasonable minimum level of income, calling for about 2 mil-
lion additional ha of new land to be made available.
2.06      Because of the lack of a complete inventory of lands in the Philip-
pines and inadequate mapping, it is not possible to estimate the potential for
future land development and settlement with any precision. Nearly one-third
of the total land area of 30 million ha is yet to be classified and this area
contains most of the sites for new settlement development on public lands. In
many cases, land becomes available for settlement as logging is completed and,
while classified as generally suitable for agricultural development, often a
substantial portion would in fact be better suited to permanent forest or tree
cropping. The typically broken terrain makes access to the relatively small
pockets of lowland difficult and adds on extra dimension to the formidable
.Land clearing and land development problems faced by settler farmers. In
general, these areas are of only moderate agronomic potential, with a mix of
upland and lowland terrain that requires careful land management if the full
potential is to be realized and sustained.
Land Settlement Program (Annex 1)
2.07      Organized settlement and development of public lands has been a
program of Philippine Government since before the second world war and has
been administered by a variety of agencies. Currently, the program is a
responsibility of the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR), which was created
in 1971 with a broad mandate to carry out agrarian reform policies and pro-
grams. Settlement areas are established by presidential proclamation from
:Lands of the public domain which have been classified as "alienable and
disposable", i.e. suitable for agricultural usage. Substantial legislative
and executive authority exists for the Department to undertake directly or
through contract all major activities relating to settlement development.
Wlithin such designated areas, the DAR through a settlement field team backed
by services from higher level units, can undertake a range of activities
including: survey, layout and allocation of farm and house lots to newly
arrived or locally approved settlers; construction of community buildings,
roads and irrigation facilities; administration of loans for settler housing,
work animals and implements; organization of farmer cooperatives; and provision
of agricultural extension services.
2.08      The Department had 34 settlements under its jurisdiction in 1976,
accounting for about 700,000 ha of land settlements being scattered through-
out the Philippines, though mainly in Mindanao island. Settlements vary in



- 4 -
extent from 100,000 ha down to areas as small as 1,000 ha, with about 75% of
the total land in settlements of 25,000 ha or more. The total population,
consisting in great part of low income farmers, is probably about 400,000.
About two-thirds of this total are registered settler families or family
members, the remainder being either descendants of original settlers or
occupants of public land in areas not yet surveyed and allocated. Most
settlements were originally opened up in the mid-1950s and until the early
1960s the program attracted considerable resources. Progress since then has
been slow, few settlements have been fully developed, and development of newer
areas is held back pending completion of operations in these older areas.
The failure to achieve an adequate level of performance has weakened the case
of the agency to obtain the necessary resources vis-a-vis other claims on the
budget and competing priorities, thus accentuating the problems. In general,
only limited development work is presently ongoing in the older settlement
areas and in most the bulk of the activity of the field team is taken up with
ongoing administrative routine - minor repair to existing roads, bridge
breakdown etc., adjudication of land disputes, provision of some medical and
community services. Substantial inefficiencies in program execution are also
in evidence. For example, while heavy equipment for road construction may be
available to a settlement, budgetary support for its operation may be so
inadequate as to idle that equipment for much of the year; similarly, a
resident settlement team of 25-35 staff may be left to operate with only one
(fully depreciated) vehicle.
2.09      Many problems stem from the lack of a planning framework both for
the settlement program as a whole and for each individual settlement. The
program is lacking a comprehensive framework or strategy to address such
critical questions as: the scope of the program of settlement in relation to
competing uses for public land, criteria for selection of areas in the public
domain for settlement development and appropriate time sequencing of activities
in areas selected. Settlement development is not "projectized" with a specific
rationale for proposed actions and time horizon for their accomplishment
leading to the phasing out of operations. Resolution of outstanding issues
both for policy planning and implementation is now more urgent given the higher
priority governemnt is according to settlement. With some 25 settlement teams
in the country (and more planned to start up in newly proclaimed settlement
areas), the operating expenses of the program accounts for about V7 million
per annum. Capital outlay has averaged some 100 million per annum for the
past three years for the department as a whole, the bulk of which is destined
for settlement development.
III. PROJECT SETTLEMENTS
Selection Criteria
3.01      Project components (Chapter IV) have been formulated to alleviate
the program constraints outlined in Chapter II. Complimentary to actions



directed towards improvements in the design and implementation of the settle-
ment program as a whole, existing settlements would be developed on a selec-
tive basis under the proposed project. The expectation is that practical
experience in developing these settlements would provide a depth and focus
for the work of reformulating the broader policies and operational guidelines.
The settlements selected have problems representative of those found in a
wider range of areas, have reasonable productive potential, and are of suffi-
cient size to warrant a more intensive application of technical, financial and
human resources. The three selected exhibit the mix of more and less produc-
tive upland and lowland terrain which is characteristic of settlements every-
where in the Philippines, and all three are presently at, or only a little
above subsistence farming in terms of current agronomic practice and levels of
living. All three will also benefit from planned or ongoing major roadworks
affecting their access to main market outlets. As indicated by the locational
inserts on the project maps (attached) the islands of Panay and Mindanao are
both remote from Manila and, within these large islands, the settlement areas
selected are isolated by considerable stretches of poor road from the prin-
cipal centers of population and government services. In Capiz and Bukidnon
road improvements will be supported by the IBRD Third Highway loan, with work
to be completed in 1979/80. In Agusan, the main highway linking the settlement
north and south with major ports is to be completed this current year with
bilateral assistance.
Specific Features 1/
3.02      The settlement in Agusan del Sur, a province on the island of
Mindanao, is the smallest and least developed of the three selected. It
was activated in 1968 with a total land area of about 16,500 ha, of which
an estimated 3,000-5,000 ha are currently cultivated by 1,700 families.
The topography of the project area in large part consists of broken terrain
with some extensive flat areas along the rivers. Altitude varies from 10-30
meters above sea level in the flatter portions to about 200 meters in the
uplands. The area is drained by small and intermittent creeks which discharge
into the bigger drainageways of the Gibong and Agusan rivers.  The flat
portions of the settlement area are devoted to lowland rice, although a large
portion remains in secondary forest and bush.  Highland areas are covered
mainly by secondary forest growth with patches planted to abaca, corn, upland
rice, root and tree crops.  Forests are of the primary type on the higher
slopes.  Loam and clay loam soils in the level areas are poorly drained; soils
on the slope are subject to erosion when cleared. Rainfall is heavy (3,300 mm
per annum) with no real dry season; at a low altitude, the climate of the
area is humid and tropical. The settlement area sits to the east of a vast
zone of mixed upland/lowland terrain (including extensive swamps to the
south) which is presently still subject to logging operations, but which is
gradually being made more accessible. Successful development of the settlement
1/   A profile of the three settlements is provided in Annex 2 of this
report; Annex 3 describes the agronomic potential and existing farming
systems.



-6-
area would provide a model applicable to this larger area. The environmental
and human costs likely to be associated with unplanned expansions and incur-
sions otherwise likely to take place can thus be avoided. Population density
in the Agusan del Sur Province, at less than 20 persons per sq km, is among
the lowest in the Philippines.
3.03      Incomes of the resident population, over 90% of whom list farming
as principal activity, are the lowest among the three settlements, with 84%
reporting less than F3,000 per annum per family (equivalent to US$400) in
the survey conducted in September 1975 for project preparation. Crop yields
are uniformly low in the area even by Philippine standards, with major factors
being the difficult agricultural conditions (excessively steep slopes in the
upland areas, poorly drained lowland areas and much primary land clearing
to be completed) combining with an extremely poor development of access and
connecting roads and relative isolation from main markets. The farm plot
layout, which up to now has been on a grid pattern of equal sized holdings
regardless of agronomic potential, has also hindered on-farm development and
contributed to farmers' problems. Of the total population, about 700 are
legal settlers, with certificates of allocation from DAR, with the remainder
being considered as prospective applicants. The registered settlers occupy
designated farm lots averaging 4.6 ha, of which some 840 have thus far been
demarcated, covering 3,880 ha. For most villages, supplies and produce are
moved by back-pack or carabao-drawn sled over tracks or deteriorated logging
trails. Over 80% of the population live in straw huts, without water supply
systems; medical facilities are limited to one health station manned by a
DAR doctor; malaria and schistosomiasis are endemic in the area and fever/
pneumonia related illnesses are a common cause of death.
3.04      The settlement in the province of Bukidnon, also in Mindanao island,
is the largest of those selected, with over 7,000 families (mid-1975 census
data) or almost 50,000 people, distributed over 36,000 ha of which approxi-
mately 19,000 ha or 55% are under crops. The topography conforms to that of
a semi-denuded inclined plateau, with incised fast flowing streams, at eleva-
tions of 500-1,100 meters above sea level. The land form is basically one of
rolling and undulating slopes with limited areas of flat land, mainly in
the area of Kalilangan. Vegetation is mostly cultivated crops and grasses,
with some residual forests on the mountainous slopes; a substantial volume
of corn is grown for cash sale and lesser amonts of rice for local consump-
tion. The settlement area experiences no very pronounced maximum rainfall
period and no totally dry season. Rainfall varies from 400-500 mm per month
in the wettest period (May-October) and falls below 100 mm per month in
the period January-March. Soils belong mainly to clay and clay loam series,
with top soil of moderate depth and well drained. The problem of accelerated
soil erosion is evident in certain areas and under continuous cropping without
fertilizer, extensive depletion of natural fertility is occurring. An effec-
tive approach to the agricultural problems of the settlement is of potentially
wide application in the much larger corn growing area of the Bukidnon plateau,
an area with a population of about half a million growing rapidly at a



rate approaching 8% per annum. The Bukidnon settlement is also directly
linked with a series of settlements comprising some 250,000 ha, that run
roughly southwest into the Cotabato valley many of which are corn/rice areas
with substantial portions underdeveloped.
3.05      While crop yields and incomes are generally low, the Bukidnon
settlement comprises a relatively well developed community, with sizeable
trading centers at Kalilangan and Pangantucan and a considerable degree of
social and economic diversity among the local population. Data collected
in the socio-economic survey indicate about 20% of households with incomes
Of F5,000 or more, 20% in the middle V3,000-5,000 range and 58% at lower
income levels. The average income level among farm households was F2,800,
(about US$65 per capita), about double the average in Agusan. Some 2,500
iramilies were settled in the area during the early active phase of develop-
ment during the 1950s, augmenting a considerable local population clustered
along the lowland valleys. Some 5,000 farm lot subdivisions were made,
mainly in the range of 2 ha in the lowland rice areas, and 6 ha and 8 ha in
t:he upland zones. Twenty years later, the process of abandonment of agro-
nomically worthless plots together with subdivision, sale of user rights and
mortgaging of cultivated lots has considerably modified the original situa-
tion. Of 4,400 currently occupied farm lots, some 7% are in the range 4.5 ha
and below; 86% between 4.5 and 9.5 ha and the remaining 7% of larger size.
I:n many cases, these occupied farm lots have been further subdivided in terms
of de facto usage. Despite the length of period since settlement, and con-
siderable changes occurring during that time, relatively few land patents
(see Annex 1) have been applied for and fewer still issued. Lack of title
is an impediment to farm investment in permanent assets and in obtaining
t:erm credit for work animals, implements and development loans for plantation
or other permanent crops.
3.06      The road network within the settlement, while better developed than
in either Agusan or Capiz, remains extremely poor, and poses continuing prob-
lems in evacuating crop surplus and receiving crop inputs. Partly for this
reason, farmgate prices are well below economically appropriate levels and
below GOP support levels which inhibits the adoption of improved tech-
nology. DAR agricultural staff are largely ineffectual for want of techn-
nical back up from subject matter specialists, organized work schedules and
materials for demonstration and farmer training; the lack of adequate seed
supply and timely availability of fertilizer have also hindered the efforts
of the technicians; only in 1976 was a rural bank established in Kalilangan
to provide institutional credit to local farmers.
3.07      The Capiz settlement on the island of Panay covers a total land
area of 25,000 ha, of which about 10,000 ha are cultivated, and has a popu-
lation of 4,600 families, roughly 25,000 people. The topography of the
project area is generally mountainous, undulating to extremely steep slopes,
with some rolling to relatively flat land and numerous isolated valley bottoms
associated with the many rivers and creeks that crisscross the area. The



main types of vegetation in the area are secondary forest, grasses, and
cultivated crops. Considerable portions of the upland have been abandoned for
cultivation, allowing grasses and shrubs to grow. The grass vegetation is
extensive and predominantly imperata. Principal crops are sugar cane and
rice. The area has no pronounced dry season and climate is of the humid
tropical type. Rainfall exceeds 200 mm per month May-December and averages
2,000 mm per annum. Clay and clay loam soils are predominant, which are
readily susceptible to erosion due to runoff on moderate slopes, and erosion
control measures are necessary on the now relatively small upland area suit-
able for and still subject to cultivation.
3.08      Unlike either the Bukidnon or Agusan del Sur settlements, the Capiz
settlement had been opened up under the Homestead Acts well before the settle-
ment proclamation in 1965 so that a considerable population was resident
at that time, with established and, in some cases, patented land rights.
Hence, very little resettlement into the area has been possible and only 6% of
the population are migrants from other provinces of the Philippines. Without
a stong pioneer focus, the Capiz settlement has not developed its own centers
of populations to any marked degree, and up to now has relied for services
on municipal centers located outside the settlement area, especially Dumarao.
Under the administration of the settlement authority, some 3,000 farm lots
were surveyed and all-ocated, two-thirds to the existing population and the
remainder to local pioneers. While the basic allocation was 5 ha-6 ha plots,
pre-existing land rights were validated and in some cases under the Homestead
Act these lots were up to 24 ha in extent. Many of the lots have since
been formally or informally subdivided, with currently second or third genera-
tion occupancy of the land. There is also a substantial group of some 800
tenant farmers who have been identified as potential beneficiaries under land
reform, involving 300 owners and some 1,300 ha of land in the settlement area.
Socioeconomic differences associated with landholding are accentuated by
the marked differences in profitability of crops, notably as between sugar
and upland rice/corn. Income data collected during preparation show an
average of r2,700, about the same level as for Bukidnon settlement. But it
is likely that the sample missed many high income households who reside
outside the settlement area but draw their incomes from farming and other
activities inside it. A more skewed income distribution is also suggested by
extremely low incomes at the bottom of the scale.
IV. PROJECT COMPONENTS
Summary
4.01      The project would consist of:
(a) program support to secure improvements in the design
and implementation of the settlement program as a



-9-
whole, including provision for technical assistance
and feasibility studies for new and existing settle-
ments;
(b) support for physical infrastructure development, agri-
cultural and other services in the three selected
settlements.
Detailed Features 1/
4.02      The detailed features of the proposed project are presented below
for the main components.
A. Program Support
4.03      Planning and Technical Studies ($1.3 million):  Expansion in DAR's
capability through technical assistance for (i) feasibility studies and pro-
grams for 200,000 ha of new and existing settlement areas; (ii) definition of
a 10-year action program for settlement development, together with proposals
for revised implementation procedures, agency responsibilities, and appropri-
ate overall policy review (Annex 1). An assurance was obtained that these
studies would be completed by December 1979 (feasibility studies) and December
1980 (policy studies).
4.04      Management Support, Staff Training and Evaluation (US$1.1 million):
Equipment, staffing and technical assistance for a Central Project Management
Unit (CPMU) in Dar to program, supervise and coordinate project activities
(Annex 15). DAR's training capability and training programs for settlement
staff including a limited amount of training abroad would also be strength-
ened; training would focus on the three settlements selected for accelerated
development, but would not be confined to them (Annex 16). Evaluation studies
and monitoring of ongoing progress would be undertaken in all three settlement
areas utilizing local consultants (Annex 17). An assurance was obtained that
DAR would employ qualified consultants to complete a suitable design in con-
sultation with the Bank by November 1977.
4.05      To assist with the activities described under 4.03 and 4.04, provi-
sion would be included for up to 36 man-months of international expertise on
short term contract and for substantial locally available assistance from
private firms and other institutions. Internationally recruited consultants
would be employed primarily to train government technicians through practical
example and on the job demonstration so as to strengthen government capabili-
ties to prepare future projects. Project management would also be assisted by
an internationally recruited advisor, to be hired for a three-year term, who
would bring to bear international experience in settlement development both
1/   Project costs are quoted in June 1977 prices, updated from July 1976
appraisal estimates and include physical contingencies.



- 10 -
for field level implementation and in the programming aspects of future set-
tlement development. A suitable candidate for this post has been selected;
his appointment is proposed as a condition of loan effectiveness.
B. Settlement Development (Three Settlements)
4.06      Road Construction (US$9.9 million):  A more adequate road network
both within the settlement areas and for access to major routes outside
the settlements is an essential condition for future agricultural development.
290 km of village feeder roads would be constructed or upgraded to estab-
lished Barangay Road standards. 140 km of access roads (generally classified
as provincial or national highways) would also be upgraded to a standard
commensurate with prospective usage patterns and traffic densities. In Capiz
settlement, provision is also included for 100 km of low grade tracks, pri-
marily for evacuation of sugar cane from an expanded area of cultivation. The
road lengths were selected for upgrading or construction on the basis of
preliminary surveys conducted during project preparation and would provide
adequate market access for some 85%-90% of farm families resident in the
settlements.
4.07      Road costs (including extensive cross-drainage and bridgework to
replace deteriorated facilities) would range from US$12,000 to US$16,000 equi-
valent per km for new construction and from US$8,000 to US$13,000 per km for
upgrading. Roads would be widened (with minor embankments in low lying areas)
using a bulldozer, followed by surfacing and shaping of the formation by motor
grader and compaction by towed roller. For village roads, the design standard
to be adopted would allow for a formation width of 7.0 meters with a central
section of 4.0 meters surfaced to 20 cm of gravel. A higher standard would be
adopted for upgrading designated national and provincial highways, but traffic
volume does not justify upgrading to full network standards; no extensive re-
alignments are contemplated for these roads.
4.08      The Department of Public Highways (DPH) would be responsible for
detailed design and construction of roads and maintenance of national and
provincial highways; the Bureau of Barangay Roads (BBR), a relatively new
sub-agency of DPH, would be responsible for village road maintenance, pri-
marily through force account. Initial equipment needs for maintenance (US$1.0
million), would be provided under the project. MIaintenance costs, following
construction and initial consolidation, are estimated at between US$800 and
US$1,400 per annum. Some savings might be effected through the use of more
labor intensive techniques which are presently under study in the DPH with ILO
technical assistance. This possibility would be kept under active review
through the life of the project; however, since the largest element in main-
tenance costs is accounted for by transport of gravel from external sources,
the possibility of any great reduction appears to be slight. An assurance
was obtained that detailed proposals, designs and specifications for major
construction or upgrading of project roads would be forwarded by DPH to
the Bank for approval prior to construction (Annex 9).



- 11 -
4.09      Irrigation and Drainage (US$4.0 million):  In all three settlement
areas, opportunities for development of minor irrigation facilities and
improved water management for lowland rice cultivation would be exploited.
Project works range from extremely simple regulatory structures and realign-
ment of existing drainage channels for mini-projects (10-50 ha) with the
work to be done by the farmers or farmer irrigator associations, to slightly
more elaborate schemes involving small diversion structures plus unlined
canals to provide water for service areas that are generally below 500 ha.
The latter schemes are of the communal type, similar to those being developed
under the first Rural Development project in Mindoro island (Loan No. 1102-PH)
by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) and would be constructed to
similar standards. A total of about 3,000 ha would be served by these larger
systems; the total program would serve some 5,100 ha. NIA would prepare
designs for larger systems and would supervise implementation; field engineers
from the DAR would design and supervise construction of smaller systems by
force account, with unskilled labor contributions from farmer beneficiaries.
Cost estimates were based on preliminary designs following field surveys
carried out by NIA and DAR engineers during project preparation. An assurance
was obtained that final design and cost estimates for the three larger systems
would be made available for inspection by Bank staff before construction.
4.10      NIA requires the formation of an Irrigator Service Association (ISA)
of beneficiary farmers to enter into a contractual agreement covering costs,
repayments and water distribution once the feasibility of a scheme is assured.
Formation of these ISAs would be the responsibility of the Department of Local
Government and Cooperative Development (DLGCD) as part of the cooperative
development program. Once built, maintenance and operation of the systems
would be a continuing responsibility of the ISA. Under established NIA pro-
cedures for cost recovery from communal systems, farmer beneficiaries would
be expected to repay amounts equivalent in present value to about one-third of
the capital cost of scheme construction (net of the farmers' own labor con-
tribution). This is about the same recovery as is anticipated under the
larger irrigation systems being constructed in the Philippines with Bank sup-
port. After deduction of other costs including farm labor, participating
farmers would pay between 15 and 20% of their incremental income from irri-
gated rice as loan repayment and system maintenance, which is reasonable
given their low income status. An assurance was obtained that NIA would
make appropriate arrangements for maintenance and for recovery of costs from
the beneficiaries (Annex 9).
4.11      Forestry (US$0.9 million):  Equipment and technical services would
be provided to DAR with objectives (i) to encourage appropriate land use by
planting marginal land to trees or reserving areas for forestry development
and (ii) to meet the requirements of the settlers for wood for fuel building
and other purposes. The Bureau of Forest Development and the Department
of Agriculture would provide technical assistance. In Bukidnon and Capiz
settlements, small blocks (unallocated and abandoned farm lots) would be
planted with quick growing trees total area 2,200 ha, and in Agusan an area
of about 2,800 ha of existing forest, most of which has already been selec-
tively exploited at some time in the past, would be managed according to



- 12 -
sustained yield principles. Small nurseries to supply seedlings of fruit
and amenity trees to farmers in all three settlements, as well as supplying
the seedlings needed for forest plantations in Bukidnon and Capiz, would
also be established (Annex 12).
4.12      Other Land Development (US$0.3 million):  In total between 10,000
and 15,000 ha under cultivation are estimated to be subject to more or less
serious erosion, involving substantial and progressive crop losses. In
the Bukidnon settlement equipment would be provided for the construction of
large transverse bunds, giving protection to some 8,000 ha. Project works
would be carried out by DAR personnel, with technical advice from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture (Bureau of Soils). An assurance was obtained that tech-
nical specifications and detailed design would be discussed with the Bank
prior to procurement of equipment. Elsewhere hand methods would be used,
involving construction of small terraces and use of improved farm practices,
including contour ploughing and crop rotation (Annex 9).
4.13      Agricultural Services (US$2.4 million):  Support would be provided
under the project for adaptive research, extension, and farmer training in
each of the settlements. Services are currently provided by DAR staff, as
part of the resident settlement team. Besides the severe shortage of DAR
technicians, available staff suffer from lack of training and facilities, poor
supervision and weak linkages with ongoing programs of agricultural research
and technical development. Farmer training has been virtually absent in Capiz
and Bukidnon, though in Agusan, the Mindanao Agricultural Resettlement Agency
(MARA) - a private body sponsored by the Philippine Council of Churches - has
been providing such services, under an agreement with the DAR.
4.14       Because of the backward condition of these areas, a greater input
by well-trained staff is needed, together with a stronger location-specific
focus on the agricultural problems in these areas. The project would estab-
lish in each settlement area an Agricultural Services Center (ASC), which would
serve as the headquarters for adaptive research, extension and training. The
centers would have buildings, equipment and facilities for staff training and
farmer training and a small area of land (5-10 ha) for conducting verification
trials and demonstrations with a small portion devoted to seed propagation and
tree nurseries. The center would be designed as a permanent facility to be
maintained after the settlement phase is completed, at that stage to provide
services both within the settlement areas and to areas outside the immediate
boundaries. The Department of Agriculture (DA) would supply the necessary
technical specialists and field workers, and provide the overall direction and
coordination for agricultural activities.
4.15      For technical advisory services to farmers, the proposed project
would test an approach that has been successfully applied elsewhere in Asia
with Bank support - the so-called training and visits system of extension.
This system involves considerably closer supervision of field agents, who
would work to predetermined daily work schedules with specific farmer groups,
with bi-monthly training sessions conducted by senior technicians at the
service center. The work of field agents would be made more effective by
utilizing selected farmers to assist them in the dissemination of improved



- 13 -
practices. These farmers (farmer counselors) would be given special training
at the ASC, including training in how to impart skills to others. This system
has been successfully introduced in several provinces in the Philippines.
4.16      Initial screening of new crop varieties considered suitable for
the conditions of the settlement areas would be conducted at the ASC farm,
as would the testing of new production technology, particularly those elements
embodying a relatively high risk factor for the farmer. Most adaptive exper-
iments of satisfactory locally screened technology would be carried out on
farmers' fields, under the technical guidance and supervision of agricultural
staff. The system proposed would be similar to that used by the International
Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in their out-reach programs; technical back-up,
funded under the project, would be available from IRRI and from the University
of the Philippines (College of Agriculture). For sugar development in Capiz,
the Philippine Sugar Institute (PHILSUGIN) would provide a sugar technologist
for the settlement. Under a new agreement between DAR, DA, DLGCD and MARA, MARA
would continue to provide services within the framework of the proposed project
in Agusan (para 4.13) (Annex 6).
4.17      Credit and Cooperative Development (US$3.4 million):  Provision of
adequate and timely input supplies involve activities that are both complex
and vital to the full success of the proposed project. Currently, only minimal
amounts of agricultural credit are available in the settlement areas and past
efforts by DAR to supply credit directly have not been effective. Under the
project, credit requirements for seasonal production (seeds, fertilizer, plant
chemicals and labor: U$1.2 million) would be made available, in line with the
projected adoption rates for improved technology (Annex 4). M4edium-term
credit (work animals and implements, threshers, crop driers, marketing facil-
ities and abaca establishment loans: US$1.8 million) would also be included.
The financial returns on these investments, generally above 50%, are satis-
factory (Annex 6, Tables 8 through 11). Credit would be channeled through the
Central Bank (CB) to specified rural banks in the settlement areas on terms
and conditions consistent with those of the Fourth Rural Credit project
(Report No. 1415-PH) (RC IV). 1/ Terms would be those applicable to agrarian
reform beneficiaries under CB regulations, with interest at 1% per month
(seasonal credit), or 12% per annum, plus a 2% service charge. For term
credit, the period of repayment would depend on the cash flow projections of
the investments, and would generally be between three and five years. The
participating rural banks and the investor would each contribute 10% of the
investment cost.
4.18      Prior to the provision of credit under the project, during the first
year (two years in Capiz), a series of steps would be taken to deal with the
deficiencies of existing institutional arrangements in the settlement areas.
1/   The RC IV project could not be used for finance credit for this project
primarily because over 80% of items proposed for this project would be
ineligible under RC IV.



- 14 -
These measures are described in some detail in Annex 6. Briefly summarized,
they involve (i) debt collection and settlement, to be undertaken by DAR staff
in conjunction with DLGCD. Most debts are owed to DAR, in most cases incurred
many years ago. Debts would be either rescheduled, written off or brought to
litigation; (ii) the Central Bank would review the financial status of the two
operating rural banks, in Bukidnon (a new bank, established in 1976) and in
Agusan (a bank established with Philippine Council of Churches support in
1973). In Agusan steps would be taken to reduce the present level of arrears
from 39% to the level of 25% stipulated under CB regulations. A condition of
disbursement of loan proceeds for credit would be that the respective bank
meet the normal CB eligibility criteria; (iii) a new rural bank would be
established to serve the needs of the settlement population in the Capiz set-
tlement (see para 4.19 below). An assurance was obtained that every effort would
be made to make this bank fully operational by June 1979. The CB would
provide for special monitoring of performance of the rural banks, including
access to the services of the Management Advisory Unit and the Technical
Support Unit.
4.19      GOP's Samahang Nayon village cooperative program would be developed
and strengthened under the project to promote rural savings and self-help
efforts in these areas. Under this program, initiated in 1973 and managed by
the DLGCD, considerable progress has already taken place in the Agusan and
Bukidnon settlements, where over 50% of the population are members, with sav-
ings funds of about F250,000. Under the project, registered societies in
good standing would borrow from the rural banks as marketing cooperatives
to acquire necessary facilities, primarily grain threshers and driers. Util-
izing their savings funds, cooperatives would also purchase equity in the
rural banks serving these areas. In Capiz, a new rural bank would be estab-
lished, to be jointly owned by the cooperatives; initial funds would be
provided by cooperative savings together with a loan (Y250,000) from DAR's
Fund for Direct Assistance, repayable over 15 years at 6% interest.
Cooperatives would also be used in support of the agricultural extension
and demonstration program (para 4.16). DLGCD would be responsible for the
cooperative program and DLGCD staff and facilities in the settlements would
be strengthened for this purpose. In respect of the Capiz bank to be
established, DLGCD would provide management assistance over a five-year
period, under a Management Training and Assistance Program established for
such purposes (Annex 6).
4.20      Health, Family Planning and Village Water Supply (US$1.0 million):
The project would extend the ongoing national program of rural health care,
nutrition and family planning of the Department of Health (DH) to the settle-
ment areas, with construction of 15 village health posts and two rural health
units (one is already in operation) plus equipment and staffing for these
facilities, including the rural health center already in operation. Standards
of service would be the same as those being supported under the Bank's
Population project (Loan No. 1035-PH) for rural areas. Family planning is
virtually absent from these areas at present and the medical services provided



- 15 -
by the DAR are ineffective for want of adequate staff, supplies and technical
backup. The approach proposed would facilitate full integration with existing
provincial and national health care levels of service. The proposed component
would also strengthen the malaria eradication control program and support
selective public health measures relating to the control of schistosomiasis
in the Agusan settlement, where these are serious problems (Annex 11).
4.21      Materials would be provided for construction of low cost village
water supplies on a self-help basis (US$0.3 million), utilizing designs
prepared by DAR engineers and under their supervision. It is estimated
that about 50% of the villages in the settlement areas could benefit from
systems of this type. The work involves primarily tapping local streams
upstream of the village, which because of hydrological and topographical
features are relatively free of pollution, and conveying water (under gravity)
through plastic pipe to tanks in or near the village. For villages lacking
such a water source (often the case in the Agusan settlement) alternative
systems need to be considered. Provision is included under the proposed loan
to finance a study by local consultants of the alternatives (Annex 9).
4.22      Management, Staff Facilities and Other Services (US$2.2 million):
Additional offices, equipment, housing and staff would be provided to supervise
implementation of the programs detailed above. Sites for the major facilities
are in the process of being acquired; satisfactory building designs and site
plans have been prepared.
4.23      Land Allocation and Titling:  A special problem to be addressed
early in the life of the project is land allocation and titling in the settle-
ment areas. Despite the considerable period since the inclusion of these
areas in the settlement program, many settlers continue to operate under
usufruct systems, few settlers have received title to land and in most cases
official settlers continue to operate under thle original Certificate of
Allocation, which, with the passage of time, has sometimes changed hands a
number of times or is applicable to a designated farm lot that has de facto
been subdivided (e.g., through accommodation of second or third generation
descendants of the original designated allocatee). Cases of illegal tenancy
arrangements, through which a number of plots are effectively controlled by a
third party, also occur in the Capiz and Bukidnon settlements. The absence of
a land title or equivalent instrument is an impediment to obtaining institu-
tional credit, increases the dependence on local moneylenders, and inhibits
investment in permanent assets. DAR is taking steps to strengthen its
capability at the settlement level to deal with these problems and new pro-
cedures would be instituted to regularize the existing situation and permit
the rapid issuance of land title or an equivalent instrument.  The elements of
an improved approach are summarized in Annex 10 and include (i) revision of
new plot design procedures to reflect potential net income criteria instead of
solely area size criteria; (ii) criteria for the revision of the boundaries of
currently uneconomic plots; (iii) revision of review procedures to allow rapid
issuance of a certificate of title (or other suitable instrument) shortly
after land allocation; (iv) wider discretionary powers to land allocation



- 16 -
officers to effect the foregoing; and (v) the establishment of a local repre-
sentative land committee in each settlement area to work with and assist
officials, and to ensure local views are taken into account. Drafts of
revised procedures were discussed at negotiations and an assurance was
obtained that the new procedures would become operational not later than
December 1977.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCE
Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$32.6 million, of which
11.8 million or 36% is foreign exchange. Local taxes and duties would account
for US$2.6 million equivalent. Foreign consultant services have been costed
at US$65,000 per man-year (including housing allowance or per diem, inter-
national travel and local transportation). Project costs are based on esti-
mates made by the appraisal mission in mid-1976, updated to June 1977.
Physical contingencies of between 15% and 20% have been used. Costs due to
expected price increases over the implementation period would amount to about
19% of total project costs, assuming the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rates
(%)
1977-79   1980-82
Civil Works                                9          8
Equipment and Services                      7.5       7



- 17 -
5.02            Details of project costs are presented in Annex 13 and summarized
below:
Project Cost Summary
Peso Millions                     US$ Millions                 Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign    Total        Local      Foreign    Total         Exchange  Cost
A.  Program Support
Staff Salaries and Allowances                        3.48        -          3.48        0.47         -         0.47          -         2
Technical Services                                   4.42       3.67        8.09        0.59        0.49        1.08         45        4
Staff Training                                       1.45       0.52        1.97        0.19        0.07       0.26          27        1
Other Costs                                          1.20       2.03        3.23        0.16        0.27        0.43         62        2
Sub-Total                                        10 .55       6. 22      16.77        1.41        0.83       2.24
B.  Settlement Infrastructure
Civil Works
- Roads                                            34.65       21.23       55.88        4.62        2.83        7.45         38       31
- Irrigation                                       12.76        7.80       20.56        1.70        1.04        2.74         38       11
- Other Works                                       2.33        1.42        3.75        0.31        0.19       0.50          38        2
Equipment for Force Account                          4.37       8.93       13.30        0.59        1.19        1.78         67        8
Sub-Total                                        54.11      39.38        93.49        7.22        5.25 2    1247
C.  Settlement Services
Forestry
- Buildings and Equipment                           1.28       0.97         2.25        0.17        0.13       0.30          43        1
- Staff Salaries and Allowances                     0.05         -          0.05        0.01         -         0.01          -         -
- Other Operating Costs                             1.98        1.20        3.18        0.26        0.16       0.42          38        2
Agriculture and Cooperative Development
- Buildings and Equipment                            7.02       4.13       11.15        0.94        0.55        1.49         37        6
- Staff Salaries and Allowances                      6.50        -          6.50        0.86         -         0.86          -         4
- Other Costs                                        1.48       0.67        2.15        0.20        0.09       0.29          32        1
Health
- Buildings and Equipment                            1.23       0.67        1.90        0.16        0.09       0.25          35        1
- Staff Salaries and Allowances                      1.31        -          1.31        0.17         -         0.17          -         I
- Other Costs                                       0.70        0.38        1.08        0.10        0.05       0.15          38        1
Administrative, Engineering Support
and Settlement Services
- Buildings and Equipment                            4.95       3.75        8.70        0.66        0.50        1.16         43        5
- Staff Salaries and Allowances                      7.33        -          7.33        0.98          -        0.98          -         4
- Other Costs                                        1.02       1.05        2.07        0.13        0.14       0.27          50        1
Sub-Total                                        34.85       12.82       47.67        4.64        1.71       6.35
D.  Credit Funds
'Term Credit                                         9.22       3.90       13.12        1.23         0.52       1.75         30        7
Seasonal Credit (Revolving Fund)                     4.59       4.58        9.17        0.61        0.61        1.22         50        5
Sub-Total                                        13.81        8.48       22.29        1.84        1.13        2.97
E.  Total Base Costs (June 1977)                       113.32      66.90      180.22       15.11         8.92      24.03                 100
Physical Contingencies                              12.05       6.30       18.35        1.60        0.84        2.44                  10
Price Contingency                                  30.21       15.60       45.81        4.03        2.08        6.11                  26
Total Cost                                       155.58      88.80      244.38       20.74       11.84       32.58                 136



- 18 -
Financing
5.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$15 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs of the project (US$11.8 million), together with 18% of esti-
mated local currency costs (US$3.2 million). For medium- and long-term
credit provided under the project, participating rural banks and sub-borrow-
ers would each finance 10% of investment costs, together amounting to about
US$300,000. The Central Bank would provide the balance for on-lending to
farmers through selected rural banks. GOP would fund other items through
annual budget appropriations. To ensure the continuous and timely flow of
funds, an agreement was obtained that the Government would establish a
special project fund, to be replenished by Government at regular monthly
intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated requirements for the next
two months. Establishment of such a special fund is proposed as a condition
of loan effectiveness.
Budgeting
5.04      All items financed under the project would be subject to annual
budgetary approval within the framework of an Inter-agency Project Coordinat-
ing Committee (IPCC). Proposed project expenditures would be formulated by
line agencies and DAR at settlement level, thereafter reviewed and agreed by
all member agencies of the IPCC and ultimately approved by the Commission of
the Budget as part of the regular annual budget preparation. Funds would
subsequently be allocated to a special project fund administered by the
Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) of the DAR from which agencies would
be reimbursed for their approved expenditures. Expenditures would take place
in conformity with the budgetary provisions and, at settlement level, after
approval by the settlement area managers as appropriate.
Procurement 1/
5.05      Equipment and plant for force account construction, operation and
road maintenance (US$1.8 million) would be bulked into sizeable packages and
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Technical and office equipment
and a small number of vehicles (to a total of US$1.1 million) are of limited
amounts by detailed specification and local procurement procedures, which
include adequate competition and provision for the participation of foreign
firms, are acceptable. Local procurement is also appropriate for off-
the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each because the advantages
of international competitive bidding would be clearly outweighed by the
administrative costs involved. The total cost of such items would not exceed
US$300,000. Material inputs (fertilizer, plant protection chemicals) financed
under seasonal credit (US$1.0 million) would be procured by sub-borrowers from
1/   Figures shown in parentheses are June 1977 base figures.



- 19 -
local dealerships of international manufacturers. Items financed under term
credit (US$1.8 million) including work animals, threshers, driers and chain
saws, would be obtained in the local market, where competition is keen and
repair facilities adequate.
5.06      Civil works (US$12.8 million) required under the project for roads,
irrigation and drainage systems, buildings, forestry and conservation works
would generally be small, of varied design and geographically scattered.
They would not be of sufficient size to attract international bidders and
would therefore be constructed under contract following local competitive
bidding procedures administered by DAR for building, housing and conservation
works, DPH for roads, and by NIA for the larger irrigation and drainage
systems. The competitive bidding procedures of these agencies are considered
acceptable. A limited amount of civil works through force account procedures
in these remote areas would be expected where contractor interest is not
sufficient to secure competitive bids. An assurance was obtained from
GOP that the amount of work done by force account would not exceed 40% of
the total cost of the work, without prior approval by the Bank.
5.07      Contracts for locally available consultants and technical services
(US$600,000) would be awarded after local advertisement in accordance with
standard GOP procedures which are considered satisfactory. Contracts with
foreign firms or individuals (US$380,000) would be awarded in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines on the Uses of Consultants and on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank.
Disbursements
5.08      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100% of the ex-
factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and vehicles, and 65% of the
cost of equipment and vehicles procured locally; 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of consultants and training abroad; 65% of local consultants' costs; 45%
of civil works and other services; and 60% of disbursements made by the
Central Bank for term credit. Details and categories are shown in Annex 14.
5.09      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made against standard Bank
documentation except for expenditures for civil works by force account,
salaries of project personnel and other operating expenses, term credit, and,
irrespective of category, item cost of less than US$3,000. Disbursements for
the specified exceptions would be made against a Statement of Expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but retained by the
Borrower and available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision. These expenditures would be listed by account code and category
on a monthly basis for certification by the Project Manager and the Financial
Controller. It is expected that disbursement would be completed by June 30,
1983, approximately one year after the end of construction. Upon completion
of the project, any undisbursed funds would be cancelled. Annex 14, Tables I
through 3 show the estimated expenditures schedules and Table 4 an estimated
semi-annual disbursement schedule.



- 20 -
Accounts and Audit
5.10      All participating agencies, with the exception of the rural banks
through which project credit is to be provided, are organizations of Govern-
ment and their accounts are audited annually by the Government's Commission
on Audit. Government has agreed that agencies participating in the project
would maintain separate accounts for their portions of the project and that
after audit, the project accounts, together with the auditor's comments, would
be sent to the Bank within four months of the close of each financial year.
The Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Association (DRBSLA) of the
Central Bank (CB) would audit each rural bank participating under the project
once a year and would audit sub-borrower accounts on a random basis.
VI.  ORGA4IZATION AND MANAGEMENT (Annex 15)
General
6.01      The project would focus on creating a replicable pattern of inter-
agency coordination for settlement development and would strengthen DAR's
capability to undertake responsibility for the coordination of activities,
perform specialist functions relating to land allocation and resettlement,
and settlement planning. DAR staff and line bureaus would also be fully
responsible for project execution in respect of those components of the
proposed project to be implemented by DAR. Nevertheless, the proposed
arrangements for management and execution of the project involve substantial
changes from those that now apply. Government recognizes the need for a
substantial reorientation of the program together with changes in DAR's own
organizational structure relating to settlement activities. Further changes
may be required as a result of experience gained under this project, both in
field level implementation and through the series of policy studies to be
undertaken with reference to the future settlement program.
Central Project Management Unit (CPMU)
6.02      It is proposed to establish a Central Project Management Unit
(CPMU) reporting directly to the Secretary of the DAR, incorporating essen-
tial line and staff functions relating to project activities. The structure
of the GIPU is described in Annex 15 and shown in Chart 3. The Project
Manager has already been appointed from the DAR senior staff. He would
supervise the activities of a small staff group, which is now assigned from
the existing staff bureaus at DAR headquarters, with capability to: (i) draw
up detailed programs and budget requests for the three settlement areas and to
maintain financial control of these activities; (ii) liaise with cooperating
agencies, both in respect of field level implementation and in obtaining staff
inputs for policy and technical studies relating to the future land settlement
program; (iii) supervise the accomplishment of feasibility studies and reports
on specific existing and new settlement areas; and (iv) supervise the work of
consultants hired under the project. The project manager would be supported



- 21 -
by an Assistant Secretary of the Department, designated the Operations Coor-
dinator of the project, who would handle any major issues involving interagency
relationships. An assurance was obtained that the Bank would be consulted
should any change in the individual designated as project manager become
necessary.
6.03      The CMPU would be responsible for drawing up the terms of reference
and contractual arrangements for local and international consultants needed
for feasibility studies (para 4.03). An assurance was obtained that arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank to hire and retain such consultants for feas-
ibility studies would be made by May 1978, following a preliminary review of
the existing and new settlements available for accelerated development. For
these studies and for the policy and programming studies for the longer term
(10-year) perspective on land settlement, CPMU would draw on the full re-
sources of the DAR staff Bureaus, including the DAR Planning Secretariat and
the Bureau of Resettlement. Consultancy funds would also be made available to
utilize the services of suitable institutions - e.g., the Development Academy
of the Philippines; policy studies would be carried out in close cooperation
with other agency planning groups (Department of Agriculture, Department of
Natural Resources) and would be coordinated by the National Economic Develop-
ment Authority. The report and recommendations of this group would be
reviewed by an ad hoc sub-committee of the Cabinet Coordination Committee for
Rural Development to consist of the Secretaries of DA, DNR and DAR under the
chairmanship of the Secretary-General of the NEDA.
Organization at Settlement Level
6.04      Project actions in the selected settlements, while specific to the
distinct conditions, land use potential, and activity patterns of each sepa-
rate area, would nonetheless conform to a system or plan directed at dealing
with common problems, utilizing approaches that are replicable or adaptable to
other situations. The concept of a resident settlement team whose basic
function is to accomplish the relatively short-term and transitional goals
associated with a "take off" phase of development has been retained. The
proposed arrangements also take into account the need to establish service
units that can be integrated into the structure of local and national adminis-
trative and technical services at the end of the project period. The length
of the necessary transitional phase varies according to the mix and initial
stage of development in the settlement and its size, but in general the
appropriate horizon under Philippine conditions is between five and ten years;
this phase would be completed with the five years disbursement period of the
project in two of the three settlements selected.
6.05      Area Manager.  The proposed interim organization and heightened
pace of development activity involves a substantial, though temporary, increase
in staff at the settlement level and a substantial increase in responsibilities
relating to the use of the project facilities. Thus, the job requirements for
the Area Manager considerably exceed those of the settlement team leaders who
occupy the corresponding post under present arrangements. The task of coor-
dinating the work of several agency implementing sub-units posted to the



- 22 -
settlements is also a new feature in the proposed plan. It has therefore been
agreed that the three area managers would be recruited as contract staff for
the duration of the project, being in all cases well-qualified Filipino
nationals. Selection of suitable persons for these important posts has been
completed and their appointment is proposed as a condition of loan effectiveness.
6.06      The Area Manager would coordinate the work of a number of units
which in functional terms cover infrastructure development, land and water,
agriculture, credit, settlement services (including land allocation) and
in some cases special units such as those for forestry and abaca develop-
ment. Details are shown in Annex 15 and Chart 4. These units would in most
cases be staffed and managed as line agency teams, with technical supervision
and back-up from the parent agency. The Area Manager would coordinate the
activities of these agency units and would monitor their performance; he would
also direct the work of administrative and accounting services relating the
program as a whole as well as DAR staff units assigned to the settlements.
Project Committees
6.07      At national level, an Inter-agency Project Coordinating Committee
(IPCC) would be established, under the chairmanship of an Assistant Secretary
of the DAR. This committee would be composed of senior staff from the agen-
cies involved in the project, normally a departmental director or his equiva-
lent. Some 11 agencies would thus be represented. 1/ The committee would
deal with (i) annual work plans for implementation and budgetary allocations,
(ii) inter-agency responsibilities for project preparation and programming of
the forward settlement program and (iii) resolution of inter-agency conflicts
or disputes. Secretariat for the committee would be provided by the CPMU.
The Operations Coordinator would report to the Secretary of DAR and to the
Cabinet Coordinating Committee for Rural Development. The latter committee
would resolve outstanding inter-agency issues that could not be resolved at
the IPCC.
6.08      At the regional level, the Area Manager would be assisted by an
Advisory Committee under the chairmanship for the Provincial Governor, to
consist of the Regional Directors of line agencies with staff units posted
to the settlements, together with the NEDA Regional Director. The prime
objective of this committee would be to ensure continuing mutual understand-
ing among senior regional officers of progress under the project, and to
provide any necessary coordination for other non-project related development
programs ongoing in the region.
6.09      Agreements have been drawn up between DAR and participating agencies
covering the responsibilities of each agency under the proposed project. A
Presidential Letter of Instruction spelling out the responsibilities of the
1/  Consisting of DAR, DA, DH, DLGCD, DNR, DPH, the NIA, the NGA and NEDA
in addition to the Central Bank (Rural Banking Branch) and the Budget
Commission.



- 23 -
Government agencies implementing the project and establishing an Interagency
Project Coordinating Committee (IPCC) has been finalized; its signature is
proposed as a condition of loan effectiveness.
Reports and Annual Work Plans
6.10      The CPMU, in conjunction with line agencies represented on the
IPCC would draw up annual budgets and work plans, in accordance with estab-
lished GOP procedures. An assurance was obtained that these plans would be
available for review by Bank staff prior to being finalized. Participating
agencies, through the Area Managers, would render monthly progress and financial
reports to the CPI4U. CPMU would prepare quarterly and annual progress and
financial reports under a format acceptable to the Bank, with copies to the
Bank within 45 and 90 days respectively.
Implementation
6.11      A schedule of early events is included as Annex 19.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM INCOMES
Introduction
7.01      Differences in agro-ecological conditions in the three settlements
under the proposed project are reflected in their production patterns.
Broad features that the settlements have in common are: (i) high annual
rainfall, more or less evenly distributed throughout the year; (ii) uniform
temperatures which are rarely limiting to plant growth; (iii) a mix of upland
and lowland terrain of moderate agronomic potential; (iv) generally acid
soils of heavy texture and low fertility which are often badly eroded in the
upland terrain; (v) many smallholdings which are farmed at, or a little above,
subsistence level because of the lack of services and physical infrastructure,
and hence opportunities for commercial farming. In the lowlands, rice is
the most important crop. In the uplands, corn and upland rice are grown, the
latter mostly for subsistence. The main cash crops are abaca in Agusan, corn
in Bukidnon and sugar cane in Capiz.
Farm and Crop Development (Annexes 3 and 4)
7.02      A number of project activities would assist smallholders to raise
productivity and farm income. Technical packages for crop development are,
however, based mainly on results of research and trials conducted elsewhere
than in settlement areas, and are primarily oriented towards relatively
advanced commercial farmers. This has been taken into account in projecting
development following their more intensive application in the settlement
areas. Yield expectations and response rates have been estimated at levels
below what could be expected were a more situation-specific technology
available. The adaptive research work and extensive local trials to be



- 24 -
carried out and supported by the project are expected to have an extremely
high pay-off considering the very limited efforts focused in this direction
in the past. However, the projections do not incorporate benefits of new
research findings, which at this stage are necessarily hypothetical.
7.03      The yield improvements estimated to result from project actions
are shown below. "Unimproved" yields approximate those currently realized
in the settlement areas; these are generally below Philippine averages,
reflecting in part the moderate potentials of the areas, but also other
adverse factors: (i) use of unimproved (traditional) seeds and planting
materials, and incorrect application of improved technology (e.g., use of
degenerate hybrid corn seed) reflecting inadequate technical services for
agriculture; (ii) absence or low levels of use of fertilizer and plant
protection chemicals - stemming in part from the lack of an effective credit
program and weak incentive under prevailing market conditions (roads); poor
post-harvest technology (threshers, driers, storage) coupled with adverse
conditions (year-round rains and difficulty in evacuating crops); and other
factors - e.g., extensive rat damage and a need for heavy weeding in the
upland- terrain. Project actions designed to deal with these problems are
discussed in-Chapter IV.
Projected Yield Improvements:  Tons/Ha
Unimproved            Improved        Full Package      Ave-
Tons/Ha    Area %    Ton/Ha  Area %   Tons/Ha  Area Z   rage 
Rice (unmilled)
- Lowland Irrigated      1.8        10       3.0      30        3.5       60       3.2
- Lowland Rainfed        1.5        20       2.5      30       3.0        50       2.6
- Upland                 0.8        40       1.3      40       1.8        20       1.4
Corn                      0.8        40       1.7      45       2.0        15       1.4
Sugar Cane               32          20      50        30      65          50       51
Abaca (fiber)             0.5       10         1.5     40        2.0       50        1.6
/a   At full development, generally 10-12 years after projection inception,
15 years in the case of abaca..
7.04      A full discussion of yields and anticipated farmer response is
provided in Annex 3 of the report. At full development, projected yields,



- 25 -
including yields based on the "full package" technology 1/, would be well
within the range obtained by better farmers in the Philippines - with the
partial exception of upland rice, for which the full package treatment would
involve use of improved varieties that have only recently been developed.
Substantial areas under upland rice and corn are expected to remain at unim-
proved levels of productivity, which areas are judged incapable of benefiting
.from known on-farm technology (though some small benefit should result from
improved market conditions and post-harvest technology). In general, the
element of uncertainty in the projections relates less to technical considera-
ions than to the judgments about farmer response implicit in the calculations
of percentage area subject to improvements (particularly difficult to estimate
for upland rice and corn). For abaca and to some extent sugar cane, progress
would be most heavily influenced by marketing factors (for both of these
crops, yields substantially exceeding those projected are readily obtained in
well organized commercial establishments). Marketing of sugar and abaca is
discussed in paras 7.08-7.09 below.
Production
7.05      Incremental production resulting from the project is estimated
as follows:
Year 5     Year 10      Year 15
-    --  '000 tons ----------
Rice (unmilled)                         17            36         37
Corn (shelled)                          13            26         26
Sugar Cane                              78           146        147
Abaca (fiber)                            0.7          3.2         4.4
As well as increased yields, the production projections also reflect some
changes in cropping pattern and an expanded area of production in the case
of certain crops. In summary these are anticipated to be: (i) an addi-
tional 5,000 ha of land under irrigated rice; (ii) an expansion of 3,000 ha
in sugar cultivation in Capiz, facilitated by a network of new penetration
tracks to be constructed under the project; (iii) an expansion in abaca plant-
ing of 2,500 ha in Agusan into new areas; and (iv) an expansion in cropped
area under corn in Bukidnon, associated with a reduction in fallow related
to increased use of inputs. A small expansion (650 ha) in area planted to
robusta coffee would also be supported in Bukidnon. The area planted to
upland and rainfed lowland rice would decrease by 3,000 ha. Excluding
the undeveloped Agusan settlement, the increase of production over the
1/   The difference between "improved" and "full package" technology re-
flects primarily in the case of the latter a higher level of material
inputs on the part of better farmers on the better land: all farmer
adopters should benefit in some degree from use of improved inputs,
market access and post harvest technology.



- 26 -
development period would be at an average annual rate of between 8% and 11%
a year with reference to current levels.
7.06      Forestry development for local fuelwood and building purposes
would be undertaken on 5,000 ha, using block development techniques in
Capiz and Bukidnon and selected improvement of existing second growth in
Agusan. From year 7 onwards, approximately 55,000 m of household wood
would be available annually to consumers in Bukidnon and Capiz, at prices
below those now pr vailing and with full cost recovery. In Agusan, an annual
supply of 10,000 m could be harvested almost immediately after project
start-up. Proper management would ensure the sustained production of local
requirements of wood for fuel, building and other household purposes.
Marketing and Prices (Annex 8)
7.07      At projected prices, available technologies offer considerable
incentive to adopting farmers, with net return per ha ranging from roughly
110% to 200% above current returns for major crops (after charging in-
creased labor input as a production cost). For rice and corn, marketing
arrangements are influenced by the Government through support prices to
farmer-growers and price ceilings for consumers. The National Grains
Authority (NGA), using its own and rented facilities (warehousing and trans-
port) intervenes to maintain appropriate prices and handles imports of grains.
Its intervention in the settlements, however, has been quite limited and grain
prices to farmers into these areas have tended to be well below support
levels. Under the project, a combination of actions would be taken to improve
the marketing situation (improved roads, cooperative development and post-
harvest facilities); NGA would be a party to the inter-agency agreement for
the project thereby committing itself to maintaining an effective presence in
the areas. Projected farmgate prices are well within economically justified
levels; incremental grain production would serve to reduce grain imports, in
line with Government's self-sufficiency objectives.
7.08      For sugar production, GOP also operates a national pricing and
marketing policy that in the past has provided a substantial subsidy for
domestic users and consumers (domestic use accounts for about one-third of
total production). Market prospects, however, depend primarily on the
world market situation and international contracts negotiated by the Govern-
ment with importers. The appraisal is based on Bank commodity forecasts,
which project a considerable improvement in prices over the development
period of the project, relative to the current depressed state of the market.
Price projections also allow for the continuation of a subsidy for domestic
users. In the local area, one of three sugar mills accessible to the settle-
ment - the mill through which most settlement production is now processed - is
doubling its milling capacity. It is also anticipated that the comparative
advantage of the area for sugar production would be raised on completion (by
1980) of major and minor road upgrading under the Bank's Third Highway Project
(Loan No. 1353-PH). Incremental sugar production from the project would
constitute a very small fraction of projected Philippine supply.



- 27 -
7.09     Abaca production in the Agusan settlement is also primarily geared
towards export markets, mainly Japanese and US markets involving a variety
of end uses, including the traditional cordage manufacture and for use as
mix fiber in the production of high quality paper. Export prices have shown
considerable fluctuations, with the very high levels of 1974 followed by
a steep decline and some recent recovery. Appraisal price projections assume
a continuation of recent low prices, with, however, some improvement in
benefit to growers through the formation of a marketing cooperative and
actions to improve fiber quality. A rapidly growing domestic market for abaca
is based primarily on handicraft manufacture; with the proposed expansion
under the project, and better access to the major centers (main highway
upgrading has been recently completed), it maybe possible through project
implementation to develop marketing contracts at considerably more advantageous
prices. To reduce the exposure to market risks, the production scheme proposed
for this component is geared to a mixed farming system under which growers
would be encouraged to develop not more than 2 ha of a 5 ha lot under abaca,
with the balance devoted primarily to food crops. The DA would extend its
specialized program for this crop to the area, including an abaca specialist.
MARA has pioneered the introduction of other crops possibly suitable for the
upland terrain - notably coffee and rubber - and progress with these efforts
would be monitored for possible wider application in the interests of further
diversification.
Farmer Benefits
7.10      Under present circumstances farm incomes are extremely low in
all three settlements but particularly so in Agusan, the newest and least
developed of the three.  Current income status of farm households, as re-
ported in the sample survey undertaken as part of project preparation, is
shown below.
Agusan     Bukidnon      Capiz
#2,000 and below (%)             76           38          55
g2,001-4,999      (%)            18           40          36
t5,000 and above (%)              6           22           9
Average Income (P)              1,600        2,800       2,700
No. Farm Families               1,550        6,700       3,850
% of all Families                  91           90          82
7.11      The share of off-farm income and income generated by crops other
than those to be developed under the project accounts for 20%-40% of the
the amounts shown above. A very considerable range in cropping patterns is
typical of the mixed upland/lowland terrain and variation in soil types
found in each settlement area. Farm budgets are therefore only broadly
indicative of projected developmental impact of actions supported under
the project (Annex 4). The seven farm budgets constructed relate to
lowland, intermediate and upland conditions and take into account dif-
ferences between the three areas. Allowing for off-farm income, they show
net income increases ranging from 100% to almost 400% at full development.



- 28 -
Among farmers whose holdings are marginal and who could not therefore be
expected to obtain major direct benefit within the limits of known technology,
some benefit will result through opportunities for hired labor, though these
will be diminished by the likely impact of further population growth, current-
ly estimated at about 3% per annum.
Environmental Impact
7.12      Improved approaches to land management in upland terrain typical
of settlement areas is a prime concern of the project. The problems of soil
erosion and depletion would be addressed by a combination of actions includ-
ing improved farm husbandry, a pilot project involving mechanical methods
for the construction of large transverse bunds and forestry development on
the steeper slopes. Programs are included that address the problem of malaria
control and schistosomiasis in the Agusan settlement area. Improved village
water supply systems would also be provided under self-help arrangements.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND COSTS (Annex 18)
Project Objectives
8.01      The primary objective of the proposed project is to develop and
test methods for the better exploitation of the remaining public lands in
the Philippines suitable for development as settlement schemes for small
farmers. Towards this objective, the project would support and help develop
improved management systems for GOP's settlement program, strengthen and
extend the capability to undertake appropriate feasibility studies for exist-
ing and new settlement areas, and support a better overall focus on the
problem by provision for a greater degree of inter-agency coordination,
so bringing to bear the varied and considerable expertise available under
ongoing sectoral programs at the national level. The project would also
support the development of three existing settlements and carry them forward
to the stage of full integration with the rural community at large.
8.02      Primary emphasis would be given to the establishment of a viable
farming system in these agronomically backward and difficult areas. The
anticipated increases in farm incomes, as described in the preceding section,
would raise average incomes (after allowing for non-farm income) to an equiva-
lent per capita of between US$120 and US$160 in the three settlements. While
considerable variation in this average can be anticipated, depending in part
on the vigor and enterprise of the participant farmers and the variation in
agronomic potential of the landholding, very few farmers in these areas now
enjoy incomes above the national poverty threshold estimated at US$140 per
capita. Indeed, on the basis of known technology and the projections made in
this report based on its application, not more than 60% would achieve incomes
above this level at full development. On the other hand, without the project
the situation would be likely either to remain about the same as currently
exists and for some farmers, would worsen due to continuing soil depletion and
erosion.



- 29 -
8.03      While the Philippines has a number of innovative and well directed
programs at a sectoral level aimed at dealing with the problems of rural
poverty, it is fair comment that these tend to be rather poorly coordinated
one with another. In a wider sense than encompassed by settlement develop-
ment, the joint application of these various programs in a well organized
and structured setting, as is envisaged under this project for the three
areas, offers an opportunity to observe their potential for a collective
impact that exceeds the sum of the constituent parts. If successful, the
application of a similar structured approach to very much larger areas could
be a result of major importance, applicable both within and outside settlement
areas as such.
Replicability and Cost Recovery
8.04      Incremental capital outlays on infrastructure to be disbursed over
the five-year period of the project are equivalent to US$2,200 per family in
Agusan (the least developed of the three settlements), US$1,200 per family in
Bukidnon and US$800 per family in Capiz, all measured in economic prices and
including physical contingencies. Recurrent costs at full development (pri-
marily for roads upkeep and agricultural services) would range between about
US$140 in Agusan and US$30 in Capiz per family, or US$750,000 in total. Full
cost recovery would apply to all credit outlays and forestry development, and
partial recovery of irrigation development costs (para 4.10). Taking into
account the substantial element of road building included in the project
(including outlays on national and provincial roads with benefits to farmers
outside the settlements as well as to settler farmers), these costs appear
reasonable. Through project implementation and as a result of the new feasi-
bility studies to be undertaken, some reduction in the costs of developing
new areas may be possible.
Economic Rate of Return and Project Risks
8.05      On the basis of the agreed investment program and the estimated
phasing of project benefits, the economic rate of return to the project,
would be 28% overall, and 17% in Agusan, 31% in Bukidnon and 41% in Capiz.
The calculation excludes social service costs and benefits - mainly health
infrastructure and family planning, and certain other minor items for which
adequate indicators of project benefit were not available. Project benefits
are prudently phased and are based on reasonable yield improvements. The
relatively high rate of return reflects in part considerable sunk costs in
on-farm development and physical infrastructure, particularly in Capiz and
Bukidnon. The principal risk is the uncertainty of response on the part of
the low income farmers to the improved environment for development, a response
conditioned by domestic and international market factors and by the rainfed
conditions under which most of them would continue to farm. The integrated
and coordinated response called for on the part of the many agencies
involved with implementation will also test GOP capabilities in implementing
the project to schedule. However, Government is fully committed to the



- 30 -
project and has demonstrated an impressive capability in its handling of
ongoing bank supported projects aimed at the rural sector. The farm develop-
ment risk is reasonably spread between four different principal crops - two
for domestic use and two primarily geared towards export markets. Finally,
the economic rate of return would still be 15% with realized benefits only
half those projected.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached
on the following principal points:
(a) feasibility studies would be completed by December 1979
and policy studies by December 1980 (para 4.03);
(b) DAR would employ suitable local consultants to produce
a final design for monitoring and evaluation of the
project in consultation with the Bank by November 1977
(para 4.04);
(c) technical specification and detailed design of soil
conservation measures for the Bukidnon settlement would
be discussed with the Bank by DAR prior to procurement
of equipment (para 4.08);
(d) for road construction and upgrading and irrigation works,
final engineering designs of such works and arrangements
for their implementation, together with arrangements for
their operation and maintenance, and, where appropriate,
cost recovery, would be agreed by the Bank prior to the
initiation of construction (paras 4.08, 4.09 and 4.10);
(e) the Central Bank would make every effort to make the new
rural bank in the Capiz settlement operational by December
1978 and in any event not later than June 1979 (para 4.18);
(f) new procedures and guidelines in respect of land allocation
would be introduced by December 1977 (para 4.24);
(g) the special project fund would be replenished at monthly
intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated require-
ment for the next two calendar months (para 5.03);
(h) civil works under force account procedures would not
exceed 40% of the estimated total for civil works
without prior consultation with the Bank (para 5.06);



- 31 -
(i) contracts with foreign firms or individuals would be
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms
and conditions approved by the Bank (para 5.07);
(j) agencies participating in the project would maintain
separate accounts in respect of project outlays
(para 5.10);
(k) after audit, the project accounts, together with the
auditor's comments, would be sent to the Bank within
four months of the close of each financial year (para 5.10);
(1) the accounts of each rural bank participating under the
project would be audited once a year by the Central Bank
and sub-borrower accounts would be audited on a random
basis (para 5.10);
(m)  the Bank would be consulted before any new appointments to the
posts of Project Manager, Area Manager(s), and Expatriate
Advisor, should changes be necessary through the life of
the project (para 6.02);
(n) DAR would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to
hire and retain consultants for feasibility studies by
May 1978 (para 6.03);
(o) the annual work program and budget drawn up by the
IPCC/DAR would be made available for review by the
Bank prior to final approval (para 6.10); and
(p) quarterly and annual progress reports and financial
reports under a format acceptable to the Bank would
be forwarded by CPMU within 45 and 90 days respectively
(para 6.10);
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be (a) appointment of the inter-
nationally recruited advisor (para 4.05) and the three area managers (para 6.05);
(b) the establishment of a special fund for the project by the Government
(para 5.03); and (c) signature of a Presidential Letter of Instruction (LOI)
setting out the arrangements for inter-agency coordination including the
establishment of the IPCC, and agency commitments for project implementation
(para 6.09).
9.03      Condition of disbursement of the loan proceeds for credit would be
(a) that a subsidiary loan agreement has been duly executed on behalf of Govern-
ment and the Central Bank of the Philippines (para 4.17); and (b) that the
respective rural banks meet normal CB eligibility criteria (para 4.18).
9.04      A loan of US$15 million is proposed with a 20-year term and 4-1/2
year grace period, and with interest at the standard Bank rate. The borrower
would be the Republic of the Philippines.






ANNEX I
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
SUPPORT FOR THE FORWARD SETTLEMENT PROGRAM
A. The Ongoing Program of Settlement
Historical Background
1.        Organized settlement and development of public lands has been a
program of the Philippine Government since before the Second World War. The
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) which currently administers the program,
is the successor to the Land Authority (1963-1971) and the National Resettle-
ment and Rehabilitation Administration (NARRA), which carried out development
work in the most active phase of the program, during the mid-1950s. Under
the NARRA, some 30,000 families were accommodated in 30 settlement projects,
which is about 70% of the accomplishment of the program over the entire
post-war period. Under the Land Authority, 4 more areas were proclaimed
for settlement, but very little development took place. The Department of
Agrarian Reform, created in September 1971, took over the settlement program,
then comprising some 27 settlement areas, as part of its broader mandate to
implement land reform programs. With additional areas proclaimed since 1971
(including 5 in September 1975) the DAR is now (1976) responsible for 34
settlements, with active programs and field staff posted in 25 of them. The
present program, covering some 700,000 ha shows settlements at all stages of
development, with a substantial number of old settlements established well
back in the 1950s and early 1960s at a time when population pressure was
lower than now. Some 70% of the program area is located in Mindanao, though
there is a broad scatter of organized settlement throughout the Philippines.
Settlements vary in extent from 100,000 ha down to areas as small as 1,000 ha,
with about 75% of the total land in settlements of 25,000 ha or more. The
total population, consisting in great part of low income farmers, is probably
about 400,000. About two-thirds of this total are registered settler families
or family members, the remainder being either descendants of original settlers
or occupants of public land in areas not yet surveyed and classified.
Program Execution
2.        Settlement areas are established by presidential proclamation
from lands of the public domain which have been classified as "alienable and
disposable", i.e. suitable for agricultural usage. Substantial legislative
and executive authority exists for the Department to undertake directly or
through contract all major activities relating to settlement development.
Within such designated areas, the DAR through a settlement field team backed
by services from higher level units, undertake the following activities:



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(a) Planning and layout of farm lots and townsites.
(b) Cadastral survey of farm and town lots and allocation of
use rights.
(c) Layout and construction of roads.
(d) Construction of community multipurpose buildings which are
used as schools, medical clinics, and market facilities.
(e) Construction of housing for settlers in the form of both
temporary bunkhouses (later used as schools, etc. or torn
down) and individual homes for families.
(f) Provision of direct assistance in the form of interest
free loans in kind for food, tools, work animals.
(g) Provision of basic medical services to settlers.
(h) Construction of irrigation facilities, frequently on a
joint basis with settlers providing much of the labor.
(i) Organization of agricultural cooperatives for purchase
of farm supplies and marketing of products.
(j) Organization of various forms of cooperative farming
ventures.
(k) Farm management extension services and provision of seeds
and planting materials.
3.        Acquisition of public lands for settlement purposes is initiated by
petition to DAR from landless farmers requesting that action be taken in
respect of a certain area in the public domain. Following receipt of such a
petition, the DAR may organize a reconnaissance team to the area to collect
agronomic and physical data, socio-economic status (existing settlement),
access to communication networks, and to verify the status of the area by
enquiry at the Bureau of Lands and Bureau of Forestry Development (i.e.
classification as alienable and disposable hence suitable for agricultural
purposes). On the basis of the report and recommendation of the team, and
after HQ review, the Secretary DAR may forward a draft Presidential Decree
(proclamation) through the Secretary, Department of National Resources, for
decision at presidential level. The proclamation specifies (a) the site and
boundaries and (b) cooperating agencies to carry out developmental works and
organize resettlement, and constitutes the legal authority for DAR to initiate
action programs.
4.        Settlement and resettlement is undertaken with the eventual ob-
jective of providing land title in farm and house lots for the landless and



ANNEX 1
Page 3
near landless. Subject to general qualifications (all applicants must be
heads of families, landless, capable of tilling the land personally with
the aid of the immediate family and of good character) a priority list
is established with the following categories:
(a) "Pioneers" who have stayed in the settlement area for
not less than one year and have introduced improvements
thereon;
(b) Displaced farmers who, by virtue of government action or
court order, are deprived of the farms they are tilling;
(c) Applicants residing in the province where the settlement
project is located;
(d) Surrendered dissidents who take an oath of loyalty and
show sincere desire to support the Constitution of the
Philippines;
(e) Applicants who have work animals, farm implements and
other facilities; and
(f) Other applicants.
5.        In practice, the great majority of settlers of the past 20 years
have been locally approved or "pioneer" settlers some of whom are already
cultivating at the time of proclamation. For a selection of settlements
where adequate data were available some 30% were moved in, 20% locally
approved (i.e. already resident at time of declaration) and 50% "pioneers"
who do not receive direct assistance in moving to the settlement and estab-
lishing themselves there. 1/ For "moved in" settlement, the BURE takes
responsibility for initial selection, transport to site and initial estab-
lishment loans to settler families, covering subsistence, medical facilities
and agricultural supplies, against accounts established in the name of each
such settler. Other loans have also been available in varying amounts and
for various purposes including housing, work animals and agricultural imple-
ments, irrigation pumps and, in a few cases, tractors. 2/
6.        Allocation of farm and home lots to settlers is theoretically based
on a lottery procedure, though in fact many locally approved applicants es-
tablish prior claims by right of occupancy and prior cultivation. Allocated
1/   Inter-agency Resettlement Study team report, April 1974.
2/t See Credit Annex for detail on settler indebtedness. The most recent
tractor line of credit is available to all beneficiaries of land reform
(including settlers) for hand tractors and accessories and is channeled
through class A Samahang Nayon cooperative groups at interest of 12%
over six years with 20% down payment.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
farm lots are of variable size, reflecting prior occupancy of the better land
(with small allotments), to lots of 8-10 ha in marginal upland areas. The
average on existing settlements ranges from 3.1 ha to 10.2 ha. There is no
well-defined procedure for relating design and allocation of farm lots to
land capability and physical planning considerations, though there is both
capability and executive authority for cadastral and aerial survey, prepara-
tion of base maps and assessment of land use capability for settlement area
development (all of which can be undertaken by contract).
7.        Registered settlers acquire Certificates of Allocation as the first
step in the process leading to titling of land. In theory, after prequalifi-
cation as a cultivator for five years and with 60% of the land cleared, the
settler becomes eligible to apply for a land patent through the DAR, which
after approval is registered as title to the land. There are other procedures
covering transfer of certifications of allocation (involving valuation and
sale of improvements and rights to eligible purchasers) and mortgaging the
land; subsequent sale of the land patent is also subject to DAR approval, as
issuing authority, for a 10-year period.
8.        Infrastructure development is undertaken by a mix of force account
and contract under supervision from DAR HQ engineers, who also draw up designs
and schedules. In practice, without a well-articulated plan of development,
the allocation of equipment and operating expense is somewhat haphazard and
in the older settlements, resource limitations confine the program largely to
maintenance of existing facilities. In newly settled areas, initial actions
may include provision of bunkhouses for staff and settlers, and later, con-
struction of settler houses, roads and irrigation facilities.
Problems and Progress in Land Settlement: A Critique
9.        Land settlement in Philippine conditions poses a variety of prob-
lems - economic, technical, social and managerial. In general, while some
significant progress has been achieved in a number of the older settlements,
it is also recognized that the DAR and its antecedent agencies have not
achieved the level of performance needed to cope successfully with these
problems. In particular, despite considerable outlay and continuous presence
of field personnel, it has not proved possible to develop more than a small
number of settlements to the stage where these areas and their resident pop-
ulations can be fully integrated with the local communities. In consequence,
available resources are spread ever more thinly over an increasing area and
number of settlements (as new settlements are added to the program and old
settlements are not phased out) while the failure to achieve an adequate level
of performance has weakened the case of the agency to obtain the necessary
resources vis-a-vis other claims on the budget and competing priorities, thus
accentuating the problems. In general only limited development work is
presently ongoing in the older settlement areas and in most the bulk of the
activity of the field team is taken up with ongoing administrative routine -
minor repair to existing roads, bridge breakdown, etc., adjudication of land
disputes, provision of some medical and community services.



ANNEX I
Page 5
10.       Many problems stem from the lack of a planning framework both for
the settlement program as a whole and for each individual settlement. There
is not now, nor has there been, a comprehensive framework or strategy to
address such critical questions as: the scope of the program of settlement
in relation to competing uses for public land; criteria for selection of
areas in the public domain for settlement development; and appropriate time
sequencing of activities in areas selected. One consequence is that the
present program - extending over some 700,000 ha and involving a resident
population of perhaps 400,000 people, consists of areas, both large and
small, scattered widely throughout the Philippines. Many existing settle-
ments are too small to justify either the detailed planning and technical
feasibility work needed for their long-term development or the presence of
a field team staffed by qualified personnel with the caliber of leadership
and management that is required. On the other hand, there are areas in the
public domain, extending over several hundred thousand hectares, being logged
or recently logged over, which should be surveyed for agronomic potential,
as a preliminary to consideration for settlement development. For the higher
potential areas, outline physical planning should be undertaken to provide
approximate developmental cost-benefit data thus facilitating a planning
decision on future land use. There is little evidence that criteria and
studies of this kind have ever been much used in the settlement program,
initial surveys carried out by local DAR teams as described in the preceding
section notwithstanding. A further point is that the settlement program has
perhaps never given due weight to the long-term agricultural development of
the settlement areas, as distinct from the legal and administrative services
relating to provision of land for settlers. Given the modest agronomic
potential of almost all the areas involved, which consist generally of a mixed
upland/lowland terrain, there is a special need for land capability assessment
and land management services, relating both to plot allocation and advisory
services to farmers. The importance of these tasks in enhanced by the scarcity
of land and the plentitude of settlers or potential settlers. Under present
circumstances, almost any opportunity to establish farms, whether following
the initial opening up of an area following logging and construction of
forestry roads or otherwise, is quickly seized upon. In these conditions,
the problem is not to provide settlers with adequate incentive and motivation
to develop the land but to manage and direct the spontaneous flow in ways that
(a) provide reasonable opportunities to develop a sound sustainable farming
system with reasonable income and (b) that preserve the mutual rights and
opportunities to so develop by appropriate land use regulation in accordance
with land capability.
11.       With some 25 settlement teams in the country (and more planned to
start up in newly proclaimed settlement areas), the operating expense of the
program accounts for about ?7 million per annum. Capital outlay has averaged
some 1IOO million per annum for the past three years for the department as a
whole, with roughly 60% for surveys, land acquisition and construction works
and the balance for direct loan assistance. The great bulk of this outlay is
destined for settlement development. Planning within DAR is undertaken on
the basis of a five-year horizon, with annual statements of accomplishment



ANNEX 1
Page 6
and forward requests in the context of the annual budget cycle. The latest
available comprehensive statement, dated August 1975, presents a program
covering the period FY1975/76-1979/80, for 29 settlements. The Plan is
largely a catalogue of projected expenditures against physical targets in
each settlement, plus estimates of new settlers to be accommodated and
assisted. In total some 16,000 families are programmed for resettlement and
with loan assistance at roughly US$3,700 per family, the total project cost
is US$59 million. Infrastructure development is costed at US$30 million.
B. Project Actions to Support the Program
Policy and Agency Planning
12.       The project would support a policy and organization review and
the establishment of a capability to undertake feasibility studies of
possible new and additional existing settlement areas. The policy review
would address the problems identified above and, in particular, would pro-
vide specific recommendations relating to:
(a) The overall scope of land settlement programs over a
10-year period, including approximate size of area to be
included, criteria for their selection, and investment
programming needed to bring them to a stage at which
continuing development is assured by self-reliance and
access to ongoing national programs.
(b) Resolution of possible policy and programming conflicts
between alternative uses of available public lands,
including usage for large-scale enterprise farming vs
small farmer settlement.
(c) Appropriate agency responsibilities under such a program,
for initial survey and pre-engineering design, selection
of settler farmers, delineation and allocation of farm
lots; loan and other credit assistance to be made avail-
able to farmer beneficiaries and arrangement for cost
recovery; implementation procedures including the staffing
of settlement teams, agency responsibilities for sectoral
components; and finally arrangements for performance
audit, including evaluation of settlement impact.
13.       Except to a minor extent in Agusan, proposed actions in the three
settlements selected for more intensive development do not involve questions
of settlement per se nor extensive technical studies of land potential for
such settlement. The proposals do nevertheless embody considerable modifica-
tions from ongoing procedures in settlement development with the inclusion
(a) of cost/benefit justification of proposed actions and defined termina-
tion dates for settlement activity, (b) an emphasis on line agencies charged



ANNEX 1
Page 7
with implementing national programs for implementation, rather than - as at
present - virtually all responsibility and activity resting with the DAR and
(c) improved budgetary and reporting procedures and management structures.
Experience under the project in these three areas will provide extensive
feedback for the policy studies.
14.       Primary responsibility for these studies would be assigned to a
project unit in DAR HQ. Details of staffing, consultant services, organiza-
tion and costs are provided in Annex 15.
Preparation of Feasibility Studies
15.       Support would be provided to undertake feasibility studies for
settlement development in respect of existing settlement areas or new areas,
including the five areas recently proclaimed. There are some 450,000 ha in
existing larger settlements some of which have been newly opened up; many of
these would be suitable for inclusion in the program. Initial preparation
would include:
(a) the compilation of maps showing land capability and
existing land use population distribution and infra-
structure;
(b) the definition of appropriate technical packages for
increasing agricultural production;
(c) the execution of socio-economic surveys and studies to
relate agricultural technology, land capability and target
incomes to provide the basis for decisions regarding sizes
of land parcels to be allocated in each settlement, and
preliminary physical planning for future land use;
(d) articulation of arrangements for organization and manage-
ment during the development period, including explicit
provision for phasing out DAR at the end of the period;
(e) identification and costing of needed additions to infra-
structure; and
(f) analysis of the projected economic, financial and social
impact of each project.
16.       Implementation would be undertaken under supervision of the CPMU
(see Annex 15), using inter-agency teams, together with local and interna-
tional consultants. An important objective to be accomplished through this
approach is upgrading GOP's capabilities to prepare feasibility studies on
integrated rural settlements for national and international financing. While
there exists a fairly good capability to prepare economic and financial as-
pects, the engineering and agro-institutional aspects are very much wanting



ANNEX 1
Page 8
in terms of trained technical personnel. The primary emphasis in the use of
expatriate consultants is thus the improvement, through on-the-job training,
of the capabilities of selected technicians from allied agencies. The end
product of the scheme would be a series of project proposals ready for donor
appraisal.
Costs
17.       For technical studies, involving aerial photography production of
maps, physical survey, etc., quotations were obtained from local consulting
firms and used as the basis for preparation of cost estimates. These esti-
mates, together with costing for expatriate services and agency personnel
are included under Annex 15, Tables 1-4.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
A PROFILE OF THE PROJECT SETTLEMENTS
Introduction
1.        As part of a program for supporting and strengthening the settlement
program, three of the existing settlements would be provided with resources
for accelerated development so that the practical experience in operating
a new approach to settlement development would be acquired, feeding back to
the design and set of operating procedures for use in the broader program.
This annex describes the current status of the selected settlements in terms
of general development, socio-economic characteristics, activities of develop-
ment agencies (principally the DAR) and any special features other than those
covered in the technical annexes.
2.        In selecting these settlements, an attempt was made to include a
set with problems representative of those found in a wider range of areas but
at the same time which have reasonable productive potential and are of suf-
ficient size to warrant a more intensive application of technical, financial
and human resources. The three selected include two older settlements (in
Capiz and Bukidnon provinces) and one comparatively recent settlement, with
much uncleared land (Agusan del Sur). All exhibit the mix of more and less
productive upland and lowland terrain which is characteristic of settlements
everywhere in the Philippines and all are presently at or only a 'little above
subsistence farming in terms of current agronomic practice and levels of
living. It is anticipated that the two older settlements would, as a result
of the program, be suitable for declassification at the end of a five-year
period, while the less developed third area would continue as a settlement
beyond this period and perhaps form the nucleus of a second phase expansion
in organized settlement for the large adjacent areas of Agusan del Sur that
present similar problems and are similarly underdeveloped at the present time;
Agusan del Sur is among the least densely populated areas of the Philippines
with an average density in 1975 of 20 persons per sq. km.
Agusan del Sur Settlement
3.        The Agusan Settlement was activated in 1968 with a total land
area of about 16,500 ha, of which an estimated 3,000-5,000 ha are currently
cultivated by 1,700 families. It is within the political jurisdiction of
the municipalities of Talacogon, Prosperidad, San Francisco, San Luis, and
Esperanza, all in the province of Agusan del Sur, on the island of Mindanao.
Of the total population, about 700 are legal settlers, with certificates
of Allocation, with the remainder considered as prospective applicants. The



ANNEX 2
Page 2
registered settlers occupy designated farm lots averaging 4.6 ha, of which
some 840 have thus far been demarcated, covering 3,880 ha. In respect of the
settler-families, about half first came to the settlement area in the period
after 1969, when the settlement was activated; about 40% of the total are
migrants originally from the Visayas region (Cebu, Bohol).
4.        Over 90% of the households in the settlement list farming as
principal economic activity with mixed crop systems, including tree crops,
predominating. The vast bulk of the farms are in 4-5 ha plots, of which 2-4
ha are cleared and planted. For a smaller sample of some 600 settler-farmers,
1973 survey data indicate a farm holding of 4.4 ha, of which 3.2 ha are
cultivated and 2.7 planted to field crops.
5.        As indicated in Annex 3, crop yields are uniformly low in the area
even by Philippine standards, with major factors being the difficult agri-
cultural conditions (excessively steep slopes in the upland areas, poorly
drained lowland areas and much primary land clearing to be completed) combin-
ing with an extremely poor development of access and connecting roads and
relative isolation from main markets. In consequence, incomes in the settle-
ment are very low, with 84% of farm housholds reporting incomes below 03,000
per annum, and only 6% in the I5,000 and above range, indicating the virtual
absence of any moderate to high income class in this new community. Average
household income reported for the sample was only P1,600, equivalent to about
$32 per capita; 1/ 91% of households reported farming as main income source.
6.        Developmental actions on the part of the DAR are ongoing, having
begun in 1969. So far, a small township has been established (del Monte),
which includes a substantial office block (with radio telephone link up to HQ
in Manila); facilities for repair and operation of construction equipment,
which currently includes relatively new, but out of service, bulldozer and
grader plus three old trucks; and grain storage. So far, about 40 km of new
road have been constructed and maintenance is performed on a further 100 km of
old logging roads. The settlement is linked with a section of the Japan-
Philippine Friendship Highway from Butuan to Davao City by a 20 km graveled
access road (itself a national highway), which is planned to be further
developed with a major bridge crossing of the Agusan river at Talacogon
(currently under construction), thus linking the settlement to underdeveloped
areas west of the present area. Butuan in the north is about 98 km from the
settlement and Davao City 230 km to the south. The final construction work to
the main Butuan-Davao highway is presently ongoing and when completed in 1977
will constitute a major two-lane all concrete highway running north-south.
The developmental potential opened up by this new road is one of the reasons
why the Agusan settlement was chosen for accelerated development under the
proposed project.
1/   Data from a socio-economic survey undertaken by the Bureau of Agricul-
tural Economics, a part of project preparation in September 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        In addition to road construction, DAR is also assisting with a
communal irrigation facility (diversion dam) which on completion will provide
benefits to more than 300 ha for lowland rice cultivation. A health center
has also been established with one of the rare doctors available to DAR in
post. In general, however, amenities are very limited in this pioneer area;
primary schools are very few and housed in temporary buildings (half the
children do not attend school), communities lack water systems (though a
small minority of householders collect rainwater from the roof in purpose-built
containers); virtually all lighting is by local lampara (the del Monte town-
site is helped by a DAR generator which supplies current at certain times
of the day); over 80% live in one or two room straw huts (about 40 wooden
settler houses have been constructed by DAR); and virtually all households
cook by open wood fires. Malaria and schistosomiasis are endemic in the
area and fever/pneumonia related illnesses are a common cause of death.
8.        By special agreement with the DAR, agricultural extension, market-
ing services and credit have been delegated to the Mindanao Agricultural Re-
settlement Agency (MARA) whose staff and operations are funded by the National
Council of Churches of the Philippines (NCCP). Working with a staff of 10
extension agents, concentrating on about 400 farmers, with back up from one
subject matter specialist (rice), a considerable part of current achievement
is due to the efforts of this agency. For credit and marketing, consumer and
producer cooperatives have been established (including a store, shop, and
cono-type rice mill), and NCCP money has been available to establish a rural
bank in del Monte.  Considerable efforts have also been devoted to various
minor crops - rubber, coffee, albizzia falcata, etc., as well to small
livestock in efforts to diversify cropping systems and farm income sources.
9.        It is difficult on balance to weigh up the progress made in this
pioneer settlement without a clear understanding of the starting point some
six years ago.
10.       DAR itself has not maintained the considerable momentum of activity
in the early years, and the farm plot layout, which has been on a grid pat-
tern of equal-sized holdings regardless of agronomic potential, has hindered
on-farm development and contributed to farmers' problems. Financial resoures
have been very limited for infrastructure development and the balance of
equipment available, e.g. for road construction, is very inefficient, with
an obvious lack of trucks or resources to obtain them through local hire.
Management of the machinery and repair facilities is inadequate, leading to
considerable losses in down time for expensive items like bulldozers and
motor graders. Part of the problem reflects inappropriate capital budgeting
from central offices and poorly timed release of funds. Similarly, while
MARA has done useful work, the agency has lacked the contacts and expertise
to avail itself of support from other government agencies to exploit some
productive potential, e.g. for abaca development; in addition the agency has
lacked a trials and applied research facility to test out the applicability
of technical packages and innovations, so that the introduction of new crops
and varieties tends to proceed on a hit-or-miss basis, with the settler-
farmers bearing the brunt of the costs.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       A more general question that would also be addressed under the
proposed project is the appropriate mix of land use in the longer term
development of the area, given substantial parts of the upland terrain that
should remain under tree crops or general forest resources, but may or may
not do so, without firm management. This is an important general problem in
the Philippines that has not yet been solved in a satisfactory manner and
one that is particularly relevant to the future of the Agusan valley. The
settlement area sits to the east of a vast zone of mixed upland/lowland
terrain (including extensive swamps to the south) which is presently still
subject to logging operations, but which, in the course of logging operations
is gradually being made more accessible. How to approach the systematic
development of such an area is part of the wider significance of the Agusan
settlement; successful development here will pave the way for a successful
expansion of the land frontier, without the environmental and human costs
likely to be associated with the unplanned expansion and incursions that
are otherwise likely to take place.
Bukidnon Settlement
12.       This is the largest of the selected settlements, with a popula-
tion of 7,400 households (mid-1975 census data) or almost 50,000 people,
distributed over 36,000 ha of which approximately 25,000 ha or 68% are cul-
tivated including fallow. The settlement is within the political jurisdic-
tion of the three municipalities of Maramag, Pangantucan and Kalilangan;
these municipalities are administrative subdivisions of Bukidnon province on
the island of Mindanao. Unlike Agusan, the area has little reserve of land
for further expansion, and indeed at the present stage exhibits many signs
of overly ambitious extensive cultivation, with significant soil depletion
and erosion on steeper slopes. This settlement was opened in 1955 under the
administration of NARRA, during the most active phase of the resettlement
program of President MIagsaysay. At that time considerable numbers of people
were resettled - involving about 2,500 families - from various parts of the
Philippines, including substantial minorities from the Ilocos and Batanes
areas of northern Luzon. These "moved in" settlers were in addition to a con-
siderable local population clustered along the lowland valleys with a trading
center at Kalilangan. At the time of resettlement, the logging operations
had been virtually completed and, except on the upper slopes, evidence of
logging in the form of stumps, uncleared logs and residual (unwanted) primary
forest species has virtually disappeared. Some 5,000 farm lot subdivisions
were made, mainly in the range of 2 ha in the lowland rice reas, and 6 ha and
8 ha in the upland zones. Twenty years later, the process of abandonment of
agronomically worthless plots together with subdivision and reallocation (sale
of user rights and mortgaging) of cultivated lots has considerably modified
the original situation. Of 4,400 currently occupied farm lots, some 7% are
in the range 4.5 ha and below; 86% between 4.5 and 9.5 ha and the remaining
7% of larger size. In many cases, these occupied farm lots have been further
subdivided in terms of de facto usage within family groups (to accommodate
second generation families from the original settler-family of 20 years
ago) and in some cases, informal rental or sharecropping arrangements have



ANNEX 2
Page 5
been established, giving a few families control of as much as 40 to 60 ha of
land. Despite the length of period since settlement, and considerable changes
occurring during that time, relatively few land patents (see Annex 1) have
been applied for and fewer still issued. So far of only 1,100 applications,
.530 have been approved and a mere 99 issued. 1/ The relatively few applica-
tions probably reflect a reluctance on the part of many low income cultivators
to embark on a process that is recognized to be bureaucratically complicated,
time consuming and possibly expensive.  It has, however, been argued that the
lack of title has not been of great importance; in relatively large areas of
the Philippines, including more densely settled and socially more complex
areas, there is a similar lack of formal titling of land, despite well-under-
stood and general respect for traditional customary usage rights. 2/ In a new
area, therefore, the Certificate of Allocation has generally proved a satis-
factory instrument for most purposes; indeed it has been argued that too rapid
a titling process could encourage speculation and would accelerate a concen-
tration process in terms of ownership. 3/ On the other hand, lack of title is
an impediment in obtaining term credit for work animals, implements and
development loans for plantation or other permanent crops since land serves as
collateral. This issue is discussed in Annex 6.
13.       While agriculture (principally rice and corn) is the main activity
of some 80% of households in the settlement, there are a substantial minority
of non-farm households, clustered in and around the small trading and commer-
cial centers of Kalilangan and Pangantucan. These centers are on an important
connecting route (provincial highway) linking development areas to the west
of the Bukidnon settlement in the provinces of Lanao del Sur and Cotabato
with the national highway running north-south from the port city of Cagayan
de Oro (in the north) to General Santos and Cotabato City in the south. The
settlement itself is linked to the national highway at Maramag by a 25 km
stretch of gravelled road; from Maramag to Cagayan de Oro (the main market
and port outlet for surplus production from the area) is 160 km. This highway
is to be upgraded to class II status with support from the fourth IBRD High-
way Project (appraised mid-1976), and a significant expansion in activities
should follow, as the present route is extremely slow, owing to a very poor
gravel surface and inadequate bridge work for the considerable volume of
traffic. As described in Annex 9, the road network within the settlement,
while better developed than in either Agusan or Capiz, remains extemely poor,
and poses continuing problems in evacuating crop surplus and receiving crop
inputs. Partly for this reason, farmgate prices are well below economically
1/   Data as at September 1975.
2/   The lack of documentation and survey has been one important reason for
the comparatively slow progress in the land reform program, which in-
volves transfer of land to tenant tillers from owners.
3/   Inter-agency Report:  April 1974 "Resettlement in the Agrarian Reform
Program of the Philippines".



ANNEX 2
Page 6
appropriate levels and below NGA support levels and this inhibits the adop-
tion of improved technology; nevertheless income levels in this settlement
are substantially above those reported in Agusan and the spread is also sig-
nificantly wider. Data collected in the socio-economic survey indicate about
20% with incomes of f5,000 or more, 20% in the middle f3,000-5,000 range and
58% at lower income levels. The average income level among farm households
was ?2,800, i.e. about US$65 per capita. The generally higher status of the
population is also confirmed by a significantly better quality of housing
with greater use of wood and tin roofing (and in some cases cement and brick
structures with glass windows), and in the variety and range of goods produced
and sold in the local markets.
14.       As a relatively developed settlement community, infrastructure and
service facilities in Bukidnon are also considerably more advanced than in
Agusan; the areas has 22 primary schools with a total enrollment of 1,200;
rural health centers (manned in part by DAR staff and in part by DPH staff)
are established in Kalilangan and Pangantucan, and there are barrio health
posts in five villages. In addition to the DPH physicians stationed at
Kalilangan, there are also 3 doctors in private practice, 10 midwives (of
which 8 are government employees) and 6 family planning motivators. In terms
of agricultural infrastructure, the settlement has some 22 corn mills (6
roller, 16 grinder), about 50 kiskisan rice mills, 4 cono-type mills, plus
warehousing (40,000 tons) and commercial vehicles (113 registered in the 3
municipalities, with a capacity of 340 tons). Finally, a rural bank has just
been established (1976) in the settlement area at Kalilangan (some credit for
seasonal and term credit has been available from the rural bank at Maramag,
outside the settlement area).
15.       DAR and its antecedent agencies have maintained a staff and facil-
ities since the earliest days. Currently there are some 37 staff in post,
stationed at Pangantucan, including 12 agricultural staff, a small machine/
construction unit, as well as accounting and administrative capability. The
well-maintained construction capability, mainly used for road construction
and upkeep, has only a very limited program for want of funds. Agricultural
staff are largely ineffectual for want of technical back-up from subject
matter specialists, organized work schedules and materials for demonstration
and farmer training. Their work is not well coordinated with those of BAEX
and BPI technicians some 8 of whom work out of Kalilangan almost exclusively
in connection with the Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan supervised credit
programs for rice and corn. The lack of adequate seed supply and timely
availability of fertilizer have hindered the efforts of these specialist
agency technicians, together with the difficult market environment in which
to work with farmers on high input technologies.
16.       The Bukidnon settlement is long past the stage at which much ef-
fective settlement work in a narrow sense can be undertaken; rather, the
task is one of agricultural and infrastructure development and establishing
a cropping system that will preserve the somewhat precarious balance between
man and land. The DAR has been struggling with these latter tasks for some



ANNEX 2
Page 7
considerable time, without much to indicate a possible completion of them in
prospec-L. At one level, a quick and sustainable boost to production and farm
income would follow the upgrading of the road network that is proposed under
this project (together with benefits from upgrading major connecting highways
under other programs) plus exploitation of the relatively limited opportuni-
ties for irrigation. After completion of such a program, the settlement area
would not merit the continuing presence of a DAR team and could be integrated
with the surrounding communities, from which it does not markedly differ ex-
cept perhaps in respect of isolation exacerbated by the poor communication
system now existing.
17.       However, this settlement provides a challenge for a more ambitious
program which is both to support and assist in the development of more appro-
priate farm and cropping systems than are now available, and in the process,
to tackle related problems in the fields of credit, post harvest technology
and marketing that greatly hinder the spread of such improved technology as
is now available. The specific actions and agency responsibilities relating
to these objectives are discussed in the relevant technical annexes; a more
general point though is that such systems, while in part specific to the
special environment of the Bukidnon settlement area, are also of potentially
wide application in the much larger corn growing area of the Bukidnon plateau,
an area with a population of about half a million and growing rapidly at a
rate approaching 8% per annum. Finally, the Bukidnon settlement is directly
linked with a series of settlements that run roughly southwest into the
Cotabato valley, including Wao (18,000 ha), north Cotabato No. 1 (100,000
ha), north Cotabato No. 2 (28,000 ha), and Sultan Kudarat Nos. 1 and 2
(100,000 ha), many of which are actually or potential corn/rice areas with
substantial portions underdeveloped. Subject to improvement in peace and
order conditions (this settlements are located in a zone of Muslim/Christian
conflict), some or most of these areas would be suitable for development in
a second phase project.
Capiz Settlement
18.       The Capiz settlement covers a total land area of 25,000 ha, of
which about 10,000 ha are cultivated, and has a population of 4,600 families,
roughly 25,000 people. It is within the political jurisdiction of the three
municipalities of Dumarao, Cuartero, and Maayon in the Province of Capiz, on
the island of Panay in the western Visayan region. Capiz was proclaimed as
a settlement area in 1965 in the period of the Land Authority. Relative
to Bukidnon or Agusan del Sur, Capiz is a small, considerably more densely
populated province (150 persons per sq km), with generally easy access to the
provincial capital, the port of La Roxas in the north, and the Iloilo City in
the south. Moreover, unlike either Bukidnon or Agusan del Sur settlements,
the Capiz settlement had been opened up for settlement under the Homestead
Acts well before the settlement proclamation so that a considerable popula-
tion was resident at that time, with established and, in some cases, patented
land rights. Under the administration of the settlement authority some 3,000
farm lots were surveyed and allocated, two-thirds to existing occupants and



ANNEX 2
Page 8
the remainder to local pioneer settlers; these cover some 15,000 ha. The
remaining 10,000 ha, covering mainly the more mountainous areas, has not been
surveyed. Hence, very little resettlement into the area has been possible,
although partial survey of the area provided a legal basis for titling and
validation of user rights. In this settlement, only 6% of the population are
migrants from other provinces of the Philippines. Without a strong pioneer
focus, the Capiz settlement has not developed its own centers of populations
to any marked degree, and up to now has relied for such services as there
are, on municipal centers located outside the settlement area, especially
Dumarao. Dumarao is only 8 km to the east and connects with the main through-
route serving the lowland agricultural areas of the settlement.
19.       Information on farm lot and farm characteristics is particularly
difficult to interpret in this area and the sample survey undertaken as part
of project preparation was not sufficiently large to generate reliable data.
The basic allocation under Land Authority guidelines was 5 ha-6 ha plots.
However, the pre-existing land rights were validated and in some cases under
the Homestead Act these lots were up to 24 ha in extent. Many of the lots
have been formally or informally subdivided, with currently second or third
generation occupancy of the land. In this area of old settlement, some
particularly vivid examples of demographic expansion were uncovered during
project preparation. In one case, a young landless family representing the
third generation from the time of original settlement was one of six such
households now living on the original family plot of 18 ha (considerable
parts of which have now gone out of production due to soil depletion). There
is also a substantial group of some 800 tenant farmers who have been identi-
fied as potential beneficiaries under land reform, involving 300 owners and
some 1,300 ha of land in the settlement area. About 70 owners are reported
as having holdings larger than 7 ha.
20.       In this settlement socio-economic differences associated with land
holding are probably accentuated by the marked differences in profitability
of crops, notably as between sugar and upland rice/corn. Some 70% of the
existing sugar land is located in six barrios, whose population accounts for
about one-third the total number of households; many of the larger holdings
are also in areas where sugar can be grown on an extensive scale. In general,
the scope for sugar development in particular, while limited by agricultural
considerations, is also constrained by the very poor road network, most of
which is unpassable except by carabao sled and horsepack.
21.       Income data collected during preparation indicate a pattern in
which almost 75% of farm households had incomes below P3,000; a further 17%
between t3,000-V5,000 and only 9% at higher levels. The average was P2,800,
about the same level as for Bukidnon settlement. In this case, however,
rather more caution than usual is necessary since there is a probability
that the sample missed many high income households who reside outside the
settlement area but draw their incomes from farming and other activities
inside it. It seems likely that the distribution including such households
would be rather similar to the Bukidnon case, i.e. exhibiting fairly wide



ANNEX 2
Page 9
spread about a low average, with a significant minority of middle income and
well-to-do households. A further indication of extremely low income at the
bottom of the scale were reported wage rates (r3.50/4.00 per day and two
meals), a shade lower than in either Bukidnon or even Agusan.
22.       Conditions generally in the settlement area indicate that while
some residents - perhaps half of the total - enjoy benefits from relatively
easy access to facilities (schools, medical centers) outside the settlement
itself, many remain isolated from them, both by distance and the extremely
poorly developed road network. DAR and its antecedent agencies have done
least, in this settlement, as compared with the other two. Currently, the
small team occupy physical facilities markedly inferior to those found else-
where and have virtually no equipment or transport to work with. Most of
them have in fact been allocated to work with the very active land reform
program in the Capiz province, rather than with settlement work. Given the
relatively small and rather isolated areas available for sugar and rice
cultivation, little attention has been given to the area from production
technicians from Philsugin or the Department of Agriculture.
23.       Even more than is the case of Bukidnon, in Capiz major settlement
potential has long been exhausted. The need here is for infrastructure de-
velopment, particularly in the form of access farm-to-market roads which are
economically justified by opportunities for upgrading existing sugar and rice
lands and extending the former to areas now devoted to minor field crops, prin-
cipally corn and upland rice. Broader impact will also be achieved as part of
this program, by upgrading a central barrio, with strategic importance as a
road junction, to enable a new municipality to be created that will serve the
needs of the local settlement area population more effectively with credit,
agricultural sources, and marketing facilities. It is anticipated that a
rebuilt facility for project staff HQ would serve the immediate needs and at
the end of the project be converted to serve as municipal center for this
area.






PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
Sumsary of Project Costs by Type of Ixpanditure
(US$ '000)
Price        Total
Baseline    Physical              Contin-       Project     Less Duties      Net          F.E. Costs
Costs      Contin-      Sub-    gencies        Cost         and Taxes    Project      Z of
(Table 2)   genciesi/   Total   (Table 3)   (Cash Flow)    Z   Amount    Cost         Net Costs   A.uint
A. Ca vital Expenditure
a. BCaildings                                        1,69L         254      1,948       538         2,486        3      75    2,411         20           4b2
b.-e. Vehicles, Heavy Plant and Equipment               2,755          -       2,755       572         3,327       25     832    2,495         80         1,996
f. Infrastructure by Contract                        8,463       La        10.156     L2995        14,151        8   1,132   13,019         41         LID38
12,912       1,947    14,859      5,105        19,964            2,039   17,925                    7,816
B.  Operating Costs & Force Account
a. 'Salaries and Allowances                          2,443          -       2,443                   3,176              -       3,176
b.-d- Transport, Office Running & Other Supplies          875          _         875        263        1,138       20     228       910         62          564
e. Forest Establishment                                385          _         385        139          524        8      42       482         20           96
f. Civil Works - Force Acci.unt                      1,506          301     1,807        534        2,341       15     351    12990          58
5,209         301      5,510     1,669         7,179              621    6,558                    1,814
C.  Other Items
a. Consultancy Services                              1,042          -       1,042        273        1,315               -      1,315         45           592
b. Pre-Service Training Courses                         50          -          50          6            56              -         56         10             6
c. Foreign Travel (Senior Staff Training)               66          -          66         12            78              -         78         95            74
d. Schistosomiasis Control                              55          -          55         18            73              -         73         20            15
1,213                  1,213       309         1,522                     1,522                      687
D.  Credit
Term Credit Items                                 1,620          -       1,620        576        2,196               -      2,196         30           609
Seasonal Credit                                   1,222          -       1,222        501        1,723                                    50           862
2, 842                 2g,842    1,077         3,919                      3,919                   1,521
Total Project Costs                         22,176        2,2148    24421      8.i160       21660 S 24                               140         838
1/  From Table 2.



flNU 13
Table 2
PRILIFPDS
RURAL D3VEKL0M II
Prolect Baseline Costs by Cost Category and Componendt
(USS '00)
A.M.U.                                                 Civil Works
Admin.                                                    loads,
Settlement                                               Irrigation
Evaluation                                                 Drainage,
Engineering                                                Soil Con-   Cooperative
Support       A.M.U.                         anpower      servation    Development                       Physical
Figures              Credit         Agri-    A.M.u.              Development  Water Sup-   and Credit   Credit                Contingency
from     C.P.M.U. Assistance    culture  Forestry  Health  (Training)   plies, etc.  Assistance   Funds    Total    Z   Amount
Onnem   (15)         (15'        (5)       (12)      (11)       (16)           (9)           (7)        (6)
A.  Capital Costs
a. Buildings
i. houses                                   327        265         17       19                                       75                 703      15    105
ii. other                                     319      522          14      136                                       -                   991     15    149
Sub-total                           nr        787     3          1 1 55                                     75                1,694            254
b. Vehicles & initial spares         44          Z39       336          20       19                                      55                  713
c. leavy plant & spares &
related equipment                                                                                    1,612                              1,612
d. Office equipment, tools 6
technical equiprent               57          169        S0           4      44          10                            9                  372
e. Other equipment                                           4                   12         36                            1                   58
Sub-total              T101 420                                     75          46          1,612           69                2,755
f. Contract/force account
expenditure in:
i. forestry roads 6
tracks & maintenance                                         (221)                                221                               221      20      44
ii. roads                                                                                           5,478                             5,478      20  1,096
iii. irrigation & drainage                                                                            2,493                             2,493     20    499
iv. soil conservation
experimental designs
& structures                                                                                        27                               27      20       5
v  village water supplies                                                                             244                               244     20      49
vi. health facilities                                                       (40)                                                        (40)    20
Sub-total                                                                                                                     8,463           6tS
B.  Operating Costs
a. Salaries & allovances            429          905       656          60     162           85                         146                2,443
b. Vehicle operating costs
& transportation                 112          143       142          24       9          16                           2S                  474
c. Office supplies                   13           13        33          11                    2                           9                   81
d. Other supplies                    96          100        54                   70                                                          320
a. Forestry  satsblishast costs                                        385                                                                   385
i. Civil Works - Force Account
i. roads (consolidation                                                                                                                         20
and rehabilitation)                                                                              1,319                             1,319            264
ii. soil conservation                                                                                  187                               187     20      37
Sub-total              650        1,1T        1           480      241         103          1,506         183                 5,209            301
C.  Other Items
a. Conaultancy services             999                                                      43                                            1,042
b. Pre-sersice-oriestatiom
courses (extension)                                                                      50                                                50
c  Yoreigi tradel (senior
staff training)                   66                                                                                                       66
d. Schiatosomiasis contzol
(capital 6 recurrent)                                                        55
Sub-total            l,                                            T5          93                                             1,213
D.  Credit
b. Seasmol credit                                                                                                                1,222    1,222
b. Term credit                      _                                   _       _                                                1,620    1,620
Gross Baseline
Costs              1,816        2,215    2,092          535     526         242         11,581           327      2,842   22,176           2,248
(756)   (566)
1/ Source: See Annexes of appropriate headings.
2 M  MS$%74 roads; U0$653 irrigation and drainage; US$85 soil conservation.



ANNEX 13
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
Price Contingency Calculati,ons-
(US$ '000
Anticipated Percentage
Outlay by Years                      Annual Costs by Years
1     2    3    4    5        0      1       2        3         4        5        Total
A. Capital Expenditures
a. Buildings                                         20   40   40    -    -        -      390      779      779      -        -        1,948
b.-e. Vehicles, Heavy Plant and Equipment               60   30    5    5    -        -   1,653       826      138      138               2,755
f. Infrastructure by Contract                        10   20   25   25   20        -   1,016   2,031   2,539   2.539   2,031    10,156
Sub-total incl. Physical Contingencies                                         3,059   3,636   3,456   2,677   2,031    14,859
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                                                10         9        9        8.5      8        8
Compound Factor (7) Used                                                           15.0    25.3    36.2    47.5    59.3
Projected Price  Contingencies                                                   457      920   1,253   1,271   1,204         5,105
B.  Operating Costs & Force Account
a. Salaries and Allowances                           15   23   23   23   16        -      366      562      562      562      391      2,443
b.-d. Transport, Office Running & Other Supplies   15   23   23   23   16              -     131      201      202      201      140         875
e. Forestry Establishment                             4   13   22   32   29        -       15       50       85      123      112        385
f. Civil Works - Force Account                       21   20   20   20   19        -      380      361      362      361      343      1,807
Sub-total                                                                        892   1,174   1,211   1,247         986      5,510
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                                                 8        7.5      7.5      7.5      7         7
Compound Factor (%) Used                                                          12.1    20.5    29.5    38.9    48.6
Projected Price Contingencies                                                    108      240      357      485      479      1,669
C.  Other Items
a. Consultancy Services                              25   25   24   17    9               260      261      250      177       94      1,042
b. Pre-Service Training                             100   -    -    -    -                 50      -        -        -        -           50
c. Foreign Travel                                    20   80   -    -    -                 13       53      -        -        -           66
d. Schistosomiasis Control                           10   10   34   23   23                 6        5       19       13       12         55
Sub-total                                                                        329      319      269      190      106      1,213
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                                                 8        7.5      7.5      7.5      7        7
Compound Factor ('I.) Used                                                        12.1    20.5    29.5    38.9    48.6
Projected Price Contingencies                                                     40       65       79       74       51        309
0. Credit
Term Credit                                                                            -        305      446      417     452       1,620
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                                                  8        7.5      7.5      7.5     7        7
Compound Factor (%) Used                                                           12.1    20.5    29.5    38.9    48.6
Projected Price Contingencies                                                      -       62      132      162      220        576
Seasonal Credit (Revolving Fund Basis)                                                                                  1,222      1,222
Compound Factor (%) Used                                                                                              41.0
Projected Price Contingencies                                                                                        501        501
Total Projected Price Contingencies                                              605   1287   1,821   1,992   2,455           8,16
1/ Based on July 1976 costs with anticipated start of project July 1977.



Arm= 14b
Table 1
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
Sumawury Of PraoPoed Flnancing
Proposed
Total 1/               IBRD       Disburse-
Category                              Costs     Local       Loan         ment   2/
(Table 2)   Funds   Allocation         %    -
I.  Ebnlaet:                       3,000        800     2,200
(a) Directly imported items                                      100  Foreign costs
(b) Other procurementa                                           100  ex local factory
65  Other purchases
II.   Civil Works:                                              3/
(a) Building construction      2,000      1,100       90 J l      45
(b) Other civil works         12,700      7,000     5,700-        45
III. Consultantas Services and
Overseas Trainine                900        200        700       100  Foreign costs
65 Local costs
IV.  Project Personnel Salaries
and other Operatinf Costs      4,300      2,400     1,900         45
V. Term Credit Fund                1,900      1,000        900       47 (60)
VI.  Unallocated                    6,100      3,400      21700
Sub-total      30,900    15,900    15,000
Seasonnl Credit                1,700      1,700        -
Total Project Cost        32,600    17,600    15,000
a.a, .......m..    u.... ...... ...
Foreign Exchange Costs
(from Annex 13, Table 1)                           11,838
=..ma..
1/ Total cost (cash flow) includes duties and taxes estimated to be US$2.6 million.
7/  Calculated at flat rate disbursement percentages of total project outlays (cash
flow) for each category except for category V, see footnote 3.
3/  Includes approx. $0.1 million force account works.
1V Inrludes approx. $1.1 milUln force account works.
Represents 60% of Centrnl Bank on-lending which represents approx. 80% of total costs.



ANNEX 14
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
Project Costs by Principal Account Categories
(US$ '000)
Add  50%
Crtegory                                         Base         Price                  Allocated
Costs    Contingency      Total      Funding
I. Equinment:
Vehicles, Plpnt, Office and
Technical Equipment                      2,755         286         3,041       3,000
II. Civil Works:
(a) Building construction materials,
labor (or contract)                 1,694          269         1,963       2,000
(b) Other civil works:
(i) road improvement, irrigation,        -
and land development            8,463        1,997        10,460
(ii) road rehabilitation and
consolidation                   1,506          267         1,773
(iii) forest establishment                385           70           455
10,354       2,334        12,688      12,700
III. Consultants' Services and
(a)-Expatriate services                      377          50           427
(b) Local services                           324          42           366
(c) Foreign travel (training)                66            6            72
767          98           865         900
IV. Management and Technical
Services:
(e) Salaries                               2,443          367        2,810
(b) Transport, office running and
other supplies                        875          131         1,006
(c) Pre-service training                      50            3           53
(d) Schistosomiasis control                   55            9           64
(e) Inter-.gency secondments and
mapping                                341           44          385
3,764         554         4,318       4,300
V.  Term Credit                                1,620          288         1,908      1,900
VI. Unallocated:
(a) Physical contingencies                                           2,248
(b) 50% price contingencies                                          3,830
6,078      6,100
Total                                                30,862      30,900
1/ Seasonal Credit (US$1.7 million) excluded.



ANNEI 14
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DLVEILOPFT II
1/
Estimated Schedule of Ependitures
(US* 1000)
Base Costs &
Fiscal            Physical
Year            COntingencies      Term          Price
Less Credit      Credit    Caitingencies    Expenditure
1977/78            4,585                           605              5,190
1978/79            5,301             305         1,287              6,893
1979/80            4,900             446         1,821              7,167
1980/81            3,926             417         1,992              6,335
1981/82            2,870             452         1,954              5,276
Total        21,582           1,620         7,659            30,861
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Bank                        Account Categories                         fDisbursement
Fiscal               II, IV,               VI (unallocated                  Loan
Year          I       and V       III      contingencies)                  Amount
1978       1,824                                                            1,320
2,603                                                1,170
167                                         135
596                         264
2,889
1979         912                                                              660
4,608                                                2,073
255                                         206
1,118                         497
3,436
1980        152                                                              110
5,355                                               2,41 0
195                                         159
1,465                         650
3,329
1981         152                                                              110
4,542                                               2,050
164                                         133
1,477                         656
2,949
1982
3,770                                               1,697
84                                          67
1,422                         633
2,397
5-Year
Totals      3,040     20,878      865           6,078                      15,000
=....     .. ....                    .....                     ......
1/  Excluding seasonal credit (US$1.7 million).



ANNEX 14
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursementsl/
(US$ '000 equivalent)
IBRD Fiscal Year         Estimated 2/   Cumulated       Balance
and Semester         Disbursemenr   Disbursement    of Loan
Fiscal 1978
1st Semester                 _                _         15,000
2nd Semester               1,300            1,300       13,700
Fiscal 1979
1st Semester               1,600            2,900       12,100
2nd Semester               1,700            4,600       lo,400
Fiscal 1980
1st Semester               1,700            6,300        8,700
2nd Semester               1,700            8,000        7,000
Fiscal 1981
lst Semester               1,600            9,600        5.400
2nd Semester               1,500          11,100         3,900
Fiscal 1982
1st Semester               1,50O           12,640        2,4oo
2nd Semester               l,4oo           14,000       1,000
Fiscal 1983
1st Semester               1,000          15,000
g/ Calculated on basis of an average lag between expenditure
and disbursement of six months.
2/ Figures in Annex l1, Table 3 rounded.






ANNEX 18
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPIMENT II
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Cost and benefit flows from project actions in the three settlement
areas, adjusted to economic prices are shown in Table 1. Rates of return were
for Agusan 17%, for Bukidnon 31%, and for Capiz 41%. The combined rate of
return was 28%.
Excluded Items
2.        The costs shown are those necessarily incurred in achieving the
projected incremental outputs of rice, corn, sugar, abaca and coffee. While
justified on social grounds and having some bearing on the achievement of
project objectives, the relatively small costs for health services and village
water supplies (US$1.0 million) are not included for want of adequate indica-
tors of project benefit. Similarly, the small forestry component (US$0.9
million) has also been excluded, again because economic prices for timber in
the local areas where it would be consumed are difficult to assess, although
the component is expected to generate a financial return at least 10% (see
Annex 12) and the economic return would almost certainly exceed this estimate.
Cost Items
3.        Costs for roads and irrigation are taken from Annex 9, Tables 2
and 6, adjusted to economic values using the estimates for tax and duty
content shown in Table 2. Costs include physical contingencies. Costs for
administrative and technical services are adjusted from the financial data
of Annex 5, Tables I and 2 (agricultural services), Annex 7, Table 2, and
Annex 15, Tables 5, 6 and 7 for other administrative and management costs.
Adjustments for local taxes and duties for these items are also shown in
Table 2.
4.        On-farm incremental costs - for seasonal and long term develop-
mental inputs - were derived from the financial estimates summarized in
Tables 1 to 7 of Annex 4, together with the projected rates of development
shown in Table 4 of Annex 3. The crop budget estimates, together with ex-
planation of the adjustments to economic values, are shown in Table 3.
Foreign Exchange
5.        Because of import taxes and quantitative restrictions, the official
exchange rate understates the value to the economy of foreign exchange to
be utilized in carrying out the project and earned or saved by incremental
outputs. In the absence of the detailed information needed to compute






ANNEX 18
Page 2
specific conversion factors, the estimated standard conversion factor (SCF)
for the Philippines was about 0.9 for the three years 1972-74. This ratio
implies a shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 = M8.33, which was used in the
economic analysis.
Labor Costs
6.        One reflection of the chronic poverty of these areas is the consider-
able volume of low productivity working and unemployment found in all three of
them. Approximately 90% of the combined population of the 13,700 families
gain their principal income from farming. With an average farm family size of
six persons, the total labor force available for agriculture is in excess of
30,000 man-years, assuming roughly 2.5 full-time equivalent adults per family.
Crop work in respect of project crops (the vast bulk of the total) currently
accounting for about 42,000 cropped ha, is calculated to require some 3.5
million man-days of labor. At 250 man-days per annum, the 30,000 man-years
of labor would be equivalent to some 7.5 million man-days. Hence, direct crop
requirements currently account for under 50% of the total labor supply. In
the three areas, non-crop derived income (including livestock, casual labor,
trade and service income) varies between 30% and 40% of crop income for farm
families. Average earnings per day from supplementary sources are estimated
as equal to the average derived from crop work, about f 6 per day. On this
assumption, the labor required for non-crop related work can be estimated as
1.3 million man-days.
7.        Under the project, at full deelopment, an additional 20,000 ha
would be cropped and improved technologies to be introduced under the project
require on average about 20% more labor input per ha. Hence, the labor
requirement for crop production is estimated to increase by 2.9 million
man-days, i.e. by some 80%, at full development. The economic cost of the
substantial incremental employment generated by the project is largely a
question of likely trends in the labor markets accessible to the growing
settlement populations, which markets may be local (in and around the settle-
ment areas) and more distant, with access conditional on temporary or permanent
migration from the settlement area. There is considerable evidence and
numerous studies for the Philippines that indicate a likely continuing problem
in generating jobs in sufficient volume to match increasing population. 1/
Real wages in agriculture and for unskilled urban occupations have stagnated
or declined in real terms in recent years. The prospects for improved employ-
ment opportunities and incomes in the absence of the project appear therefore
somewhat bleak for the expanding local or migratory population. Economic cost
calculations assume:
1/   The Basic Economic Report of 1976 projects an annual increment to the
labor force of one half million per annum over the next decade.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
(a) larger number of workers retained in the area (or
attracted to it) than would be the case otherwise
as a result of the project;
(b) higher utilization rates in terms of workdays per
worker.
8.        The prospect of higher earnings for crop-related work on farm
should stimulate a supply response which, in respect of existing farm families,
would either reduce underutilization, or result in some diversion of labor
from non-crop related work, or most likely, some combination of the two.
Diversion would be limited because crop calendars in all three areas are
fairly flexible with the relatively even distribution of temperature and
rainfall. It is assumed that two-thirds of higher labor input on crop-related
tasks would be economically costless (i.e. serving to reduce existing under-
employment) and that one-third would be diverted from non-crop work. In
effect, these assumptions imply that labor utilization among farm families
would increase in total from about 65% currently (4.8 million man-days of 7.5
million man-days available - para 4), to 5.6 million man-days i.e. to 75% of
labor availability. Incremental labor provided for project crops would then
be 1.2 million man-days, with 0.4 million man-days drawn from existing alter-
native uses, at a value assumed to be V6 per day. The remaining incremental
demand of the project for labor, accounting for 1.7 million man-days (para 6),
is assumed to be met by workers (farm families) that would otherwise have
migrated out of the settlement (in settlements where natural increase exceeds
the labor requirement - easily the case in Bukidnon and Capiz) or from workers
who migrate into the settlement (Agusan). It is assumed in respect of this
type of incremental employment that earnings foregone are equivalent of
current average agricultural incomes in Capiz and Bukidnon, implying a cost
of t6 per man-day. For Bukidnon and Capiz, combining both the element of
higher utilization per man and additional numbers of workers, gives an average
economic cost for incremental labor required by the project of about r4.50
per incremental man-day of employment, i.e. 75% of the going market wage.
For Agusan, incremental labor requirements are high and existing population
is small so that larger external flows of workers to the settlement are
required. For this settlement therefore a full rate of r6 per man-day was
charged 100% of the going market wage.
Project Benefits
9.        Production projections were taken from Table 4 of Annex 3; economic
pricing is shown in Table 4. Project benefits are slightly underestimated by
the failure to allow for (i) road user savings in respect of passenger traffic
and existing (current) marketed production from the project areas, and (ii)
benefits from soil conversion practices (erosion control). On the other hand
there is some ongoing farm development for certain crops in certain areas -
e.g. rice and corn in Bukidnon and rice in Agusan, and some presumption that
this would continue in the absence of the project. Costs and uncertainties
associated with taking full account of these factors were adjudged not worth



ANNEX 18
Page 4
the gain precision resulting therefrom. Similarly, because the vast majority
of the population fall into the poverty target group, a calculation of a
social rate of return to the project would clearly yield a social rate above
the economic rate and in view of the justification for the project provided by
the latter is superfluous.
Sensitivity Analysis
10.       Important risk factors are of three types in this project:  (i)
a slower pace of implementation than foreseen, leading to a slower building
up of project benefits; (ii) farmer response below that anticipated, affecting
the rate of adoption of improved technology; and (iii) domestic and inter-
national price factors affecting the prospects for particular crops. The
latter is of particular concern, since it would affect both the economic
valuation of incremental output and incremental output itself, though an
impact on farmer response (point ii). In addition, the failure or partial
failure of abaca would have serious consequences for development in Agusan,
ditto sugar in Capiz, ditto corn in Bukidnon. The other face of the coin,
however, is the low probability of failure in all crops simultaneously.
Similarly, given the number of agencies and variety of cost streams built into
the project, partial success would still be achieved with major cost overruns
in respect of any one item or with failure on the part of one or more agencies
to perform according to the requirements of the project.
11.       Rates of return on the basis of certain adverse assumptions of
project development are shown below. With the most adverse combination,
representing an outcome judged highly unlikely, the project is marginally
viable.
Rate of Return
Agusan   Bukidnon   Capiz   Combined
Costs + 20%             11          24        32        21
Benefits - 20%          14          26        34        23
Benefits - 50%           7          16        23        15



ANNi 18
TABLE I
PHILIPPINES
Rt003 D0V9110NAU1T 
C0o1C ANALYS1I
Elrgin    Rote of . esson Calculation
('D00 Peso.)
1.                                                             FfY         PY2        py3        fl4                  P76__     py7       PY8             n      io      Pill       Fy12           pylS Fy16    PYS-20
1.  AGUSAN SETTLEMENT AREA
A.  Loonoolo Costs
1.  Roads                                              2782       5366       5493       5555       1772      1656      1656      1656       1656      1656      1656       1656      1656      1656      1656
2.  Irrigation and drainage                            1952       3515       3604       3553        472      (588)      472       472        472       472       472        472       472       472       472
5.  Ad4inlotiati-n and tochnicnl eoei.eo_/
a.  capital costs                               1626       2070         965         33          -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -
6.   operating costs                             215       1153        1176       1143       859       600        600       600       600        600       400       400       400        400       400
4.  On-fooo coot.                                         -       3729       3633        6465      92499   11440    12796       13528      13638    13168    13085    13162         13244    13330      13525
Total                                       7075      15833      14871      16789    12352    13108    15524    16256           16366     15896     15613    15690    15772        15858     16053
B.  Etonn.l  B.nnfilts
1.  Abaa                                                  -          -        181       1086       2534      4344      6154      7964       9774    11765    12670    13575         14480    15928    15928
2.  Rice                                                _          552       1277       4632       8759    12795    16021    17539    18325    19065    19382    19974    20496               20622    20795
Tatol                                          -        552       1458        5718     11293    17139    22175    25503    28099    30830    32052    33549    34976    36550    36725
C.  Net BOnofito                                          -7075    -15281    -13413        -11071    -1059       4031       6651      9247     11733    14934       16439    17859    19204    20692         206750
Ecoco-ic Rato of Retuer: 17%
~1.  B0KI125N SOLEttO9T ARiA
A.  Ecotonic Cntos
1.  Roads                                             6271       11507       7574       7029       2679      2296      2296      2296       2296      2296      2296      2296       2296      2296      2296
-.  [etigasioc  .nd drainage                           2671       3860        343         120       135      (375)      135        135       135       135        135       135       135       135        135
3. Adc.inisc-ti-t and technicalse1 nicn.
a.  capital cones                               2733       2611       2026         441         -      (420)              -               -         -         -         -          -         -         -
b.  apcating cootn                               906       1270        1293       1300      1064        500       500       500       506        500       250       250       250        250       250
a.  -r-tr   -ota                                          -       1347       3340        5536      7262      9312    12255      13226      14665    15383      15470      15302    15340    15571    15571
Total                                      12501      20595      14554      14426    11640    11313    15186    16157           17596     18314    18151       18103     18221    18252      18252
B. Ecocosic Bennefit2
1.  Corn                                                  -       1910       5375        9042    12609    16276       19954    22068       24181    25268    2526S    25268         25268    25268    25268
.  R6cr                                                            486       2707        4855      7201      9452    11485      11973      12499    13083    13314        13314     13314     13314    13314
3.  Coff-ee                                                       1182       1530        1948      2476      3060      3756      4452       6538      7234      7029       8486      8833      9042       9042
fatal                                          -       3578       9612      15043     22286      28788    35195      38493    43210       45585    46511    47068    47415    47624    47624
C.  Net Bentfit                                          -12581    -17017        -4942       1419    10646    17475    20009    22336          25622    27271       28360    28885    29194    29372    29372
Eco-n-in Rate no f R-t-:  314.
*    CAREI SEiCItEMENt AREA
A.  Econa-ic Costs
1.  Roads                                              2696       5574       4074         756       547       657       652        657       657       657        657       637       637       657        657
.  Irrigation  nod drainage                             255        759       1764       1063        112       112       112        112       112       112       112        112       102       112       112
3.  Adoiristratin ad tec-hic-. services
a.  capit.1 costs                               2253       2467        1778        106          -      (515)        -                                        -         -          -         -         -
b.  oporaccod costs                              928       1481        1504       1511      1090        500       500       500       500        500       250       250       250        250       250
a4  vT  1. tm costs                                       _           _-      2311       4367      5946      0316    10463    11621        12673     12887      13425     13492    13492    13492    13492
roc. l                                     6132      10281       11406       7803      7695       9870    11752      12890    13942    14156    14694    14761    14261            14761    14261
B2. Economic_benefi ts
i.  S 4dr-                                                                   5294        9226    11934    15025       18452    21604       22108     22338    22843    22843    22843    22843    22843
2   Rico                                                  -           -       1073       2773      5759      7280    10186       11456     12380     13021     13291    13425    13425    13425    13425
3.  Corn                                                  -           -        259        351       480       527        553       663       728       773        838       884       004       884       084
Total                                         _-          -       6626       12350    10173    22832    29191        35723      35217    36132      36972     37152      37152     37152    3252
C.  Not Benofits                                          -6132    -12821        -4780       4347    10478    13762    17439    20033    21275    21976    22298    22391    22391    22391    22391
Econoinc nate of r tarn.  41%
Prcrot Net Benefit
Econonic Rate af Ratnrn:  2867
I/ Cnsts arc rednced by t-sid,al -ala- of ncnh-m  bnildingo  (oncept agei-1lnnel bnildings) and faore  -cco-nt oqaipoont in Capio  nd BIkidnon.
Corn of technical .cd .datciscrotito strvices years PY6-10 isciude maoit.nan..  of agricultural nervicos; aftne  PY10 these so tines geoorato
benefits so a nod er are- and casts atrtnib-    aiin  to tin ortalsarIt are reduced pro rata.  Rn Agnean, fall naintonanco  of peojett facilitiog  in
.ss17 d co PY10.



ANNEX 18
TTh3 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
TAX, DUTY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTENT USED
IN ECONOMIC COST ESTIMATES
% Duties    % Foreign
and Taxes    Exchange
(net of taxes)
1. Road Construction
Constructi n Materials:
Gravel l/                                   8          38-23
Equipment                                  25           70
Labor                                      -             -
Other                                       5           10
Maintenance Equipment                        15           80
Maintenance Operating Costs                  20           50
Contractor Services                           5            -
2. Irrigation and Drainage
Construction Materials                        5           30
Equipment Purchase                           15           80
Operation and Maintenance                    20          27-36
Wages
Design, Engineering Overhead                 -            10
Miscellaneous                                 5           10
3. Technical and Administrative Services
Buildings and Iousing                        10           20
Vehicles                                     40           80
Supplies and Equipment                       10           25
Salaries                                     -             -
Vehicle O&M                                  20           50
Travel                                        5           60
Training                                     -            10
Other                                        10           20
4. On-Farm Costs (see also Table 3)
Seed/Animal Traction                         -            -
Fertilizer/Chemicals                         -            80
Tool                                                      50
1/ Includes cost of transport.



AIqNX IS
34                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TABLE 3
0- --     -     -    -    -     -    --~   4     ---    --      --      --
- -     -  -    -  - -  -    -  - -  -         -- -  -     -    -    -     -    -     -    -
2 2 2 2                                                 .'.44;40    ~ ~~~~~~~~--34344-40                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .  
- - -   -     -    -    -     - -     -    -    -     -    -    - -      -    -    -     -    -
34               3   -- - - -    -    --      -    -     -    --       -      --                                                                                                                                                                               -    --       --      --      -    --      --      --       --      --      --      -
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~             4--!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 3
0-~~~~~~~~40--                                                                            -    -    --      -     --      -    --      -    --      -     --      -    -
34-4-44        34                        ~                         -    -     --      -    --       --      -    --      -    --       --      -    --      -
4-4'     2'~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                  340~t 
- - - - - - - -    --- - - - - - - - -



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
ECONOMIC AN&LYSIS
Price Structure for Project Crops, 1985-
1.  R I C E                                                                         2.  C O R N
o/Ton   US$/Ton                                                              f/Ton    USS/Ton
Export price of Thai                                                                Export price, US No2, fob Gulf                   975          117
25-35% broken, fob Bangkok                             2066       248
Ocean freight and insurance                      250          30
Ocean freight and insurance                             183        22
Import price, cif Manila                        1225         147
Import price, cif Manila                               2249       270 
Less transport and insurance
Less transport and insurance from project areas-2/  211            25                 from project areas                              211         25
Rice price ex-mill, project areas                      2040       245               Farmgate corn price                              1016         122
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)                  1283       154               (Financial farmgate price)
Milling costs less value of by-products                1283       154
Farmgate paddy price
(Financial farmgate price)-
3.  S U G A R                                  fTon    US$/Ton          4.  C O      F F E E                       /Ton       $/Ton              ABACA                           /on    US$/Ton
Export sugar price, fob Iloilo4/            2649       318              Export price fob Latin American                                      Export price (average S2
Ports   13869      1665                 & G grades) fob Davao City   4885          586
Transport and handling, msill/to
Iloilo-                42         5              Ocean freight and insurance             250        30                Exporters costs & profits2   1000          120
Sugar price, ex mill                        2607       313              Import price, cif Manila              14119      1695                Buying price, Davao City        3885       466
Milling costs                               1140       137              Less transport and insurance                                         Transport and handling
from project areas                   211        25                   farm to Davao City             265        32
Transport costs, farmgate to mill2/           32         4
Farmgate coffee price                13911      1670                Farmgate abaca price             3620       434
Farmgate sugar price                        1435       172
(Financial farmgate price)          (6000)                          (Financial farmgate price)  (2750)
Export molasses price, fob Iloilo4/          333        40
Transport and handling, mill to Iloilo-/  42             5
Molasses price, ex mill                      291        35
Milling and local transport costsV'            -         -
Farmgate molasses price                      291        35
Farmgate sugarcane price-6                   153        18
(Financial farmgate price)                  116
1/  f or US$/ton at constant mid-1976 prices.  Shadow exchange rate is used of US$1.00 = t8.33.
2/  Includes 50 percent foreign exchange costs, calculated at US$1.00 - f8.33, the domestic cost component calculated at official rate
of US$1.00 = P7.50.
3/  From crop budgets of Annex 4.                                                                                                                                                               I!
4/ Based on projected price fob Caribbean minus US$10 for transport differential.
5/ Assumed to be covered by milling and local transport costs of sugar.
6/ Based on milling rate from sugar cane of 3 percent molasses and 10 percent sugar.



ANNEX 1 9
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
SCHEDULE OF EARLY EVENTS
1.  First Civil Works Contracts- Upgrading of Stretches within
Access Roads (90 km gross length)
(a) DPH completes detailed engineering design and
tender documents and advertises                            July         1977
(b)  Preparation and submission of bids                         Aug/Sept.   1977
(c)  Evaluation of bids and award contracts                     September   1977
(d)  Start construction                                         November    1977
2. First Civil Works Contracts - Village Roads
(a)  DPH and BBR complete engineering design and
tender documents and advertise  (115 km)                   December    1977
(b)  Preparation and submission of bids                         Jan/Feb.    1978
(c)  Evaluation of bids                                         April        1978
(d)  Start construction                                         June         1978
3.  Procurement of Force Account Construction Equipment
(a) DAR and DPH complete tender documents for force
account eouipment and advertise  (ICB)                     July         1977
(b)  Evalunte bids and award contracts                          September   1977
(c)  Receive construction equipment                             April/May   1978
4. First Force Account Construction
(a) DAR and BBR complete survey of initial priority
works for road rehabilitation                              July         1977
(b)  Complete repAirs existing machinery                        August       1977
(c)  Complete detailed work program for P Y 1 road
rehabilitation work                                        September   1977



ANNEX 19
Page 2
(d) NIA complete review of two partially completed
communal irrigation schemes                                September   1977
(e)  Start road rehabilitation work                             September   1977
(f) Start construction of small irrigation structures
not requiring new construction eauipment                   September   1977
(g) DAR and NIA complete review of San Vincente
irrigation scheme and start  minor works construction   January         1978
(h) DAR and NIA complete survey of small comunal
irrigation projects in Capiz and commence detail
design                                                     March        1978
(i) Start construction of access tracks and expand
road rehabilitation in program with new
construction equipment                                     May          1978
(j) Start irrigation construction works requiring new
construction equipment in Bukidnon                         June         1978
(k) DAR and NIA complete survey and design of other
minor irrigation schemes in Bukidnon and Agusan            July         1978
(1) NIA completes survey of Sianib communal irrigation
scheme (Agusan) and commences detail design                July         1978
(m) DAR and NIA canplete design of first minor and
mini-irrigation schemes in Capiz                           July         1978
Offices Agricultural Services Centers and Other Buildings
(a)  Complete designs and acquire sites                         June         1977
(b)  Complete prep;ration of tender documents for
priority building construction and advertise               July        1977
(c)  Preparation and submission of bids                         Aug/Sept.   1977
(d)  Evaluate bids and award contracts                          Sept/Oct.   1977
(e) Start force account and mini-contract construction
of minor buildings and alteration to existing
buildings                                                  October     1977
(f)  Start contract construction of priority buildings          November    1977
(g)  Complete construction of first buildings                   Jan/Feb.    1978



AMINEX 19
Page 3
6. Manpower and Training
(a)  Appoint project manager and nucleus support staff          March        1977
(b) Prepare tenders and advertise for initial office
equipment and minor vehicles                               May          1977
(c)  Acquire new HQ office accoumodation                       June         1977
(d) Select area managers, expatriate advisor and other
key support staff                                          June         1977
(e)  Complete details of training schedule for first
six months                                                 June         1977
(f) GCnplete new recruitment schedule for first year
and advertise for early requirements                       June         1977
(g) Receive initial office equipment and early
required vehicles                                          July         1977
(h) Start new staff recruitment and initial transfers
to CPMU                                                    July         1977
(i) Finalize details of initial staff orientation
training course and arrangements for those
to attend                                                  July         1977
(j)  Start training courses                                     August       1977
(k)  Start new postings to field positions                      October      1977
(1)  Principal settlement level staff positions filled          January      1978
(m) 80% of gross settlement level staff in position             June         1978
7.  Evaluation and Monitoring
(a) Preliminpry discussions on evaluAtion and monitoring
system requirement with DAP and other suitable
agencies                                                   May/June    1977
(b) Alternative draft agreements between DAR and DAP
(or alternatives) for production of suitable design
drawn up and submitted to Bank for review                  July         1977
(c) Ccnsultancy contract for production of evaluation
and monitoring design awarded                              Aug/Sept.   1977



ANNEX 1 9
Page 
(d) Alternative designs completed and submitted to
Bank for review                                            November    1977
(e) Start full implementation of approved mcnitoring
and evaluation system                                      January     1978
8. Mapping, Plot Design and Land Allocation
(a) Aerial photography available to DAR (BLADD)                 August       1977
(b)  Preliminary determination of priority areas for
bnae mapping established                                   August       1977
(c) Base map production of 1:5000 scale commences               September   1977
(d) Reexamination of settlement level cantrol beacons
completed by survey personnel                              September   1977
(e)  Location of control beacons onto base maps commences    October         1977
(f)  Land capability plot design work for Agusan starts         December    1977
(g) Base msps start to became available for field staff         January      1978
(h)  Land allocation teams posted to settlements
Cppiz                                                 January      1978
Bukidnon                                              February    1978
Agusan                                                March        1978
9. Agriculture
(a)  Selection of half FMT cadre complete                       July         1977
(b) FMPs commence orientation training courses                  August       1977
(c) Selection of sites area for individual FMrs comnplete    September   1977
(d)  Complete draft outline of applied research program
for calendar 1978 trials                                   September   1977
(e)  PMTs posted to field positions                             January      1978
(f)  Complete logistical arrangements for calendar
1978 trials                                                Nov/Dec.    1977
(g)  Half of gross applied research staff in field positions  January    1978
(h)  Complete trainer training                                  April        1978
(i)  Start field level training at ASC                          May          1978






1BR80 12483
__ ~  125i5O'  The boAn.lsdm A Fwp (1n p.l ,,p A.} nnt   -   -         NOVEMBER 1976
/LUZON
X                      ~~~~~~~~POSSIBLE FUTURE T<nggiA A
\  -   IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                       *           N   P '    
-8-35'                                                                                                                                                                            835 -    _
N                                             (                                                                    r,               MC    J  A
SIANBO <  ./                                                                                        MfegguN SIAN13NPROJECTto Bo h B a  M
V C 0 jPHASE Tl(BIOSHA;
<Jr                                                                                                                    A t X pSsAoN,EVCTcn A    L
SAN VICENTE
B ~     ~\5                         /               /N                                                                                                                ___U     <  -  /    GATR 
-u  W eggoans SPAOJECTROJECT ;R                                      to  Rah ,a''P( EC T
InesQ'                                                                                                                    -2 PoosdIioro   rs
AN,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RnVAP                 fsX -                                                              -(Narionel           Camponay
r~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                     35                          Caaso,aMar,           RALEC  DEEOMN   PRJC                             '-a -Rod obeIPoe
Gorre.)a, ~  ~        ~        ~        N           AGUAN   ETLEMNT  RE
rj                                                     R,z.I r  r    .    __--             OS
Bag_                                     I                       F ,siob      d  ArBas
g(>-                                                   -      Natnacpl Rod!BBo n OaIB)
POSSIBL e  PlE   LO  LI                                                                                                   oao   od
MANGEENTPRCET                   'N                                                                                      Rast  s SPO
(3100APHAl
A  71                                                          /                                                 -.  -   SettIBroBoR ArBa Boundary - /"  RUR
<4 Cauaga                  AGUS AN 2     3       4      A     A
I             I    ~~~~PoosdIrrgtonAa
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ntoa Roo une Constrerscf,on
__  1)   \                                                         ff!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/N  125S 002                        






IBRD 12484
NOVEhlBER 19761
'~~~~~~~-~~~~ ~12400'
New Mendes
0  ~~~~~~\ N      X                        -t ~~~~~~~~~~~New Eden                  Nahwo
Bagusan>; ~<o t\')r< 0   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gR 1a/1,                                            .L Roxas                          g        n     u O n       fanalsolan
\~~\/       Pudong   )       0          \                    \                          \{                     r/~
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KY BASIN 
Em  is                                                                    IRRIGAT |
Bc roca                                                                  20 ihn.
<  Vacuopao            /                :rndia
-0XALILANGAN  \           \                                   PHILIPPINE
)7   \              \              RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7'0'
\E~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ,n
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Klambupse IrgatonAra
o  e > B~~~liangalinW )N_Rvr
g~~~~~~~~KLIZ tLAi-=MNGciABondre
|   '   ' > 8   4    *  z                             V       t               gB                     G        ?   ? IR?I?A;I?N
~~ X   >0                                             \ t       c    ,     <                       fF les~~100 h
J,      {3e,>sf   ,>                 \=0 a
vO       fS eNA05 iM c>op
0t'tt    AALILNGA






122' 45' 0,   l              ~                                     \,b1,>' 50   .^                )JTuburan                               122' 55
'    UZON
Batabat                               4                     V '
t  d                                                                                                                                                                  Maoyp, Jn.. ,__*._..."              .MA_<ON|
as"''"                                                                                 00        Q        A       T       R 3?'   Nj'                         I>
a 0                                                                                                                         - Bongbongaon  <"'>
-P2 o                                                 r   - 0 '  ; ^ < / N  -  2INew Indo    be ConstY    ares
20 h. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~P0
01~~                                                                                   S /nAntoniog        /dnclRunz
_ .    ,   dr                                                                 I,                 , y                      ._                                       _.            I
/   ~ ~ )~Ta               QUARtO'"
PHILIPPINES
Lclwa-cin                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
T.  uoo  o                                                                                                                                                             CAPIZ  SETTLEMENT AREA
-                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Irrigation Areas
~~~ ~~~~  tAD~~~~~~~~~~~<CC"'-'----' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feasibility Study Areas
-11'15'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____Provincial Roads                                                                                                                      a
Barangay Roods
ton       lanot  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'Roads to be Improved
---New Road to be Constructed
-~ - --   Tracks
Agi                                     ~~~~~~~~N -'   Rivers
In                                             ,           - -               '.'"~~~~~~      ~      ~~~ 60n h."~                                                Settlement Area Boundary
4  ~~~~~~~~~~~.-Municipal Boundaries
---- Pravincrol Bouindary
10     1       2       3      4       5
O     1           2     ~     ~~~~ 4
a' ~~~~~~~- ~on Son tRt5,,I
122~~~~~~ 45'                                      /55~~~~~~~92 50'                                                      122'55                                            da



