CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1421 PH
Loan Agreement
(Second Rural Development-Land Settlement-Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 10, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1977, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Se,Llan 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "DAR" means the Borrower's Department of Agrarian
Reform;
(b) "CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit
established by DAR;
(c) "IPCC" means the Inter-Agency Project Coordinating
Committee established by the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "LOI" means the Letter of Instruction which the Borruwer
intends to issue to certain of its departments and agencies for
the implementation of parts of the Project under the direction
of DAR;


﻿- 3 -
(e) "Special Account" means the fund to be maintained in
DAR pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(f) "Project Area" means the following three settlements
established by the Borrower;
(i) Agusan del Sur, a settlement about 16,500 ha in
extent situated in the Province of Agusan del Sur
on the Island of Mindanao;
(ii) Bukidnon, a settlement about 36,000 ha in extent
situated in the Province of Bukidnon on the Island
of Mindanao; and
(iii) Capiz, a settlement about 25,000 ha in extent
situated in the Province of Capiz on the Island of
Panay.
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Central
Bank of the Philippines pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DAR and with the assistance of the IPCC and the
departments and agencies of the Borrower specified in the LOI,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for this
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction to its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall relend to
the Central Bank of the Philippines the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to credit in Category 5 of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement in a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the said Central Bank
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank and which shall include, inter alia, a term of twenty years
including four and one-half years of grace and interest at the
rate of 8.20% per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the


﻿- 7 -
purpose of the Loan and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) Without limitation or restriction to its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall establish
and maintain until the completion of the Project and under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account from
which DAR may draw without restriction to meet expenditures in
respect of the Project. The Borrower shall adjust and replenish
the amount in the Special Account at monthly intervals to a level
at least equivalent to the estimated amount of payments to be made
for goods, services and civil works required for the Project, less
the estimated amount of payments to be made directly by the Bank
to suppliers or contractors for such goods, services and civil
works during the next two months.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, until at least the completion of the Project,
(i) maintain in existence the CPMU with its present organization,
powers and responsibilities; and (ii) employ or maintain in
employment, as the case may be, the following suitably qualified
and experienced staff: (A) in CPMU, a Project manager, a financial
controller and a chief planning economist, and (B) in each of the
settlements included in the Project, a settlement area manager.


﻿-8-
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on the qualifications and experience of the candidates
before making an appointment to any of the said positions.
Section 3.03. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause DAR to furnish to the Bank within thirty days
of the end of each quarter, commencing with the quarter ending
September 30, 1977, a report, in a form acceptable to the Bank, on
the progress being made in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.04. In order to assist DAR in carrying out Part A
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and subject to the provisions of Section 6.01 (c)
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ such consultants with
respect to Parts A (i) through A (iii) not later than May 31,
1978, and with respect to Part A (iv), not later than November 30,
1977.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(i) its annual work plans and budgets for the carrying out of the
Project, in sufficient time for these to be reviewed by the Bank
prior to their final approval as part of the Borrower's budget; and
(ii) promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain consolidated records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, in carrying out Parts
B (i), (ii) of the Project, ensure that the final engineering
designs of works to be undertaken under such Parts of the Project,
and the arrangements for implementing such works for operating and
maintaining them and, in the case of irrigation works, arrangements
for cost recovery, are all agreed to by the Bank before starting
construction on such works.
(b) In carrying out Part B (iv) of the Project, the Borrower
shall obtain the Bank's approval of the detailed designs of the
erosion control works to be undertaken under such Part B (iv) and
the specifications of the equipment to be procured by the Borrower
for this purpose before purchasing such equipment.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1977, or such other date as the Bank shall agree: (i) take all
such action as shall be necessary to implement revised procedures
and guidelines, that are mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank, for land allocation and associated survey work by DAR in
the Project Area; and (ii) establish Land Committees in the
Project Area.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause DAR, with the
assistance of agricultural engineering, evaluation and other
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank (i) to
prepare by December 31, 1980, a ten year settlement areas action
program; and (ii) to complete by December 31, 1979, feasibility
studies for accelerating the development of existing settlement
areas and for establishing new settlement areas and furnish by
the said date such studies to the Bank for its comments.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall establish in DAR, and staff
and maintain, a monitoring and evaluation system which will, inter
alia, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, whenever this is necessary,
make satisfactory arrangements to assist in relocating any
residents in the Project Area who are required to move as a result
of the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists or any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and
at no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.


﻿- 13 -
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the
foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on the
assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to
the extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the
laws in force in its territories to make this undertaking
effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DAR (i) to maintain
separate accounts and financial statements adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations in respect of the Project; and (ii) to
ensure that similar separate accounts are maintained by the
departments and agencies of the Borrower specified in the LOI.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DAR to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 14 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
ensure that a rural bank is established and fully operational in
Capiz not later than June 30, 1979.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities included in Part B of the Project to be operated and
maintained in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering
and financial policies and practices, and shall make available,
or cause to be made available, sufficient funds for such purposes.
(b) Without limitation on its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower undertakes to:
(i) cause an Irrigator Service Association to be
established among the beneficiaries of each
irrigation work included in the Project Area
not later than the beginning of operations of
such work;
(ii) cause each such Association to operate and
maintain such irrigation work, and to levy
and collect from its members such dues, and
to obtain from its members such labor, as
shall be required for the purpose; and


﻿- 15 -
(iii) levy and collect from such beneficiaries such
charges as shall be sufficient to provide for the
recovery within a reasonable period, on reasonable
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a
portion of the monies invested in the said
irrigation works, without impairing the users
incentives and capacity to pay.
(c) The Borrower shall consult with the Bank annually, on the
adequacy of such operation and maintenance and of such dues and
charges.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall review the policies and
procedures governing DAR's Fund for Direct Assistance to settlers
in the Project Area and consult with the Bank on the results
of such review not later than June 30, 1978, or such other date as
the Bank shall agree, with a view to making such direct assistance
consistent with the credit policies of rural banks and cooperative
rural banks operating in the Project Area. The Borrower shall
thereafter monitor the operation of the said Fund in the Project
Area and furnish to the Bank for its comments the results of such
review not later than December 31 in each of the years 1979
through 1981.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Letter of Instruction
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a manner as to materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project or the carrying out of the Borrower's
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the LOI has been issued and has become effective;
(b) that the Special Account has been established;
(c) that the consultant required to provide management
support to the CPMU has been employed pursuant to Section 3.04 of
this Agreement; and
(d) that a settlement area manager has been employed for
each of the settlement areas included in the Project Area.
Section 6.02. The date September 12, 1977, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment, vehicles         2,200,000
and spare parts:
(a) directly im-                              100% of foreign
ported                                   expenditures
(b) locally manu-                             100% of local
factured                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally                                   65%
procured
(2) Civil works
(a) buildings                900,000          45%
(b) other civil            5,700,000          45%
works
(3) Consultants' ser-             700,000           100% of foreign
vices and Overseas                             expenditures or
Training                                       65%
(4) Salaries of Project         1,900,000          45%
Personnel and other
operating expenses


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Term credit                    900,000         60% of amounts
disbursed by
Central Bank
(6) Unallocated                  2,700,000
TOTAL       15,000,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments
made under Category (5) in paragraph (i) of this Schedule unless


﻿- 23 -
evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to
the Bank that: (i) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Central Bank of the
Philippines; and (ii) that the rural banks to which the proceeds
of the Loan are to be made available by the Central Bank meet the
Central Bank eligibility criteria.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿-24 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Program support to improve the design and implementation
of the Borrower's countrywide settlement program, which will
include:
(i) Planning and technical studies;
(ii) The provision of management support, staff training and
communication and transportation facilities to the CPMU
and of staff training to DAR;
(iii) Provision of training for the staff of the agricultural
service centers; and
(iv) Evaluation and monitoring studies in the Project Area.
Part B:   The provision of infrastructure development,
agricultural and other services including transportation facilities
in the Project Area which will include:
(i) Road construction and improvement;
(ii)  Irrigation and drainage;
(iii) Forestry development;
(iv) Other land development;
('r) Health facilities, including family planning and nutrition,
and water supply;
(vi)  Service buildings and facilities;


﻿- 26 -
(vii) Construction of an Agricultural Service Center in each
of the three settlements included in the Project Area
to provide agricultural extension, farmer training,
adaptive research and other services;
(viii) The provision of marketing, cooperative development and
credit services to settlers.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1982.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1982
through   February 1, 1997                    485,000
On August 1, 1997                                  450,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              8.20%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines) on the basis of international competitive
bidding, as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth or referred to in
Part A. 1 of this Schedule:
(i) civil works may be carried out either (A) by the
Borrower under force account, or (B) by contracts
awarded under the Borrower's procedures or
competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate
cost of civil works carried out by force account
shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank,
exceed 40% of the total cost of all civil works in
the Project;


﻿- 30 -
(ii) items of equipment, materials and vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$20,000 may be awarded on a competitive basis under
the Borrower's normal procurement procedures
without international competitive bidding;
(iii) any item of such equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $10,000 may be
purchased at a reasonable price in accordance with
the Borrower's usual procedures, provided, that the
aggregate expenditure for such items shall not
exceed the equivalent of $300,000; and
(iv) equipment and materials bought by beneficiaries
under the credit component of the Project may be
purchased through normal commercial channels.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight


﻿- 31 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use of installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of the Philippines may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Republic of the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: All other bids offering goods
manufactured in the Republic of the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 32 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 33 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and all contracts
for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$125,000 or more:
(a) Review of prequalification. If bidders are required
to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before qualification is
invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
(i) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description


﻿-34-
of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(iii) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.


﻿- 35 -
(iv) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


