Documeut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 10416
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2157-TUN)
MARCH 17, 1992
MICROFICHE Copy
RePorot No. 10416-TUP  Tpe: (PCR)
JON~ES, W. / X31756 / ~9 5 7/ OiEDDI~
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BaDk authorization.



PROJECT GOMPLETION REPORT
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2157-MU)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dinar (TD)
Appraisal Year, average       US$ - TD 0.59
Implementation average        USS - TD 0.80
Completion year, average      US$ - TD 0.88
ABBREVIATIONS
BNT         -           National Bank of Tunisia
CRDA        -           Regional Agricultural Development Commission
CTV         -           Territorial Extension Unit
DCOMVPI                 Directorate for Coordinating Development Agencies of
Irrigation Perimeters
DEGTH       -           Directorate for Hydraulic Studies and Major Works
DGPDIA      -           Directorate for Planning, Development and Agricultural
Investments
MOA         -           Ministry of Agriculture
OMIVAN                  Nebhana Irrigation Development Agency
OMVVM       -           Medjerda Valley Development Agency
PPI                     Public Irrigation Perimeters
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONL
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dirctoq-Gerwal
Opuraltm Evakaatkm
March 17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Tunisia
Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project
(Loan 2157-TUN)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Medjerda/Nebhana
Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2157-TUN)   prepared by the
former Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.  No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachmfent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
MEDJERDA/NEMHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2157-TUN)
Table of Contents
Page No
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    i
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     Project Identitv   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .
B.     Project Background         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
C.     Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
D.     Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . 3
E.     Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
F.     Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
G.     Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
H.     Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
I.     Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
J.     Bank/Borrower Relations    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
K.     Consulting Services    . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
L.     Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     Comments on the Medjerda Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
B.    Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I  . . . . . . . .  16
C.    Evaluation of Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
D.    Evaluation of OMVVM Performance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
E.    Relations between the Bank and the Agency    . . . . . . . . .  18
F.    Comments on the Nebhana Component    . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
G.     Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I   . . . . . . . .  19
H.     Evaluation of Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
I.     Evaluation of Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
2.     Project Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
3.     Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
4.     Project Implementation Chart   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                                     Page No
5.     Project Costs and Financing    . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . .  25
6.     Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   26
7.     Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
8.     Economic Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
9.     Financial Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
10.    Cropping Patterns and Intensity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
11.    Status of Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
12.   Use of Bank Resources    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
13.   Missions     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    34
ORGANIZATION CHART   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
MAPS 1 AND 2  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 and 37
ANNEXES
Annex 1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
Annex 2
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Annex 3
Seasonal Rainfall 1981-1989 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
Annex 4
Comments from a Consulting Firm ................. .  44



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2157-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Medjerda/Nebhana
Irrigation Development Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 2157-TUN in the amount
of US$22.0 million was approved on May 25, 1982. The loan was reduced to US$15.3
million following the cancellation, due to the favorable exchange rate of the
dollar, of US$5.0 million in .9A6 and US$1.7 million in 1988. The Loan closed
on June 30, 1989 and an addi, ..nal cancellation of US$0.839 million was made at
that time. The last disbu-.x- nt took place on January 24, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program, the Agricalture Operations Division of the former Europe, Middle East
and North Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Borrower (Part II).  Comments from a consulting firm are attached as
Annex 4.
Preparation of this PCR was started following a mission to Tunisia
in February 1990, and is based mainly on the project completion reports prepared
by the two Irrigation Development Agencies responsible for project execution.
The PCR is also based on the documents prepared by the Bank, i.e., the Staff
Appraisal Report No. 3807-TUN dated April 20,  1982, the Loan and Proje;t
Agreements dated June 8, 1982, ani the eight supervision reports. Correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower was not utilized



11ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISI
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION D)EVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2157-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The main objective of the project was to incr-~- -  .gricultural
production by rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure, strengthening extension
acti-vities and creating new marketing facilities.   In order to attain this
objective, the Project, has for both irrigation perimeters:
-     partially rehabilitated irrigation anddrainage infrastructures
(improvement of existing irrigation network over about 500 ha
in Medjerda and 500 ha drainage in Nebhana);
-     improved a total of 200 km of farm access roads;
-     constructed four fruit and vegetable processing centers;
-     strengthened the extension services, particularly those which
support adoption of improved irrigation techniques;
-     provided training; and
-     provided technical assistance by specialized consultants.
In the Medjerei, the project has, in addition, financed irrigation
equipment for new areas totalling 2,300 ha and construction of four milk
collection centers.   In the Nebhana, the prrject has also assisted in the
rehabilitation of three pumping stations and the construction of a second
pipeline of the main distribution system over 16 km.
Imalementation Experience
In spite of a slow start-up due to lack of local funds, the project
was successful in meeting its physical targets; the quiality of works and
equipment was generally good.   Except  for minor adjustments,  all project
activities we,  implemented according to appraisal estimates.
The project became operational in January 1983, and works were
carried out over a four-year period, from 1984 to 1987. Final works were carried
out in 1988 and during part of 1989. In addition to the lack cf funds, three
unforeseen factors had an impact on project execution: difficulty in



4v -
procuring concrete trapezoidal canals, frequent unavailability of farm land for
levelling, and lack of interest of farmers in on-farm modern irrigation systems.
Results
Overall, the agricultural production objectives were not fully
reached.   There was not a significant increase in production of open field
vegetable crops, cereals, forage and industrial crops. Tree crops, on the other
hand, dramatically improved, by almost doubling yields and areas under
cultivation.    In Nebhana,  greenhouse vegetable  production also  increased
considerably, even though cropped areas remained modest. Agricultural production
prices clearly improved, leading to stimulating financial results at faria level:
family labor wages never fell below TD 11 man/day (year 5), which represents a
40 percent increase compared to year 0, and three times seasonal labor wages.
The reduction of the investment program led to an economic rate of return (ERR)
of 29 percent for the Medjerda component (38 percent at appraisal) and of
28 percent for the Nebhana component (nearly 10 percent higher than the
20 percent value established at appraisal).   The ERR values reached in the
context of the project remain favorable in view of lower expenditures and a small
overall improvement in prices and agricultural production yields in real terms,
which minimized the negative impact of input price increases. Most of the fruit
and vegetable processing centers are now operational, although their management
has not yet been definitely established. Medjerda milk colleccion centers are
also operational and farmers participate in the O&M cost.
Extension efforts made are encouraging, particularly in the Medjerda
perimeter, with regard to training of extension agents and on-farm extension
activities.  Extension agents have been almost completely discharged of their
routine management activities in order to fully devote their time to farmers'
training.
Sustainability
The positive effects of the project can only be sustained through
Government efforts and additional investments.  Activities of the project which
should be pursued are in the areas of infrastructure rehabilitation in the old
irrigation sectors of the Medjerda perimeter, on-farm irrigation improvement by
promotion of land-levelling and on-farm modern irrigation systems, extension
and marketing.
In the context of the Irrigation Management Improvement Project (Loan
2753-TUN), additional funding has been earmarked for preventive maintenance of
irrigation infrastructure. However, the transfer of all irrigation activities
to the CRDAs, particularly operation and maintenance of irrigation systems, for
which they were not previously responsible, needs to be closely monitored in
order not to upset the progress which the former Government Agencies have
initiated in implementing that project.
Lessons Learned
The major lessons to be learned from Bank and Borrower joint
activities are:



- v
during identification of activities related to rehabilitation
of old irrigation perimeters, a detailed economic and technical
study must be carried out, on which basis it would be decided
either to perform limited ad-hoc rehabilitation works or embark
on a full-scale rehabilitation program by constructing new
networks, for example, thereby considerably extending the
perimeter's life (paras. 16 and 52);
all accompanying measures linked to project success should be
identified at project preparation.   In the case of this
project, the lack of availability of land for levelling and
farmers' access to modern irrigation systems, have constituted
foreseeable limiting factors.  The same is true for lack of
familiarization of the executing agencies with Bank procurement
guideline (paras. 20 and 52);
when an important institutional change results in the transfer
of management and maintenance responsibilities of the project
to organizations (CRDAs) not referred to in the Loan Agreement,
the Bank should discuss with the Borrower the conditions of
this transfer in order to ensure that an acceptable level of
net benefits accrues throughout the economic life of the
project (para. 41);
land tenure issue has been satisfactorily addressed in the
irrigated areas under the project (para. 39), but the issue
remains  in many other areas in Tunisia.   Because of the
importance of land tenure in motivating the farmers and
increasing agricultural yields, the issue of land tenure should
be discussed with the Government with a view to adapting
countrywide regulations.
the decision to centralize regional agricultural activities
under the CRDAs makes a lot of sense in terms of organization
and decision making process.   However,  their success will
depend on their ability to recruit competent staff and on
availability of funds (para. 41).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNSIII
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2157-TUN)
PART I: PRQJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Progect Identity
Name                     Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project
Loan Number              2157-TUN
RVP Unit                 EMENA Region
Country                  Tunisia
Sector                   Agriculture
Subsector                Irrigation
B.    Proiect Background
1.          A primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-81) was to achieve self-
sufficiency in food.  This goal was not achieved since Tunisia's higher per
capita income growth and the shift of tastes to higher value crops created a
growth of demand in food, diverting exports to local consumption and increasing
imports.
2.          The overall objective for agriculture of the Sixth Plan (1982-86)
continued to be progress  towards self-sufficiency in food.   Food imports
(especially cereals) would be compensated by increasing exports, particularly
in the labor intensive subsectors, such as livestock and fruit tree plantations.
3.          The irrigated sector contributed significantly to the rapid growth
of Tunisian agriculture during the 1970s. In 1980, it accounted for about
25 percent of the country's total agricultural GDP. However, the subsector's
contribution could have been higher if more intensive use had been made of the
irrigable areas. The Government's objectives during the Sixth Development Plan
for this sector were: extension of irrigable areas and intensification of water
utilization and crop production on existing irrigable areas. About 38 percent
(versus 43 percent in 1977-81) of total planned investments in agriculture during
the Sixth Plan period would be allocated to irrigation.
4.          Among the loans provided since 1967 by the Bank to Tunisia for
agricultural development, seven of these are directly related to projects in the
irrigation subsector and three partially related, i.e. Technical Assistance,
ASAL I and Rural Roads.   Table 1 lists projects related to the irrigation
subsector.
5.          The Project would (a) help achieve the Government's goal of self-
sufficiency through increased production in the Medjerda and Nebhana irrigation
perimeters, and (b) increase the efficiency of Government investments by
improving the mobilization and utilization of existing water resources in both
areas.



6.          Agricultural development during the Sixth Plan would also aim at
increasing rural emplovment (which was providing 35 percent of tocal employment
in the early 1980s against 50 percent in 1972) and agricultural revenues. The
use of new technologies, mainly high yielding varieties, fertilizers and chemical
weed control, as well as priority investments for irrigation infrastructt're and
farm machinery, would constitute the major channels to promote agricultural
production, particularly in fruit tree plantation and early vegetable crops which
represented the best export prospects.
7.          The cultivable area of Tunisia covers 5.2 million ha, of which
235,000 ha (4 percent) are equipped with irrigation. The potentially irrigable
land does not exceed 250,'00 ha due to the limited water resources. The area
equipped with irrigation v- rs about 110,000 ha of public irrigation perimeters
(PPI) and 125,000 ha of .  ,- e irrigation consisting of small irrigation units
supplied by surface  or deep wells.   The  irrigation  intensitv  (irrigated
area/equipped area) is about 65 percent in the public irrigation perimeters and
85 percent in the private irrigation perimeters.
8.          The project is concerned with irrigation development in two areas
comprising 35,600 ha, i.e. 30,000 ha in the Lower Medjerda Valley and 5,600 ha
in the Nebhana perimeter.
9.          Although results have not fully met appraisal expectations,  the
project has positively contributed to the overall development objectives of the
agricultural sector.
C.    Prolect Obiectives and Description l
10.         The  objectives  of  the  Project  were  to  increase  agricultural
production, namely seasonal and off-season vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial
crons, livestock and milk in the irrigation perimeters of the Lower Medjerda
Valley and Nebhana.
11.         In the Medierda, the Project accomplished the following:
(a)   equipped with tertiary and quaternary irrigation networks the
remaining 2,330 ha of private lands not equipped in previous
projects;
(b)   completed the distribution network over about 500 ha,  in
several small areas where the original equipment was
insufficient;
(c)   improved 104 km of farm access roads;
(d)   provided fruit and vegetable cold storage centers at El Bathan
and Mornag, four milk collection centers (Sidi Thabet, Zhana,
Manouba and Mornag) and a fruit and vegetable processing center
(in the El Bathan center);
Annez 1 gives a full description of the project components in accordance with the Loan Agreement.



.3
(e)   provided  agricultural  equipmant,  stores  and  sheds  for
agricultural equipment, inputs for the OMVVM and houses for
the extension staff;
(f)   improved extension services of the OM%VM and estabi.ished a
training center;
(g)   provided fellowships and training.
12.         In the Nebhana, the project was to make full use of limited water
resources and improve water management and distribution in conjunction with the
improvement of extension services and provision of a marketing structure.
Specific investments have covered:
(a)   pumping stations at Ain Kebrite,  Bled Sisseb and Ain Bou
Mourra;
(b)   increasing the capacity of the main pipeline over 16 km;
(c)   water distribution and waterflow control equipment;
rd)   drainage improvement on about 400 ha at Ain Bou Mourra in the
Sbikha perimeter;
(e)   improvement of some 96 km of farm access roads and related
structures;
(f)   the construction of a fruit and vegetable processing station
equipped with cold storage at Sidi Bou Ali and the construction
of a simple grading and packing station for fruit in Sbikha;
(g)   improvement of OMIVAN extension services;
(h)   technical assistance, training and frc -wships for OMIVAN.
13.         The Project has benefitted about 3,750 farmers in the Medjerda (in
line with appraisal estimates), and 4,650 in Nebhana (versus 4,000 estimated at
appraisal).
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
14.         The proiect was designed to continue the following activities which
were started for both the Medjerda and Nebhana areas under the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (1976-80):
-     complete the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructures;
-     continue  on-farm  development  in  order  to  economize  on
irrigation water;
-     establish efficient extension services particularly oriented
toward on-farm irrigation techniques;



-4-
establish a marketing structure to help improve producers'
revenues while avoiding the middleman.
15.         The project was thus clearly designed with well integrated components
and the expected results were in accordance with Tunisia's overall objectives
for agricultural development.
16.         Altnough the Medjerda component of the Project was well prepared by
FAO/CP, the limited approach taken in the area of L.ehabilitation of the
irrigation network with concrete  flumes  is regrettable.    The  full-scale
rehabilitation of old, seriously dzmaged, canal networks (5 to 10,000 ha would
have been a realistic objective) should have been envisaged instead of limited
ad-hoc improvements over 500 ha only. From a strictly technical point of view,
it would be useful if precast trapezoidal concrete canals were definitely banned
in the future. Instead, centrifugal, semi-circular canals on precast supports
could be used as they have considerable advantages. They last longer, are shock
resistant and easy to produce.
17.         The  two  Irrigation  Development  Agencies  (OMVVM  and  OMIVAN)
responsible for project execution were able to successfully carry out the project
and to manage and maintain the infrastructures following project completion.
They contributed to a large extent to the successful implementation of the
project by accepting without any major difficulty the institutional strengthening
measures foreseen by the project. The transfer of responsibilities from these
Agencies to the CRDAs could have repercussions in the future on the operation
and maintenance of the irrigation perimeters (para. 41).
E.    Prolect Implementation
18.         The Loan became effective in January 1983.  Irrigation works were
d- Ilayed by 18 to 24 months in the Medjerda, and by 6 to 18 months in the Nebhana.
These delays were mainly caused by the inadequacy of the preliminary designs
which required further detailed studies, budget constraints, and cumbersome
administrative procedures, particularly those related to procurement through
international bidding.
19.         Insufficient Tunisian counterpart funds were allocated for the
Medjerda component in 1983 and 1584.   This delayed the start-up of that
component. The investment budget allocated for that subproject was adequate from
1985 onwards. However, there was a problem for both subprojects of lack of funds
to pay incremental recurrent costs and proper monitoring of recurrent
expenditures. Lack of recurrent funds in Tunisia and the need to separate the
recurrent from the investment budget has been studied in depth by the recent
Agriculturel Expenditure Review.
20.         Procurement was delayed because of the lack of familiarity of our
Tunisian counterparts at the time with the Bank's procurement procedures and by
the cumbersome administrative procedures of the Commission des Marches who was
also not well informed of the Bank's procurement requirements. The situation
has now improved.



-5-
21.         On the whole, the project was implemented according to initial plans;
the quality of works and equipment was generally satisfactory and even excellent
for some components.
22.         The main modifications to the initial program are in fact minor
adjustments which concern:
(a)   in the Medierda:  equipping of irrigation networks:  El Bathan
(224 ha) use of low pressure pipes instoad of concrete flumes
initially foreseen; 160 ha land levelling (instead of 960 ha),
13 km drains (instead of 33 km), and 360 ha on-farm drainage
(instead of 660 ha);   irrigation network improvements were
extended to 800 ha (instead of 500 ha as foreseen);   farm
access road improvements were extended to 104,8 km (instead
of 102,35 km as foreseen);   construction of three milk
collection centers (instead of four); provision of 27 tractors
(instead of 45); construction of 22 buildings and houses and
rehabilitation of eight existing ones (instead of 40);
(b)   in the Nebhana:   the Oued Aich pumping station was not
established as foreseen;    construction of  four concrete
reservoirs for daily storage with a total capacity of
11,600  m3  (instead  of  14,600  m3 distributed  among  11
reservoirs); construction of a second main pipeline over
11 km (instead of 16 km); the recharging of the Old Teboubba
aquifer was not done because of lack of water; improvement
of 80 km of farm access roads (instead of 96 km); construction
of a vegetable processing center at Sidi Bou Ali instead of
Sahline; uprooting of olive trees on 55 ha (instead of land
clearing on 1,400 ha); 460 ha land-levelling (instead of
600 ha).
23.         Project Costs.  At appraisal in 1982, the total project cost was
estimated at TD 19.91 million (US$39.82 million), excluding the "Agricultural
Credit" and the "Incremental Operational Expenses" components.  After project
implementation, without major changes in the compcnents foreseen in the project,
the actual costs were TD 19.51 million (US$23.38 million)', i.e., a saving of
2 percent in dinars and 42 percent in dollars. In view of the favorable exchange
rate, $5.0 million was cancelled in 1986 and $1.7 million in 1988 (Table 5 A).
24.         About 80 percent of project expenditures financed contracts for
works, goods and services. Between 1983 and 1987, 61 contracts totalling
TD 15.16 million were managed by the two Agencies. 2
25.         Despite initial delays, most of the works were completed by the end
of 1987 as foreseen at appraisal. The major delays were caused, first, in the
Medjerda, by the need to make minor adjustments following completion of the new
irrigation networks in mid-1988, and secondly, in Nebhana, by final works
a*t current prices and using the average yearly dollat/dinar exchange rate (wht'ch went from 0.59 D/S
in 1982 to 0.95 0/$ in 1989).
2 Aznez 2 indicates contracts by type of bidding and invoestment category.



- 6 -
undertaken on pumping stations, storage reservoirs and the Sidi Bou Ali
processing center, which were not completed until 1989 (Table 4).
26.         Project implementation was affected by four main factors:
-     lack of local funds:  local funds for the start-up of project
activities were not available in sufficient quantity during
the first y,ar of the project, despite Government's commitment
under the Loan Agreement to allocate these funds;
-     Drovision of traRezoidal canals for the Medierda:  Djebel Oust
Industries had to reopen the old construction olant for
trapezoidal canals, which resulted in an 18 month deiay in the
start-up of works;
-     land-levelline:  levelling works did not progress as foreseen.
The main constraint was due to the fact that land-levelling
can only take place during the short periods between two crop
seasons  or on the scarce  fallow  lands.   Although land-
levelling is crucial for efficient irrigation, it is impossible
to force the farmer to do it.  Procedures for undertaking
levelling operations had been developed under an FAO project
(UTFN/TUN/019/TUN:    Training  and  Extension  for  Improved
Irrigation Techniques; 1986 to 1988) through the use of a
towed levelling blade provided with a Laser beam system for
automatic control. Regular levelling is important to maximize
the efficiency of surface irrigation.  In Medjerda, farmers
were already in debt because of their purchases (through
credit) of hydraulic equipment (sprinklers) and were not
financially prepared to pay for costly levelling equipment.
In conclusion, the Government should become more involved in
land-levelling, irrigation techniques and in implementing a
water savings policy.  Extension efforts should increase co
obtain farmers' participation in these programs.   Farmers'
access to agricultural credit needs to be improved (this is
being addressed under the BNA IV project).   Paragraph 47
elaborates on these subjects).
-     siltation of Nebhana distribution system:   following the
accidental siltation of the pipe distribution network
(para. 55), OMIVAN had to focus its efforts on the cleaning
out of the pipe distribution system in the irrigation
perimeter;  therefore, during three to four months, project
implementation was not monitored as closely as usual.
F.    Project Results
27.         Agricultural Develogment.   Overall,  the agricultural production
objectives of the project, which had been set at a rather ambitious level during
appraisal, were not reached, mainly because of difficulties Tunisia has been
having with mArketing and export of early vegetables as well as lengthy delays
in the establishment of new extension structures foreseen by the project. One



-7-
of the deficiencies in the Tunisia agricultural marketing system identified by
the Tunisia Small Farmers Study was the weakness of the cooperative marketing
network and interference of Government activities in the marketing, processing
and pricing areas. In order to increase the efficiency of agricultural marketing
in Tunisia, the study recommends that the Government increase its role in the
policy arena by promoting private sector activities and developing and
implementing marketing rules and regulations.   Under  the Medjerda/Nebhana
project, it was expected that the cooperatives/private sector would manage the
facilities provided by the Project (milk collection centers, cold storaga and
processing stations). However, at project completion, only one cooperative was
managing the processing center in Sbikha; all other facilities were, until
project completion, managed by the Agencies/CRDAs. Marketing efficiency should
improve with the transfer to the private sector of the management of the centers.
The privatization of collection and distribution activities is being addressed
under ASAL-II.   To a lesser extent, lack of water in 1985 and 1987 and the
liuited development of some techniques (land levelling in Medjerda, on-farm
improved irrigation systems  in Nebhana)  have also hampered development of
agricultural production. Only tree crop production increased dramatically under
the project, beyond appraisal expectations;  in both perimeters, areas planted
with trees more than doubled, and yields in Medjerda increased two-fold.  Open
field vegetable crops more or less stagnated because of marketing difficulties;
on the other hand, greenhouse vegetable production in Nebhana has taken off well,
albeit on a small scale. The area usually cultivated with rainfed cereals in
the Medjerda and provided with supplemental water in the spring has expanded
although yields have decreased slightly. Land levelling efforts have clearly
not yet given the expected results. Forage crops in Medjerda have stagnated and
industrial crops (mainly sugar beet) made some progress over a two to three year
period, but were practically abandoned later because of the distance to the sugar
plant (B6ja).
A. Medierda Perimetar
28.         Agricultural Production.  Within the Medjerda perimeter which covers
about 30,000 ha, the cultivated area increased from 23,350 ha at the beginning
of the project (1982) to 27,400 ha at the end of the project. Cropping patterns
have evolved as follows: vegetable crops occupied 42 percent of the cultivated
area in 1982 and 33 percent in 1989; cereals went from 21 percent to 24 percent,
forage from 29 percent to 27 percenit and tree plantations from 8 percent to
16 percent. The following should be noted in particular:
-     an increase in fruit and vegetable yields from 14 to
16 t/ha;
-     a dramatic increase in fruit tree yields from 3.4 to
6.7 t/ha, stemming from the conjunction of better on-farm
water use, young orchards reaching full development, the impact
of extension campaigns, and improved effectiveness of pest and
disease control products;
-     a decrease in cereal yields from 1.3 to 1.1 t/ha, which is not
significant because of its link to climatic conditions;
irrigation generally takes place only during periods of drought
and is inefficient.



- 8 -
29.         1xtension.   Until 1988, the relative stagnation of agricultural
development was mainly due to the lack of efficiency of agricultural extension
agents who were often too much involved in routine management tasks.  On th'
basis of a reorganization of extension structures and a detailed program of
activities established by a Bank consultant, remarkable progress was achieved
in less than two years: the extension agents' training program was completed,
extension agents were discharged from tasks not linked directly to their
function, and programs of intensive visits to farmers were established.
Moreover, the irrigation techniques improvement unit, created in 1984, and which
was supported by UNDP/FAO in the context of the Bank financed Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, has considerably increased its activities;  it is now
supervised by three engineers and one technical agent.
30.         Fruit and Vegetable Processing Centers and Milk Collection Centers.
The use of two processing centers at El Bathan and Mornag is encouraging, as the
quantities handled in these centers (5-6,000 t/year) have tripled in three years
and their revenues largely exceed their operating and maintenance costs. The
same applies to the three milk collection centers at El Bathan, Lezdine and Sidi
Thabet which handle 21,000 liters of milk per day.
31.         Mechanized Units.  Four mechanized units have been established in
the Djedaida,  Chouigui,  Cherchef and Utique sectors of the Medjerda.   In
addition, the project has improved three units at El Habibia, Lezdine and El
Mansoura. The units are equipped with 27 tractors and a wide range of tools.
Responsibility for the management of these units will be transferred from OMVVM
to the CRDA under conditions which have not yet been defined.
32.         Aaricultural Credit.  Farmers have benefitted from credit lines of
BNT (now called BNA) for the purchase of agricultural and irrigation equipment,
fruit tree seedlings and livestock.  BNT and OMVVM have also provided short-
term seasonal credit.
33.         Farm Incomes.  The project had a major impact on the small farms
(average 1,1 ha); in the "new area", farm incomes increased from TD 1,100 in year
zero (without project) to TD 3,100 in year five (with project), while in the
"pre-project area" these incomes increased from TD 2,900 (year zero) to TD 4,400
(year five). Wages for family labor increased from TD 8 to TD 11-12 per work
day. Annual net income as well as wages for family labor are detailed in
Table 6 C (in constant 1989 prices). Table 6 C shows that wages of family labor
in Medjerda farms tended to increase according to the size of the farm model,
even when a reduction in net income per ha was taken into account.  Cropping
patterns of the various farm models are shown in Table 6 D which indicates that
the cropping intensity is equal or superior to 100 percent for farm models
smaller than 5,50 ha; for the others, cropping intensity was lower. All farm
models, did, however, benefit from higher cropping intensities starting from
year 0. The average cropping intensity reached 94 percent in year five.
B. Nebhana Perimeter
34.         Agricultural Production. In the Nebhana perimeter which covers about
5,000 ha, the cultivated area increased from 3,990 ha in 1982 to 4,250 ha in
1989. The area planted with trees increased from 790 to 1,600 ha (actual yields
of about 5.2 t/ha). The area devoted to open-field vegetable crops tended tc



-9-
of 17.7 to 13.3 t/ha, including those of intercropped vegetables. On the other
hand, yields of greenhouse vegetables increased from 38 to 56 t/ha with area
under production only going from 230 to 310 ha.
35.         Extension.   Even though some good results have been obtained,
particularly by discharging extension agents from routine management tasks, many
improvements still remain to be made in this field. In terms of organization,
higher numbers of extension agents are needed in the field and an extension
coordinator must be recruited. Training of extension agents and field visits
for technical discussions and demonstrations could also be considerably
increased.
36.         Processing Centers.  A 1,000 t cold storage facility and a processing
center were created at Sidi Bou Ali (instead of Sahline) for fruit and
vegetables. A small fruit grading unit was established at Sbikha. The Sbikha
Service Cooperative (see para. 27) has been responsible since 1988 for the
management and maintenance of this center.   For the Sidi Ben Ali Center, a
management agreement between the CRDA of Sousse and a service cooperative is
currently being negotiated.
37.         Farm Incomes.  Two farm models were identified in the Nebhana sub-
project area, in conformity with the analysis done in the Staff Appraisal Report
of 1981. The financial analysis shows that the nec income for a 1 ha farm in
the coastal area, specializing in vegetable crops, increases from TD 6,500 in
year zero (without project) to TD 8,400 in year five (with project); the net
income for a 3 ha farm specializing in tree crops also increases from TD 6,700
in yeet zero (without project) to TD 9,100 in year five (with project). Wages
for family labor would increase from TD 22 per work day without project to
TD 29 with project (year five) in the coastal perimeter area, while in the fruit
growing area (inland), the wages for family labor would increase from TD 16 to
TD 22 per work day. Levels of yearly net income as well as wages for family
labor are detailed in Table 6 C (in constant 1989 prices).  Table 6 C shows that
there is no relation between labor wages and the farm model size; this is also
reflected in the net income per ha which is higher for the 1 ha than for the
3 ha farm due to intensive production of vegetable crops (partially under
greenhous.s). Cropping intensities increased in the Nebhana sub-project area
as they had in the Medjerda sub-project.   Due to the production of vegetable
crops in the coastal perimeters, the overall cropping intensity in Nebhana
reached 112X in year 5 (Table 6D).
38.         Agricultural Credit.  Farmers benefitted from credit lines available
from BNT for the purchase of on-farm modern irrigation systems (mainly PVC pipes
for on-farm water distribution), and fruit tree plantations.
39.         Other Activities.  The project also assisted in the development of
a nursery, installation of windbreaks on 1,600 ha, purchase of four disinfection
units for greenhouses, land consolidation of 1,983 ha in accordance with the
agrarian reform law, of which 400 ha have been levelled and 55 ha cleared of old
olive trees.



- 10 -
G.    Project SustainabilitX
40.         Sustainability of the project is linked to institutional, technical
and economic factors which must be closely monitored in order to reinforce the
positive results already obtained. Apart from the Bank's financial intervention,
special efforts must now be made by the Government to optimize investment
returns.
41.         Organization.  In March 1989, the Government of Tunisia decided to
reorganize all activities of the Ministry of Agriculture by end-1989.   The
responsibilities of the Agricultural Development Agencies were taken over by the
existing Agricultural Development Commissariats (CRDA) in each governorate. The
CRDAs would be in charge of the agricultural development of their respective
governorate. The new structure is now in place. Changes in financial management
and accounting techniques (implying cost recovery and a review of commercial
activities) would need to be introduced to reflect the specific requirements of
these activities within the context of the CRDA public accounting systems. This
would have an impact on the Irrigation Management Improvement Project and would
be followed closely by the Bank. A UNDP Technical Assistance Training Project
would also help build up the planning capacity at the regional level.   The
activities of the ex-Development Agency of Medjerda (OMVVM) are now being carried
out by six CRDAs, while those of the ex-Development Agency of Nebhana (OMIVAN)
have been taken over by five CRDAs. Although it is too early to assess all the
consequences of this reorganization, measures need to be taken to ensure
efficiency, particularly in management and maintenance of irrigation and
marketing infrastructures.   There is the risk that the human and physical
resources which had been concentrated within the Agencies may be spread too
thinly among the CRDAs, preventing them from devoting priority attention to
irrigation as the Agencies had done previously. Local authorities will also have
more influence on the selection of priority action programs which may lead to
possible differences within the various CRDAs.   Finally,  the impact of the
reorganization on the motivation of certain staff of the ex-Agencies should not
be underestimated.
42.         SECADENORD, which manages the Medjerda-Cap Bon canal, is currently
negotiating the take-over of the operation and maintenance of the Nebhana
distribution system. Although its future activities have not yet been clearly
defined, it should at least be responsible for the entire network of pre-
stressed concrete pipes, the Sisseb aquifer exploitation works, as well as
pressure control devices.
43.         Fundinz made available for the Irrigation Perimeters.  Although the
uperational budget of the former Agencies is supported by important subsidies
and increasing revenues from water sales, funds allocated to infrastructure
maintenance remain insufficient.   Currently, only preventive maintenance is
provided with many shortcomings; much higher funding would be needed to allow
preventive maintenance and to forestall the need to have recourse to large and
costly rehabilitation programs. The long-term result of such an approach would
certainly benefit Tunisia' s financial situation. Some improvement should already
result from the actions initiated in 1988 under the Irrigation Management
Improvement Project (Loan 2573-TUN), even though tangible results have not yet
been obtained under that Project.



- 11 -
44.         An engineering  study  of the  irrigation networks  was  prepared
according to which there is an urgent need for major rehabilitation of old
sections of the Medjerda perimeter. Urgent interventions should be plannad as
soon as possible to keep these networks in operating condition.
45.         Suilemental  Irrigation.   Important efforts  should be made to
complete irrigation of the Medjerda perimeter. After two rehabilitation projects
and despite the efforts of the Medjerda Development Agency, only 50-60 percent
of the area equipped in Medjerda is irrigated. A 1990 FAO mission noted this
was partly due to water shortages and absenteeism of farmers (this is a land
tenure issue partly addressed under the project but still to be tackled on a
national level). However, a number of areas are not irrigable because of the
degradation of certain tertiary and quartenary irrigation canals. The mission
estimated that between 5 to 10,000 ha equipped about 25 to 30 years ago should
be modernized (a diagnosis of the situation and rehabilitation of the irrigation
systems is being undertaken under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project).
Rainfed agriculture is also practiced over about 3,000 ha of state lands which
are traversed by the main irrigation canals.  In Part II of this Report, the
Borrower mentions the present trend toward privatization of state lands could
offer an adequate solution for the development of those lands.
46.         Imorovement of On-farm Irrization Efficiency.  Reduction of water
losses by infiltration of water between the hydrants and the irrigated plots can
be done by flattening the slope of the plot to be irrigated or by delivering the
flow of water as close as possible to the plot in a closed loss free system.
The project was meant to promote both techniques but did not produce the expected
results for three main reasons:
-     difficulty in freeing plots for land-levelling purposes for
periods long enough to organize large-scale works;
-   -  a simple, fast and economical land- levelling technology adapted
to small-size plots was implemented only at the end of the
project;  in addition, the Laser system used needs a rather
complex maintenance service which does not exist in Tunisia;
-     farmers are reluctant to install modern water distribution
systems on their plots (localized irrigation, perforated
flexible pipes, micro-sprinklers, etc.).   In fact, they do
not see the benefit of investing in equipment still costly in
Tunisia I to save on water sold at a price that is obviously
too low (0.030 TD/m3 in Medjerda, while costs amount to
0.041 TD; for Nebhana, these values are 0.033 TD and 0.061 TD
respectively, the latter not including maintenance costs for
the main distribution network.
47.         Solutions to these problems can and must be found.  It is important
that the Government and users work together to introduce concrete measures to
ensure that net benefits accrue throughout the economic life of the project.
1 Cost estimtes for on-fam equipsent:  i) simpUfied PVC locaL systi: 1,000 TD/ha;
(ii) locaused irrigation (Bas-Rh6ne type): 3,500 TV/ha; (iii) gresnhouse piiforated pipes: 3,500
TD/ha; (iv) greenhouse drip system: 7.000 TD/ha.



- 12 -
In particular, it would be important to:
-     increase land-levelling units and guarantee maintenance, in
particular repairs for sophisticated equipment (Laser type);
recover the costs of land-levelling works from beneficiaries
and also compensate farmers for crop losses resulting from
these works;
facilitate  the purchase  of modern  irrigation  systems by
providing maximum tax exemption on equipment and by improving
access to agricultural credit;
-     pursue a policy of regular water charge increases, which is
the only way to reduce consumption of a scarce resource; at
the same time, verify and convince farmers that irrigation
charges do not represent an unduly large portion of production
costs.
48.         Marketing.  The project provided the means to improve the marketing
system for agricultural production and to increase farmers' net benefits.
Further efforts are required to ensure efficient management and maintenance of
the established structures. This implies the need for strict monitol:ng by the
authorities and promotion of independent management by beneficiaries, preferably
through cooperatives. It should be noted that by completion of the project, only
one cooperative was managing the grading and packing station for fruit in Sbikha
(Nebhana); all other facilities provided by the project (milk collection centers,
cold storage and processing stations) have until now been managed by the
Agencies/CRDAs.   The take-over by the private sector of the management of
marketing facilities has become even more urgent in the wake of the recent
reorganization which saw the transfer of the responsibilities of the agricultural
development agencies to the CRDAs.
H.    Bank Performance
49.         From Identification to Appraisal.   Following a request by the
Tunisian Government that financing be considered by the Bank for a project aiming
at complementing and expanding actions initiated by the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 1068-TUN), preparatory studies were carried out by the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program for the Medjerda component, and by consultants (SODETEG
- France) for the Nebhana component. The Bank closely monitored this preparation
phase and the appraisal mission took place in September/October 1981.
50.         Sunermision.   In the course of project implementation,  the Bank
helped to speed up bidding procedures and was generally flexible whenever changes
to the loan Agreement were required and/or requested by Government.  It also
maintained an open dialogue with the Government/implementing agencies during
field visits.
51.         The eight supervision missions organized by the Bank at regular
intervals between October 1982 and March 1988 helped maintain a constructive
dialogue with the Government/implementing agencies and to resolve any
difficulties.



- 13 -
52.         The major lessons to be learned from Bank performance are:
-     rehabilitation of an old irrigation perimeter (Medjerda in this
case), must be considered from a long-term perspective.  It
is obviously not enough to finance the specific replacement
of damaged pipes if other parts still operational during
appraisal are going to wear out in the near future.   On
sections equipped with precast concrete lumes over 30 years
ago, no significant improvement can be expected with ad-hoc
rehabilitation; only full-scale rehabilitation Iwith a review
of basic design must be envisaged, even if this would mean
investing as much as for construction of new irrigation
systems;
-     it is not sufficient to recommend a land-levelling program or
improvement of irrigation efficiency unless all conditions
required for success are met. When the project was carried
out, the fact that plots were not made available for land-
levelling and the high cost of modern irrigation systems were
important limiting factors.
I.    Bogrower Performance
53.         The project was executed very satisfactorily by the ilinistry of
Agriculture, mainly due to the existence of the OMVVM and OMIVAN, which were
semi-autonomous public agencies operating under the supervisory authority of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
54.         The  Government was  fully  cognizant  of some  of  the  immediate
consequences of the reorganization, and thus proposed to entrust the operation
and maintenance of the Nebhana pipe distribution system to SECADENORD, which has
the requisite experience in this field.
55.         The DEGTH has  issued new instructions  for operating the main
floodgates of the Nebhana distribution network in case heavy floods fill up the
reservoir which feeds it, and there is a recurrence of the siltation problem
experienced in 1987. To limit the rate of siltation, it is, however, recommended
to install control devices at the floodgates, maybe even automatic ones to
prevent accidents which could occur through human error. In addition, studies
have been launched to install an intermediary intake 10 m above the current one,
which  encourages  the  formation  of cone-shaped  silt  deposits.    Once  the
construction of this hydrant is completed, the old hydrant would be definitely
sealed.
56.         Difficulties encountered during the first year of the project stemmed
mainly from the lack of local funds which had not been released, probably due
to bureaucratic  delays.   Both Development Agencies experienced management
problems in 1985 due to a poor distribution of responsibilities, but this
situation was resolved the following year through support from the Ministry.
1S** GERSAR Study under Irrisation Managment Improvement Project (Loan 2573-TUN).



- 14 -
57.         The Borrower's actions in areas of land-levelling and improvement
of on-farm irrigation efficiency, did not produce spectacular results for the
reasons described above (paras 26 and 46).
58.         The major lessons to be learned for the future are:
-     activities of the monitoring and evaluation units need to be
planned with care; efforts should be focussed particularly on
the selection of agro-economic indicators which are really
useful in the assessment af project results and representative
of the project area;
-     the reorganization, i.e. the integration of the ex-Agencies
into the CRDAs, could have been introduced over the entire
country once the advantages and drawbacks of such a fundamental
change had been tested within a pilot region.
J.    Bank/Borrower Relations
59.         Supervision missions played a catalytic role in decision-making at
the central level; in addition, they kept central authorities informed of
progress being made, and problems encountered during implementation, which could
therefore be solved without delay.   Some recommendations made by the Bank,
particularly with regard to procurement, may have appeared like constraints to
the authorities, but were in fact aimed at facilitating project implementation
within the framework of the Bank's obligations towards its member countries.
K.    Consultina Services
60.         Medierda.  A UNDP project 1 provided the Medjerda Development Agency
with technical assistance for provision of training and extension to support
development of moderr. irrigation techniques. Thanks to this assistance, a land-
levelling method, adapted to conditions in the Medjerda perimeter, was developed
and tested. Performance plans for the new irrigation schemes developed in the
context of the project were prepared by the consulting firm GERSAR
718.65 man-months).
61.        ftbhana.   The Nebhana Development Agency used 84 man-months of
technical assistance from GERSAR/France, DARUDEC/Netherlands and LAVALIN/Canada.
Consultants focussed on the following activities:
preparation of tender documents, bid evaluation and supervision
of works;
strengthening technical training and extension services;
promotion of cooperatives and definition of their organization
and management.
1 UTYTuNwolenuu.



- 15 -
-    planning project organization and implementation.
62.        With the exception of a consultant from LAVALIN,I the quality of the
technical assistance provided by consultants was good and appreciated by the
Agencies.
L.    ProJect Documentation and Data
63.        The Staff Appraisal Report 2 was an important reference document
which proved useful to the executing agencies and to Bank supervision missions;
it was also helpful in writing the PCR.
64.         Part of the data included in the completion report had been collected
in specific reports prepared by the Irrigation Agencies. 3 Generally speaking,
these reports describe in detail the physical results of the project but omit
agro-economic results, with the exception of some farm-model budgets provided by
OMIVAN. Returns on investments were not estimated for the sub-projects.
65.        The economic analysis of this Completion Report is based on agro-
economic data collected by the Development Agencies' monitoring and evaluation
units, and by information obtained by the completion mission from the Agencies
and the Central Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture.
1 Comments by LAVALIN are attached as Annex 4.
2 Complete English version Report No. 3807-TUN, dated April 20, 1982, as well as French translation of
most important chapters.
3 See OMVVM Completion Report (September, 1989) and CF.IVAN Completion Report (December, 1989).



- 16 -
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Comments on the Hedierda Component
Data contained in Part III of the Completion Report which refer to
the Medjerda component are generally accurate.
B.    Coments _n the Analysis Contained in Part I
The following should be noted:
Para. 26
There was no real lack of local funding at the start of the
project. Medjerda staff spent the first year of project implementation
preparing studies and local and international bidding, and the need for
expenses was very much reduced. Local funding during the following years was
made available in accordance with project needs as works progressed.
Para. 45
The area occupied by state or public sector agencies in the
Medierda Valley irrigation perimeter is estimated at 4,614 ha, distributed ".
follows:
- OMVVM: 1,550 ha (Bordj El Amri farm, SAM, etc.)
- Tunisian Farm Society:  742 ha
- National Haras: 633 ha
- State Land Development Agency: 419 ha
Central Cooperative for Selected Seeds and Plants: 305 ha
- National Livestock and Range Agency: 603 ha
- Miscellaneous: 363 ha
Irrigation intensity on these lands is low (compared with the
perimeter average) and about 3,000 l are estimated to be rainfed, even though
they ire equipped with irrigation p~,pes.
The present trend toward privatization of state lands could offer
an adequate solution to the development of those lands.
Para. 46 - Point 3
Economic factors (equipment cost, water charges) d& not represent
the only constraints to the adoption of modern irrigation systems, which are
being introduced slowly, particularly in the tree plantation areas. Technical
deficiencies (adaptation of equipment to waters carrying silt, types of crops,
limited extension in this field, etc.) and commercial constraints (lack of
materials and spare parts on the market, neglected after sales-service) also
appear to be important constraints.



* 17 -
Psra. 52 - Point 1
It is true that there will be a need in the long term to
rehabilitate the irrigation network in order to maintain the productive
potential of the region. Ad-hoc rehabilitation has, in fact, showed its
limitations. A major rehabilitation program will, however, require an
important financial contribution from the nation which has already invested 25
years on development of this perimeter. Moreover, various technical. questions
must be analyzed in-depth and tests carried out prior to committing the
perimeter to a major rehabilitation program.
The establishment of a system of regular preventive maintenance
operations, as supported under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project,
appears to be an adequate medium-term solution to remove current constraints
of the irrigation networks.
C.    Evaluatlon of Bank Performance
The Bank's performance was positive during preparation and
implementation of the project. The Bank's experts monitored the project
intensively, particularly during project preparation, which helped speed up
the removal of constraints. The Bank also approved bidding documents in a
timely manner through frequent missions to Tunisia.
Contractors and suppliers were reimbursed in a timely manner by
the Bank, and this helped accelerate the implementation of several components
of the project.
It would be useful, however, if the time needed for detailed
studies and bidding were estimated more realistically by the Bank in the
project implementation schedule.
D.    Evaluation of OMVVM Performance
OMVVM was able to:
acquire a better understanding of procedures necessary to
undertake externally financed projects;
organize and train the rehabilitation and maintenance teams
for irrigation systems and access roads, and staff of the
exrsnsion unit for irrigation techniques;
acquire the necessary experience to set up, execute and
manage marketing operations, such as the establishment of
cold storage units and milk collection centers, which are
new activities for the Development Agency,
its staff acquired the ability to coordinate multi-purpose
ptojects.



18 -
Some lessons must, however, be learned for the future:
-     prior to project start-up, staff of the Development Agencv
and beneficiaries should be better informed of, and
sensitized to, the content and objectives of the various
project components.
-     a project manager should be appointed on time to plan and
monitor the various implementation phases of the project.
E.    Relations between the Bank and the Azency
Relations between the Bank and the Medjerda Development Agency
were excellent.
F.    Comments on the Nebhana ComRonent
INTROD.UC=I.
The completion report comprises three parts of which Parts 1 _.Ld
III were prepared by FAO-CP. Part II reflects the Borrower's perspective with
comments on the design and impact of the project and the lessons to be learned
from it.
It should be noted that the main hydraulic infrastructure works
produced the expected results, i.e.:
-     better distribution of water and waterflow control through
installation of pumps, renewal of drilling equipment and
establishment of reservoirs;
-     increase in the quantity of water extracted from che Sisseb
aquifer through boring of more deep wells (six new ones) to
compensate for lack of water in the dam.
Ad-hoc rehabilitation of irrigation network: this was for the
installation of new pumps for which works started in April 1989 and not in
1983.
Reservoirs and equipment: activities started in October 1985 and
not at the end of 1983.
Construction of second pipeline: the length constructed was 10.9
km and not 11.02 km.
Part III - Table 7
Document: Covenants of the Loan Agreer-snt
Section:   3.02
Operation and maintenance of the main distribution system has not yet been
transferred to SECADENORD.



- 19 -
Document: Covenants of the Loan Agreement
Section:   3.07
The last increase in the price of water was 33 millimes and not 30 ml/m3
Document: Covenants of the Nebhana Project Agreement
Section:   2.08 (a)
A contracu was signed with the agricultural service cooperative S.B. Ali.
Document:  Covenants of the Nebhana Project Agreement
Section:   2.10
In the course of the project, 14 extension staff were recruited instead of 31.
G.    Comments on the Analvsis Contained in Part I
We would like to suggest the following changes and clarifications:
-     paragraph 26 mentions that there was a lack of local funds,
which is not true at least for the former OMIVAN;
-     siltation of the Nebhana water distribution system in 1987
did not affect project implementation and monitoring;
-     with regard to agricultural production in the Nebhana
perimeters (para. 34), decreases in yields and acreage were
due to shortages of water in the dam;
-     with reference to agricultural credit (para. 32), it should
be noted that BNT credits were awarded only for modern
irrigation systems (drip, perforated pipe, portable gated
pipe) while PVC pipes were financed by the World Bank.
ornanizational Set-uD
Para. 41: the new organization, i.e., merger of the Development
Agencies and CRDAs, is currently being set-up. It is difficult at this time
to make an objective assessment of the efficiency of that organization.
Para. 42: the transfer of O&M of the Nebhana distribution system
to SECADENOR has not yet taken place, and this has consequently affected the
06& of the irrigation network.
R.    Evaluation of Bank Performance
In addition to what is reported in Part I, we would suggest the
following:
international competitive bidding: in contract award, more
preference should be given to local firms;
the time interval between bid invitation and Bank no-
objection to contract award should be reduced;



- 20 -
the Bank should ensure that the best consulting firms are
selected in order to avoid problems (as with Lavalin);1
the time required for disbursements made by the Bank should
be shortened;
establishment of a revolving fund.
I.    Evaluation of Borrower Performance
In addition to the comments made under this heading, the new CRDAs
should have the same management flexibility as the former Development
Agencies.
Staff responsible for project implementation should receive
bonuses to reward their efforts.
Systematic recruitment of foreign consultants should be avoided:
their cost is high (8,000 to 9,000 TD/month) and their involvement does not
generally continue after the preliminary design. Supervision of works is
carried out by technicians of the Agency.
1 Comnents by LAVALIN are attached as Annex 4.



- 21 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
(Irrigation  Sub-sector)
Loan/Credit                    Purpose                         Year of               Status
Title                                                       Approval
Loan 1068-TUR                  Rebabilitation of               FY 74                   Loan closed in December 1982
Irrigation                     irrigation and
Rehabilitation                 drainage networks in
Project                        the MedJerda Valley
and the Nebhana.
Loan 1431-TUN                  Financial                       FY 77                   Loan closed in June 1984
Sidi Salem                     participation in a
Multipurpose Project           multipurpose project
including
construction of a
dam, rehabilitation
and construction of
irriganed perimeters
in the Medjerda
valley
Loan 1795-TUN                  Rehabilitation and              FY 80                   Loan closed in June 1986
Southern Irrigation            creation of new
Project                        oases: institutional
strengthening
Loan 2234-TUN                  Rehabilitation and             FY 84                    Loazs closed in December 1990
Central Tunisia                creation of new
irrigation Project             irrigation
perimeters;
institutional
strengthening
Loan 2573-TUN                  Assistance  at                  FY 85                   Loan is expected to close in
Irrigation                     national level for                                      1992
Management                     improving irrigation
Improvement                    management;
institutional
measures and reforms
aimn at self-
sufficioncy of water
distribution
agencies
Loan 2605-TIN                  Rehabilitation.                FY 85                    Loan Ls expected to close in
Gabos Irrigation               expansion and                                           1991
Project                        creation of oases;
institutional
strenghtan6n&



- 22 -
Table 2: Prolect Timetable
Date planned       Date Actual
Identification (Bank)                                                09/80
Preparation (FAO/CP for Hedjerda)                                    01-07/81
Appraisal mission                                                    09-10/81
Negotiations                                                      3/30 - 4/03/82
Board Approval                                                       05/25/82
Loan Signature                                                       06/08/82
Loan Effectiveness 1                              10/06/82           02/01/83
Loan closing date 2                               12/31/88           06/30/89
Last disbursement                                 06/89              01/90
1Lox effectiveness war delayed by throe months to allow the Government to fulLfil all the codtions
of the Loan Areement.
2The closing date was delayed six months to alUow financing by the project of ome works bcin
completed. particularly In the Nobbana perimter.



- 23 -
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD              Appraisal   Adjusted Estimates                  X of actual
Fiscal year       XLtjmate    after cancellation        Actual   to adjusted
estimates
-----(US$ Million) ---------------
FY83
06/30/83              0.5              0.5                0.3          60
FY84
06/30/84              3.5               3.5               0.9          26
FY85
06/30/85              8.7              8.7                2.2          25
FY86
06/30/86             14.3              9.3 L/             5.8          62
FY87
06/30/87             18.3             13.3                8.3          62
FY88
06/30/88             22.0             15.3 /             12.0          78
FY89
06/30/89              -               15.3               13.3          87
FY90
1/24/90                               14.5 2/            14.5         100
.1/ Cancellation of US$5.0 million on 5/23/86
2/   Cancellation of US$1.7 million on 1/12/88
2/ Cancellation of US$0.839 million on 1/24/90
Date of final disbursement - 1/24/90



Table 4:  Protect Implement.acloa  (Chart
Appraisal   Actual -     ---   ---   Pe-r- P od  ------------
Estimate              1983     1984    1985        1986    1987    1988        1989 2/
NEDJERDA
1. New Trrigation                  ha    2400   2311                           50        300---985-    977
Networks                                                                  ---------------
2. Improvements Irrigation         ha      500    800    -140--       140-    140        140-
Network                                                           --------180------ 190----190--240-
3. Improvements Access Roads       km      100     105    -20--       20       20-    - 20        22-
--13-- -1 ---- 28= ------28---  18--
4. Processing ceniters              U        2       2                  2-
5. Milk collection centers          U       4        3    -1            1       1          1
6. Extension training program       U     n.a.   n.a.                          -G__-__-_
7. OKVVM buildings                  U       39      30 1/  -24         15-
---- 10 --- _   I
NEBHANA
1. Rehabilitation of pumping
stations and Sisseb System       U       4        3
3_______---- 3
2. Improvements of                         n.a.    n.a.
Irrigation Network                                           -      =----              -
3. Reservoirs and equipment         U       11       4                           11 (14,600 m3)-                  Finisiling
---__         G_----- _-- ----4 (11.600 m3)  ---
4. Increase of main pipeline       km       16     Il                  16 keir
capacity                                                         -a---11.02 km -=-
5. Improvement of distribution   ha   iOO    1000              1100 ha-
system (PVC quarternary
network)                                                 ---------1000 ba-----
6. Access roads                    Km      96      80                        96 kir
-----------------   -----80 km----
7. Marketing centers                U        2      2    -1-                            -1-                      Fiidsliing
-a2-_
8. Nurseries                        U        1       1    -1-
Appraisal Estimate  -------- Actual
22 new ones and eight rehabilitated
Loan closing: June 30. 1989.



Table 5: Pro3ect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Medierda
Appraisal *stimate                                      Actual Costs
(constant prices 1981)                                 (current price4?
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__---------------------
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign Total
-----(TD Million)---         --(USS Million)----    -----(TD Million)----    ------(US$ Million)---
1. Irrigation Infrastructure          2665    1433        4098    5330    2866        8196   2476    2082       5458    3004    3607    6611
2. Marketing Facilities                 519     720       1239    1038    1440        2478    977    1153       2130    1187    1405    2592
3. Buildings                           295      240        535      590      480      1070    310       389      699      375      469      844
4. Vehicles end Equipment              205      380        585      410      760      1170    212      392       604      255      471      726
5. On-fm Development (Credit)          860    2335        3195    1720    4670        6390       0        0        0        0        0        0/1
6. Incremental Operational             340        0        340      680        0       680       0        0        0        0        0        0/1
Expenses
7. Traintng - Fellowships                10      15         25       20       30        50       4     171       175        5      207      212
8. Technical Assistance                   0       0          0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0        0
9. Bass Cost                          4894    5123       10017    9788   10246    20034
10. Physical Contingencies             368      277        646      737      555      1291
11. Price Contingencies               1836    1790        3626    3672    3580        7252
12. hedjerda Total Cost               7098    7190       14289   14197   14381    28577   3979    4087          9066    4828    6160       10986
including 5. and 6.
Nebhana
1. Irrigation Infrastructure           2165    3447       5612    4330    6894    11224   3174         5018      8192   3770       5919   9689
2. Marketing Facilities                  240     450       690      480      900      1380    312        537      849    344        592    937
3. Support Services Facilities            95      65       160      190      130       320    107        108      215    145        145    290                                       -n
4. Vehicles and Equipment                 75     145       220      150      290       440    144        194      338    179        241     420
5. On-Farm Development (Credit)         610      510      1120    1020    2240           0       0         0        0       0         0       0                                       1
6. On-Farm Development (OMIVAN)           90      55       145      180      110       290      82        64      146    103         79    182
7. Incremental Operational              570        0       570    1140         0      1140       0         0        0       0         0       0/1
Expenses
8. Training - Fellowships                 90        0       90      180        0       180       1        78       79       1        94      96
9. Technical Assistance                   75     425       500      150      850      1000    154       467       621    201        580    781
10. Base Cost                          4010    5097       9107    8020   10194    18214
11. Physical Contigencies               258      411       669      516      822      133a
Price Contingencies                1480    1804       3284    2960    3608       6568
12. Nebhana Total Cost                 5748    7312    13060   11496   14624    26120   3974           6466    10440   4743        7651   12394
including 5. and 7.                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
12. Nebbane Total Cost                 4057    6580    10637    8113   13161    21274   3974           6466    10440   4743        7651   12394
excluding 5. and 7.                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
13. Project Total Cost                 8414   19493    19908   19829   20987    39816   7953    11553    19506   9569    13811   23380
excluding 5. end 7. (and
corresponding price
contingencies)
14. Front-End Fee                          0     163       163         0    325        325       0      192         0    325        325      325
15. Project Total Cost                12846   14665    27511    25693  29329    55022   7953    11745    19698   9569    14136   23705
including 5 , 7. and 14. -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
/1   No record available.  Components are part of project cost but are not financed by the IBRD loan.



- 26 
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Planned L.A.      Foreign  Exchange 1/
Amount    (%) 2/  Disbursed        (M)
A) Loan 2157-TUN
Categories
I. Civil Works (Medjerda)                   5 000     Ti        4 611         55
II. Vehicles and Equipment (Medjerda)        2 300      T2       1 341         58
III. Fellowships (Medjerda)                       50     T3          207        98
IV. Civil Works (Nebhana)                    2 100      Ti       2 740         59
V. Vehicles and Equipment (Nebhana)         7 700      T2       4 235         61
VI. Technical Assistance (Nebhana)            1 000     T3          ,80        74
VII. Fellowships (Nebhana)                        50    T3            94        98
VIII. Unallocated                               3 475
IX. Front-End Fee                             _325                  325
Total A                                     22 000              14 133 2/
B)  Tunisian Government                       21 200               9 569
C)  BNT (various funds)                        7 900                n.a.
D)  Farmers                                    4 000                n.a.
Total                                       55 100
T,otal A + B                                43 200              23 702
1/      Based on the Agencies' schedule of expenditures in dinars, of which the
reimbursable portion is calculated according to the disbursement
percentages in the Loan Agreement, then expressed in dollars at the
average rate of exchange of the year in question.
2/      Disbursement percentages in the Loan Agreement:
Tl: 351 of total expenditures until September 85, 601 thereafter.
T2: 100l of foreign expenditures and 651 of local expenditures.
T3: 1001 of foreign expenditures and 80X of local expenditures.
3/      Amount disbursed at 1/31/90 - US$ 14.46 million.



- 27 -
Table 6: Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Hedierda Component          Nebhana Component
Unit
Appraisal   Feb. 90         Appraisal   Feb. 90
Estimate    Actual          Estimate    Actual
year 0   year 5   year 5   year 0   year 5   year 5
1. Project Area                ha     17680    17680    17680      4800     4800      5435
2. Intensification Rate         X       92Z                94X      91X               112X
3. Agricultural Production '000 tons
- vegetables                         133.0    157.8    146.4      56.5     82.6      94.2
- cereals                              6.3      8.7       7.6        -         -        -
-  tree crops                          6.8      9.6      33.5      5.3     12.9      14.5
-  forage                              n.a      n.a       n.a        -         -        -
-  industrial crops                    0.0     16.0       0.0        -         -        -
4.  Yields                   Ton/ha
- vegetables                          13.7     15.1      16.1     19.3     23.9      32.5
- cereals                              1.3      2.0       1.1        -         -        -
- tree crops                           3.4      3.9       7.4      6.7      9.7      12.5
- forage                               n.a      n.a      n.a         -         -        -
- industrial crops                     n.a     40.0      n.a         -         -        -
5.  Number of beneficiaries            3750     3750      3750     4100     4100      4650



D. Egonomic Ipaet
Prrocs LArea                            0       1        2        3       4        5        6                                  t o 9  10  11   12       13       14    15
------------------~~~----------------------~-1 TO Milllo*U Co116tallc 891---------------------------------------------------
Net *coaic cash glow
I ha Cores (coast)                    -21.0   1.77    5.15    7.31   11.92   15.05   17.31   21.15   24.91   26.96   24.95   31.83  30.65   31.83   31.63  31.83
- 3 be forzs (inland)                 -2.50   0.22    0.54    0.50    1.17    1.46    1.32    1.86    2.05    1.a9    0.52    2.43   2.08    2.43    2.43   2.06
Investments and re-invosteenta        -0.60  -0.50   -0.98   -1.40   -1.44   -1.92   -1.41    a             0        0       0        a       0       0        0       0     E-381
Nebbana
O0U excluding opecaLion               -0.25  -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25  -0.25   -0.25   -0.25  -0.25
(- infteatrueLura)
Total not cash flow Nebbana          -24.35  *l.24    4.46    6.16   11.40   14.34   16.91   23.10   26.77   28.62   25.22   34.01  32.48   34.01   34.01  33.64
MdlI *14t
Net econmic cash flow
- farms of 5.5 he average            -35.00   1.76    5.42    9.01   12.73   16.39   18.68   20.96   23.28   25.58   31.69   31.69  31.69   31.69   31.69  31.69
Investmena  and re-lnvesimLen         -0.08  -0.54   -2.96   -2.00   -1.45   -0.65   -0.22    0             0        a       0        0       0       0        0       0      ERR-291
h edjerda    i
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~co
0ou  excludina operation              -0.:9  -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.39   -0.59  -0.39   -0.39   -0.39  -0.39                            1
total net. cash flow Hadjerda        -35.47   0.83    2.07    6.68   10.89   15.35   18.07   20.59   22.89   25.19   31.30   31.30  31.30   31.30   31.30  31.30
NET CASE IL"" TOtl.                  -59.82   2.07    6.53   12.04   22.29   26.69   35.04   43.69   49.66   53.81   56.52   65.31  63.18   65.31   65.31  64.94   EUK-321
TOTAL



- 29 -
C.  Financial Imttct
Pegim2ter                        year        Nec Annual Return 1       Return man/day
Totals   Unit per ha    of family labor
-DT in constant 89 prices--
Old Medierda PerimeteX
Tvpe 1.6 ha                        0           2900     1812                  8
5          4400      2750                12
10          6800      4250                18
Type 5.5 ha                        0          11200     2036                 21
5         14700      2672                28
10         22200      4036                42
Type 15.6 ha                       0          19800     1269                 36
5         22300      1429                41
10         38300      2455                 0
pe 34.0 ha                        0          37300     1097                68
5         38800      1141                69
10         67700      1991               124
Extenlion Medierda Perimeer
Type 1.1 ha                        0           1100     1000                  8
5          3100      2818                11
10          4700      4272                17
Tvpe 5.5 ha                        0           7300     1327                 15
5         12600      2291                24
10         19500      3545                38
Tvpe 15.6 ha                       0          14600      935                27
5         24600      1577                 5
10         41000      2628                75
Type 34.0 ha                       0          31700      932                 58
5         36300      1068                66
10         67200      1976               123
1qebhana Perimeter
Coastal Production 1.00 ha         0           6500     6500                22
5          8400      8400                29
15         13900    13900                 44
Inland Trees Plantation 3.00 ha 0             6700      2233                16
5          9100      3033                22
10         13000      4333                23
'After dukction of debt service.
H Nired sexmwi Ladr u TYD 3,5 mwday



Part III
aSble 6 (d)
0. Crooinax Patterns and Intensity
Cropping Patterns                                                       Cropping Intensity
----------------------------------------------(ha)----------------------------------------------                 ------ -------------
Fra  Type                                    Without project                                      With Project
(year 0)                                            (year 5)                                 Without project    With Project
----------------------------------------------    --------- -------------------------------------                  (yar O)             (year 5)
Vegetables    Cereals    Forage    Fruits           Vegotables    Cereals    Forage    Fruits
Old MdJarda Perimeter
1.6 ha                    1.60            -           -          -              1.60          -           -           -                    100                  100              o
5.5 he                   2.50            0.50        1.00       1.50            2.70         0.50        1.00        1.50                  100                  104
15.6 ha                    3.50           2.30        5.20       3.00            3.80         2.30        5.20       3.00                    90                   92
34.0 ha                    4.00           8.60        9.60       6.40            4.30         9.60        9.60       6.40                    87                   8e
1edjerde Eztenaon
1.6 ha                    0.50           0.60         -          -              1.10
5.5 ha                    1.50           1.90        1.30       0.80            2.50         0.50        1.50       1.20                   100                 104
15.6 ha                    2.00           5.30        3.20       2.10            3.50         3.00        4.60       3.50                    81                   94
34.0 ha                    3.70          11.00        8.00       5.20            4.30        11.50       11.00       6.20                    82                   97
Rebbbna
1.0 ha                   0.30             -           -        0.65             0.45          -           -         0.65                    95                 116
3.0 he                   0.60             -           -         1.80             -            -           -         3.00                    80                  100



- 31 -
Table 7: Status of Covenants
CovenanS                             Descrintion                               status
Document: LA                           Govt. to cause DEGTH to transfer       O&H of main water distribution
Section   3.02                         to omlVAN the responsibility for      system being transfered to
tU4 of water distribution system.    SECADENORD.
Document: LA                           Govt. to cause aNT to provide         Credits available.  Conditions
Section:  3.03                        agricultural credit.                   not attractive for small farmers.
Document: LA                           Govt. to complete land                Done.
Section : 3.04                        consolidation and furnishing of
land titles (Medjerda).
:)ocument: LA                         Govt. to take measures to reserve    Done.
Section : 3.05                         for farmers suitable space in
wholesale markets in Tunis.
Document: LA                           Govt. to entrust GIL and GIAF         Marketing study at the national
Section   3.06                        with the development of a               lovel under tne TA Project (Loan
national export strategy for          2197-TUN).
fruit and vegetables.
Oocument: LA                           OMIVAN to increase water charges      Water charges systematically
Section : 3.07                         for full WI} cost recovery,            increased (Last increase Jan. 90:
30 ml/m3). This price only
represents about 30X of the
actual costs of O&M.
Document: PA                           OMVVM to prepare semi-annual           198 Anmual report received.
Section   2.03(b)                     progress reports.
Document: PA                          oWVvi  to prepare a cosipletion        Completion report transmitted to
Section : 2.03(d)                     report.                                8ank in Oecember 1989.
Document: PA                           WIVVM  to establish an advisory       Established.
Section : 2.06(a)                     board for the operation of the
processing center at El Sathan.
Document: PA                          OMwV  to employ managers for the       Done.
Section : 2.06(b)                     processing and cold storage
centers.
Document: PA                          OWVV to ensure distribution of         Ongoing, according to available
Section : 2.07                        water for a minimum of 16 ha/day       water resources.
to be increased in peak periods.
Document: PA                           Farmers to pay to OWVV a fee to       Applied.  Fee is higher than
Section   2.08                        cover the OC8  costs of processing    actual 0&N costs.
and milk collection centers.
Document: PA                          ONWM to establish an irrigation        Done.
Section:  2.09                        and agricultural training center.
LA a Loan Agreement; PA * Project Agreement



- 32 -
Document: PA                           OiVM to hire extension agets.           Partially done.  Structure of
Section:  2.10                                                                 extension services has been
changed.
Docunent: PA                           OMWM to prepare a idit reports           1987 Audit Report received.
Section: 4.01-4.02                     and subnit them to the Bank after    1988 and 1989 Audit Reports
verification.                           expected end of 1990.
Document: PA                           CMIVAN to employ experts in             Complied with.
Section: 2.02(a)                       mwnagement.
Document: PA                           ONIVAN to eaploy an expert in           Canplied with.
Section   2.02(c)                      management of marketing
cooperatives.
Document: PA                           ONIVAN to ewploy an irrigation          CoIrlied with.
Section : 2.01(a)                      extension expert.
Document: PA                          OCIVAN to emptoy two engineers.          Coaplied with.
Section : 2.01(a)
Document: PA                           ONIVAN to prepare Annual Progress    Conpied with.
Section: 3.05(b)                       Reports and submit these to the
Bank.
Document: PA                           ONIVAN to prepare a completion          Done in December 1989.
Section: 2.05(d)                       report.
Document: PA                           ONIVAN to have Sidi Bou Ali             Contract being prepared.
Section : 2.08(a)                      processing center managed by a
cooperative or other entity.
Document: PA                           ONIVAN to hire additional               Partially complied with.
Section : 2.10                         extension staff.
Docunent: PA                           ONIVAN to prepare audit reports          198 audit transmitted on Feb.
Section: 4.01-4.02                     and submit them to the Bank after    15, 1990.  1989 auoit ready in
verification.                           June 1990.
Document: PA                          OCIVAN to increase water charges         Water charges increased in 1989
Section: 2.07                          for full OUI cost recovery.             (33 millimes/m3).
Document: PA                           OIIVAN to complete land                 1983 ha consolidated (sam  land
Section: 3.04                          consolidation and distribute land    titles remain to be signed).
titles.



- 33 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff/weeks)
Stage of Proiect Cycle
Up to appraisal                        138,8
From appraisal to Board Approval         4,7
Supervision                             54.3
Total                                  197,8



- 34 -
B. Hisuions
Type of
stage of               Month/   No. of   Days in   Specialization   Performance    Problems
Prolect Cvele           Year    Persons   FieLld        Represented           Ratin&2  Encounce
To Appraisal            6/81         3         30           I,E,C.               -                 4
From Appraisal
co Board Approval        -                      -
From Board Approval
to Effecciveness         -
Suptervisipn
Supervision 1          10/82        2          18           I.A.                 2              F
Superrision 2           4/83        2           5           ;.A.E.               2              F.T.
.uvervision 3          11/83        2           7           I.A.                 1              !
Suoerrision 4           7/84        2          10           I.A.                 2              !1, F.
Supervision 5           3/85        2           6           I.A.                 2              !
Supervision 6           3/86        1           6           1.                   2              1
Supervision 7           3/87        1           5           1.                   1
Supervision 8           3/88        1          18           I.                  I.
Completion              2/90        2          12           I.E.                 1              -
t a Irrigation Engineer: A * Agronomist; E a Economist; C * Marketing Specialist.
2 Performamce rating: 1 Probtem free or minor problem
Z Moderate problem
3 F a Financial: t * technical; M * Management.
Nedlerda



1 11 NJ I S I E
,PROJEI DE DEVEtOPPEIqEN7 DE C'IRRIGAIIONt  MEDJERDAIN(1411ANA
ORGA4IGRAtMME - TYPE V0 UN RDA
(Exempte: (RDA de Sousser
lDecret tM. '- 1238 dI 31 e. 19 '9 J:RT Ub
t11NISTERE DE L'ttCRICUTR
CluiLgil  D^ecCUcit   L                                                                                                       gI   CoUSULlovtI 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I OZSSARIAT REtjlONAI_
_IREAU   DRRI                                                            u D            IDEVELOPPEttENlAG RICt E
El SECRETARIAo    I     uS                                                                                                                                       I
|   NSPECTION      
9t  Fi.airzef*                  VULI^^1S^tl@"      DX 09 CA            g-mol"ItEu 'i     t      a      Es Ot ta  *ooli low Des                I   on ogwi op-s"ng-
P2erntOtes DE *^ Paso   a             t'900101a     .       a                                   J          e      Ac.lcAofi
* ^",,^ @@X"w ..... L ***@-ssemgtl  atea        |         **       *         U     SSIKtIU                 AUISSC"l                                                 DES1o   OIl  AFFASDIS   |CO
eV pr.s.mec         |                 ,,   .9            X                  T,* ,                              of$ *e@{@s                                 I guX  t st   15w11
ICCRAt                                                                                                     outs              S 1-  DI  a.ousUc (*IUs  I
I*ee"@sset_t ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    DO Itt(?(                      Iresfut              o     ||
* 3.  CUll* ttS  _oBsuissfol  ofI
l*esALI                               Des **tiS*U ls( 1
oe fl"^"Ctef"t tGl_                                       |       StS
*Is     beignamis  __j~(                                         ( D                    __ __ __ __ __ __ _
DES  lw@rs"^ct-                      a pewo"OSS59@"Ca|
Il   .     _    _                               C l                   gOb  Al        IAAI@OA~i 
I  ' t w  1S        f  t I w              -        l      ,      w       i      ,      t      I I        C t w           I      e                                             -  
I  I  v   1/               I                                          c I                   c I                    cc I                         v                                        zI  S
&to t s 0 a n  son                                    s~~~~        ~         ~~i 3sbA        AKJIA   A                                     
CIA &out r JCA 2/         Co. Cl coi                C&A  RIfAb.A           . CIA el , 11r  (C.  Air, *Oya          -c" C.S          f5      CA  10..It5(
cIA  ;r0E  $saul          Ccr  GlDgaiIMh            CIA  ItCCIVCM.A   CIA  Mt MIOJA.    CJIa  ifAVAL               CIA  A*Ocl'A-            CIA   eoiJIaI
CIA  ARI coos".          C"A  CrNCCVL lAI                                Co* S   l5           C 1       (c5 Caf c;    CA aA   Sef IGMs rINA  CIA  mIAit a
CO&  LSSAIEA             et. M. 0 dlIPaOAII                             CPA  MAClEA                                 C A  MACI               CIR1  S (  MANS
(IA   "off,              cod aMOCS'S IA
Sbwveau decoupage:  11 on-OSWWN          CROAs de Arians, Bizerte, Ben Anous, Tunis et aghouan.
2) *a-OIIVAg    CRAbs de  ,s-1, geirouun, Ionastir, Ietdls et 5tfa.
11  CIV: Cet(ute terrttoriale de vutgarisation.   21  CRA: Centre de rayonreuont agricote.



I IINISIE
PROJET UIE DEVELOI'I'EMENI IE LNIRIGAIIOI4 MED.EIU)A I IELUilBANA
MEDJERDA                                            (I,             ) /
\    kA   )  /, '::' g~I           -      .'- 1
l P:; Peaunoms de la Bame - Vallee
|-Nouvlsa eztumb (2310 ha                             t I~O  'i,=.                           ----           > 
N* eRd eOedmtolt 3                                 -                                *
*  Ceme d     ed      e       I            ,,'                                        -, ._
*  Ctee de olcte deol t                                                                            JoIt
Cana ddaictuitn
-   Ralies pldpkK pales
Chemin de fer
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
| ZhlW    *i /   , t         -      . 1      .      tOLPI
,S sT  F                                           I
"C ll >t                         o'f
Barrage de vibe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1 U N ISIE
PHOJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT 01 LIRRIGATION MIEJEIWA I' N E WIAU
NEBHANA
,\\-=-  *-hkAdickwu edsiades sit cmbes
.L.woI)dt Xietcnms concidut-s 16 Keo
/9D   Station de pon "}age -a aclhif
%c    leservosd tile _matsveamu
A Ceuse de ceasaimhkasmw:me
Aerok de alse endsage
X wx cx _ * n*lxRt             s                is2gts^!0
~~OfIMAffM          CU    klwcsebaic "i
......... 
b     I                                                                                                                       I I i.,a,.          I .   UX. -
us .Wr"V   "l,   "   +   ...  ,0.  Zi    a



- 39 -
Annex I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2157-TUN)
Proiect Objectives and Description (as per Loan Agreement)
The objective of the Project is to increase production of vegetables,
fruit, forage, industrial crops, and livestock in the Medjerda Vallev
perimeter and the Nebhana perimeter.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:  Medjerda Valley Derimeter
(1)   Construction of irrigation facilities by the installation of
irrigation canals and drains;  windbreak plantation;  construction
of about 35 km of farm access roads, of about 70 km of road
ditches and of about 200 farm access struztures; and land
levelling and field drainage, over an area of about 2,400 ha.
(2)   Improvement of the existing irrigation canal network over about
500 ha.
(3)   Improvement of about 100 km of farm access roads.
(4)   Construction and equipping of, and provision of trucks for, a
20.000 ton capacity fruit and vegetable processing center at El
Bathan (with a 600 ton cold storage capacity), and construction
and equipping of a 600 ton capacity cold storage center at Mornag.
(5)   Construction and equipping of refrigerated milk collection centers
at Sidi Thabet, Zhana and Mornag; provision of 12 farm-to-farm
milk collection units with a tractor and a trailer each; and
staffing of an extension team in charge of improving milking and
milk handling.
(6)   Provision of about 45 equipped tractors to OMVVM brigades to be
newly established at Bordj Toumi, Ouet Ellil, Soukra, Utique,
Bordj El Amri, Djedeida and Chouigui.



- 40 -
(7)   Construction of 9 stores for inputs at Oued Ellil, Saida, Soukra,
Tarfa, Mornaghia, Bordj El Amri, Djedeida, Chouigui and Lezdine;
construction of 7 shelters for agricultural equipment at Bordj
Toumi, Bordj El Amri, Djedeida, Chouigui, Oued Ellil, Soukra and
Utique; construction of 6 offices for OMVVM extension staff at
Saida, Mornaghia, Djedeida, Bejaoua, Soukra and Chouigui: and
construction of 17 houses for extension agents in the Medjerda
Valley perimeter.
(8)   Strengthening of OMVVM staff by the hiring of 11 additional
extension staff, by the establishment of an agricultural and
irrigation training unit, and bv the provision of fellowships.
(9)   Provision of credit, through BNT, to farmers to promote
mechanization of small farm operations, development of livestock
atid fruit tree plantations.
Part B:  'ebhana perimeter
(1)   Improvement of the Nebhana perimeter irrigation system through:
(a)   (i)   Construction and equipping of a second repumping
station ac Oued Aich, provision of three new pumps,
and stabilization of the discharge pipe at the Ain
Kebrite station;
(ii)   installation of four variable flow pumps and a
telecontrol station at the Bled Sisseb main pumping
station; and
(iii)   replacement of 4 diesel pumps by 4 electrical pumps
and acquisition of 4 standby diesel groups for the Ain
Bou Mourra station.
(b)   Installation of about 1,300 hydrants, about 'O pressure
regulators, about 25 water meters on the primary and
secondary irrigation canal network (including a water meter
at the Sidi Messaoud Dam), about 750 flow regulators, about
3,100 water meters operating at farm level, and PVC pipes
over about 1,100 ha to reduce water losses.
(c)   Construction and equipping of 11 reservoirs with a total
capacity of about 14,600 m3, five at Sbikha and one each at
Fahdloun, Enfida, Sidi Bou Ali, Akouda, Bembla and Monastir.
(d)   Construction of a second 400 m/m pipe line from Brise-
charge 5 (Bembla) to Teboulba III, over about 16 km.
(e)   (i)   Construction of a third semi-mobile aluminum pipe for
about 9 km, with a capacity of 105 l/s, to serve the
Old Teboulba perimeter;



- 41 -
(ii)   replacement of the old pipe distribution svstem over
about 450 ha at Old Teboulba, Ouardanine, Lebo,'   I
and II and Bekalta;
(iii)   enlargement of the reservoir at Bekalta II to a
capacity of about 2,050 m3; and
(iv)   minor repairs on the supply line serving the Kondar
(Enfida) perimeter.
(f)   Recharging of the aquifer at Old Teboulba.
(2)   Improv'ement of farm access roads, including:  the gravel surfacing
of about 75 km of roads, the reconstruction of about 20 km of
access roads to achieve an all-weather standard, the
rehabilitation of about 37 km of side ditches, the construction of
about 2,350 small culverts over ditches, the construction of 38
structures across temporary rivers or drains and the construction
of simple gabions and concrete protection works against flooding
in Sbikha and Sidi Bou Ali.
(3)   Construction and equipping of, and provision of trucks for, a
20,000 ton capacity fruit and vegetable processing center at
Sahline (with a 600 ton cold storage capacity); and construction
and equipping of a small sizing, grading and packaging chain for
fruit at Sbikha.
(4)   Provision of credit, through BNT, to farmers, for the purchase of
perforated plastic pipes for greenhouse irrigation, portable gated
pipe for open field irrigation, trickle irrigation equipment for
tree irrigation, and tree plantation.
(5)   Provision of credit to agricultural cooneratives by BNT for the
construction of cooperative service centers at Akouda, Bembla,
Fahdloun, Monastir, Sbikha and Sidi Bou Ali.
(6)   (a)   Establishment and operation of a 5 ha OMIVAN vegetable
nursery;
(b)   equipping and staffing of two OMIVAN disinrection units to
assist farmers in greenhouse treatment;
(c)   carrying out of land clearing over about 1,400 ha;  land
levelling over about 600 ha; installation of windbreaks
over about 3,000 ha; and drainage works at Ain Bou Mourra,
as needed; and
(d)   provision of vehicles and equipment for the maintenance of
infrastructure in the Nebhana perimeter.



- 42 -
(7)   Strengthening of OMIVAN's extension and marketing services
through:  (i) the hiring of about 30 additional extension agents
and of 4 subject matter specialists to train and assist extension
staff; (ii) the hiring of 1 engineer, 1 assistant engineer, 2
administrative staff and 1 technical assistant for OMIVAN's
marketing service;  (iii) the provision of vehicles to the subject
matter specialists and the marketing staff, and the provision of
mopeds to the additional extension staff;  (iv) the provision of
consultant services to assist in training and in th'e improvement
of extonsion services; (v) the provision of consultant services
to assist in service cooperatives' organization and management.



- 43 -
AMnem 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2157-TUN)
Procurement of Goods. Woorks and Services
Conoract/Tvpe
Shopping or direct
DCB   ICB        contracting          Total
9o      Amount    No      Amount       No     Amounc      N     Amount
(TD 1000)         (TD 1000)            (TD 1000)          (TD 1000)
Medjerda        8        852      18      4 830        3        892       29      6 574
Nebhana        1Q      1 983      1       6 042        7       -563       3       8 588
Total:         18      2 835     33      10 872       10      1455        61    15 162
category of Investment
Civil Works      Equipment        Vehicles        Studies           Total
K2    Amount    o    A                Amount   No    Amount ouNo   Amount
(TD 1000)      (TD 1000)       (TD 1000)       (TD 1000)        (TD 1000
Medjerda  14    4 299    10    1 956        4      232      1       87      29    6 574
Nebhana    9    2 677    20    5 781       3.    130                        . 22    8 588
Total     23    6 976    30    7 737        7      362      1     187       61   15 162



- 45 -
Anngx 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2157-TUN)
Seasonal Rainfall 1981-1989
Autumn    Winter    Spring    Summer    Year
S-0-N     DJ-F       M-A-M     J-J-A
--------(rainfall in millimeters)------
1. Sbikha/Kairouan Station
Nebhana (inland)                                                         */_308
1981/82                      61         78       118        15        272
1982/83                     265         82        39         6        392
1983/84                      94         26        74         4        198
1984/85                      80        110       148         0        338
1985/86                     139         19        77        12        247
1986/87                     135         59        57         8        259
1987/88                      45          8        85        16        154
1988/89                      75         61        30        42        208
1989/90                     103
2. Sousse Station
Nebhana (coastal zone)                                                   * _44
1981/82                      37        159       64          0        260
1982/83                     342         49        36         7        434
1983/84                     100         28        76         7        211
1984/85                     156        180       64          1        401
1985/86                      71         22      127          4        224
1986/87                     155        215       83          2        455
1987/88                     115         14        38         9        176
1988/89                     122        123        18        63        326
1989/90                     150
3. Cherfech Station
(Medjerda)                                                              */-48
1981/82                      58        186      127         11        382
1982/83                     278        152        70         9        509
1983/84                     173        164      101         17        455
1984/85                     106        344      147          3        600
1985/86                      80         99      148         12        339
1986/87                     292        246       89          7        634
1987/88                      60         85       68         33        246
1988/89                      74         97       86         24        281
1989/90                     123
*/General average for station operating period.



- 47 -                      Annex 4
COMMENTS FROM A CONSULTING FirTP     Page 1 of 3
Lavalin International
LAVALIN INTERNATIONAL INC,
1100 RENE-LtVESOUE BOULEVARD WEST
Montreal, December 12th, 1991      MONTREAL QUEBEC. CANADA H3B 4P3- TELEPHONE: 45141 876-4455
TELEX: 055.61250  CABLE: LAVALIN MTL  TELECOPIER: (5141 876-9273
Mr. Carlos Gois                             AGRICLLVIRS CII
Project Task Manager                     Lo. o:          _
Agriculture Division                     Dae Rie ei-
Country Department II                    COpy to:*   - 
Europe, Middle East and North Africa     Ac 6on-  '  >      R   ' C4
The World Bank                            t,/T- D f 
1818 "H" street N.W.                     Projec/Ln No
Washington D.C., 20433
U.S.A.
SUBJECT : Project completion report - Tunisia
Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development project
(Loan 2157-Tun)
Dear sir,
Further to your letter to our Mr. Andre Brais dated November 19,
1991 concerning remarks being mentioned in the World Bank's project
completion report (Part I, para. 62 and Part II, chapter H) on the
performance of our firm in the technical assistance provided to the
ex-Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana (OMIVAN), we wish to comment
as follows:
In the first attempt by Lavalin to satisfy the Terms of Reference
of the OMIVAN Project, various specialists were sent to Tunisia to
work on the many phases of the project, namely:
Design and installation of irrigation pilot projects in
orchards, greenhouses and open fields;
The preparation of a video film that could be used by
OMIVAN extension personnel for technology transfer to
farmers;
Short courses to extension personnel in French;
Short courses to farmers in Arabic;
Irrigation system design courses to OMIVAN engineers
requiring training of Lavalin computer programming.
... /2



- 48 -                   Annex 4
Page 2 of 3.
fIAJ                                            Lavalin International
Mr. Carlos Gois
December 12th, 1991
Page 2
It must be pointed out that one of the constraints was that
irrigation material specified had to be available in Tunisia or had
to be easily manufactured in Tunisia.
The above required ability in extension, research and teaching
under sub-tropical conditions in the developing world context - a
tall order - and one which could not be addressed readily at first.
The final attempt by Lavalin to meet the needs of the project to
the client's satisfaction was rewarded by a letter of thanks and
appreciation for completion of work to the full satisfaction of the
Director General and staff of OMIVAN (Copy attached).
Hoping that our comments will satisfy the Bank's requirement and
that consideration will be taken prior of editing the final report.
We remain,
LAVALIN INTERNATIONAL INC.
Ra   Leroux, P.  ng.
Vice-President
RL/hd
encl.



- 49 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3'
(Translation of Porrouer's Letter Referred to Above)
TUNISIAN REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Nebhana Development Authority
SOUSSE
Sousse
16 October 1989
Nr. Raymond Leroux, Vice President
Lavalin International
Montreal, Canada
Subject: Hydraulic Component and End-of-Project report
I have the honor of writing you this letter in the name of OMIVAN to share
with you the complete success of the intervention of Mr. Jutras, delegated by
your services, in completing the hydraulic component, as well as the end-of-
project report for the Lavalin/OMIVAN mission.
Agree, Mister Vice President, the expression of my best sentiments.
Abdelhamid El Ghali
President Director General
(signed)
(seal)



