Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3807-TUN
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 20, 1982
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                                      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(November 1981)
Currency Unit:  Tunisian Dinar (D)                         Metric System
US$1.00 = D 0.500
D 1.00 = US$2.00
ABBREVIATIONS
BNT       -   National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CLCM      -   Mutual Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Crédit Mutual)
CRDA      -   Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Régional du Développement Agricole)
DEGTH     -   Directorate for Hydraulic Study and Major Works
(Direction des Etudes et Grands Travaux Hydrauliques)
FOSDA     -   Agricultural Development Fund
(Fonds Spécial de Développement Agricole)
GIAF      -   Interprofessionnal Association for Citrus and Fruit
(Groupement Interprofessionnel des Agrumes et des Fruits)
GIL       -   Interprofesionnal Association for Vegetables
(Groupement Interprofessionnel des Légumes)
INRAT     -   National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de Recherche Agricole Tunisienne)
oC        -   Cereal Distribution and Marketing Agency
(Office des Céréales)
OEP       -   National Livestock and Range Agency
(Office de l'Elevage et des Pâturages)
OH        -   Vegetable Oil Agency
(Office des Huiles)
OMIVAN    -   Nebhana Irrigation Development Agency
(Office de la Mise en Valeur de Nebhana)
OMVVM     -   Medjerda Valley Development Agency
(Office de Mise en Valeur de la Vallée de la Medjerda)
PPAR      -   Project Performance Audit Report
SAM       -   Medjerda Agriculture Experimental Station
(Station d'Appui de la Medjerda)
SAN       -   Nebhana Agriculture Experimental Station
(Station d'Appui du Nebhana)
STIL      -   Tunisian Company for Milk Industry
(Société Tunisienne de l'Industrie Laitière)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION   ..                     ..............................................                               1
II.    THE  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR   ......................................                                                  1
A.   Place  of  Agriculture   in  the  Economy  .....................                                              1
B.   Agricultural  Performance   ................................                                                  2
C.   Horticultural  Subsector  .................................                                                  3
D.   Sector  Issues  Relevant  to  Project  .......................                                                4
E.   Bank  Involvement  in   the  Sector  ..........................                                              5
III.    THE  PROJECT  AREA  AND  PAST  DEVELOPMENT  .......................                                                 6
A.   General  .................................................                                                    6
B.   Medjerda  ................................................                                                    6
C.   Nebhana  .................................................                                                   9
D.   Bank  Involvement  in  the  Area  ............................                                              13
IV.   THE  PROJECT  .................................................                                                     16
A.   Objectives  and  Summary  Description   ......................                                              16
B.   Medjerda  Component  -  Detailed  Features  ..................                                              17
C.   Nebhana  Component  -  Detailed  Features   ...................                                             19
D.   Status  of  Engineering   ...................................                                               21
E.   Project  Cost  Estimates   ..................................                                               22
F.   Financing   ...............................................                                                 23
G.    Implementation   ..........................................                                                24
H.   Procurement  .............................................                                                  25
I.    Disbursements  ...........................................                                                 26
V.   ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  .................................                                                  28
A.   Medjerda;   Project  Management  and  Staffing   ....                                  ..........           28
B.   Medjerda:   Assistance   to  Farmers  ........................                                              29
C.   Nebhana:    Project  Management  and  Staffing   ....                                 ...........           30
D.   Nebhana:    Assistance   to  Farmers  ..........................                                            32
E.    Safety  of  Dams  ..........................................                                               32
F.    Cost  Recovery   ...........................................                                               32
G.   Accounts  and  Audits  .....................................                                                35
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission in September/October
1981, consisting of Messrs. J. Cerych, J. Hall, H. Plusquellec, F. Reeb and
Ms. W. Stickel (Bank), and Mr. L. Bou and Mrs. E. Garibaldi (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                                     Page No.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................................               35
A.  Production ..............................................               35
B.  Marketing and Prices ....................................               36
C.  Farm Incomes ............................................               40
D.  Economic Analysis .......................................               41
E.  Project Risks ...........................................               44
VII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....            ............   45
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  Project Costs and Schedule of Expenditures ....            ..........    47
ANNEX 2:  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .....................               49
ANNEX 3:  Production Tables .......................................                50
ANNEX 4:  Farm Budget Summary Tables ...............................               54
ANNEX 5:  Organization Chart ......................................                51
Implementation Schedule .................................              59
ANNEX 6:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File                60
MAPS; IBRD 16133, 16134
ANNEXES IN THE IMPLEMENTATION FILE
ANNEX 7:  Agricultural Development:  Medjerda
ANNEX 8:  Livestock and Dairy Developments in Medjerda
ANNEX 9:  Agricultural Development:  Nebhana
ANNEX 10; Marketing: Medjerda
ANNEX 11: Marketing: Nebhana
ANNEX 12: Economic Analysis
ANNEX 13: Farm Budgets
ANNEX 14: Cost Recovery: Nebhana



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Tunisia requested the Bank to help finance a
Project aimed at extension and completion of actions and investments
undertaken under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-TUN of
December 1974) in the Medjerda irrigation perimeter near Tunis and in the
Nebhana perimeters in East-Central Tunisia. The Medjerda component would
extend the secondary and tertiary irrigation infrastructure to an additional
2,330 ha, provide marketing facilities for fruits, vegetables, and milk
collection, and finance additional equipment for OMVVM, the agriculture
development agency managing the perimeter. The Nebhana component would aim
principally at increased mobilization of available water resources,
improvement of water distribution and reduction in water losses, and would
also finance a vegetable processing center and aim at the generalization of
on-farm development by irrigation systems tested under the Rehabilitation
Project. Both Project components would include provision of credit to farmers.
1.02     The Government is presently undertaking erosion control works in the
Nebhana reservoir basin to reduce siltation of the Sidi Messaoud reservoir.
Although these works will have a long-term beneficial impact on the Nebhana
irrigation systems their cost and benefits have not been included in the
present Project.
1.03     The Medjerda component was prepared by FAO/CP and OMVVM during 1981.
The Nebhana component was prepared by the consulting firm SODETEG (France) in
collaboration with OMIVAN, the agriculture development agency managing the
perimeter, in 1977 under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. Due to
substantial changes in cropping patterns (use of plastic greenhouses) and
lower than expected water availability, the Nebhana study was completely
reviewed and updated in 1981, also by the SODETEG consultants.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.01     Tunisia's population is estimated at about 6.6 million, of which 3.1
million live in the rural areas. About 13% of the Tunisian population lives
at or below the absolute poverty level; 45% of this section of the population
live in the rural areas. Due to a more rapid expansion of other sectors,
especially industry, the agriculture's share in GDP has decreased from 24% in
1972 to 15% in 1980. Agriculture accounted for about 35% of total employment
in 1980, down from 50% in 1972.  Agriculture's share in total investment
(private and public) has remained constant at about 14% during the 1970's.
Agriculture's share in Government's total expenditures has averaged 9 to 10%
during the 1970's.



- 2 -
B. Agricultural Performance
2.02     Natural Resources.  Tunisia can be divided into three main ecological
zones. The Northern-most zone is separated from the Central zone by a branch
of the Southern Atlas Mountains called the Tunisian dorsal. The Northern zone
covers 25% of Tunisia's land area, and is characterized by high rainfall
(400-1,000 mm) and the most fertile land in the country, producing milk,
vegetables, grapes, citrus, meat, and cereals. The Central zone (15% of
Tunisia) runs between the Tunisian dorsal and a series of large salt lakes
(chotts). Central Tunisia has rainfall between 200 and 400 mm and is used
agriculturally primarily for cereals, olive trees, and as pasture-land. The
Southern region of Tunisia covering 60% of the country's total land area is a
pre-desert zone receiving less than 200 mm of rainfall. Vegetation is sparse
consisting primarily of low growing shrubs. There is some extensive grazing,
and some irrigated agriculture based on natural springs (oases) and deep wells
(plantations).
2.03     Land Use.  Of a total land area in Tunisia of 16.4 million hectares,
land suitable for agriculture and grazing totals 8.6 million ha. Of this, the
cultivable area covers 5.2 million ha, forests and esparto grass cover
1.2 million ha, and 2.2 million ha are used for grazing. About 165,000 ha are
irrigated, out of a total of 250,000 ha of potentially irrigable land. In
1978/79, 34% of the cultivable area was planted under cereals, 33% under fruit
trees, 6% under forage crops, 2% under pulses, 3% under vegetables, 1% under
industrial crops, and 21% was left fallow.
2.04     Production.  A primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-1981) was to
achieve self-sufficiency in food by 1981 (defined as a balanced commodity
trade in agricultural products), which implied an average annual increase of
6.5% in value of production at constant prices. There was increased emphasis
on irrigation, livestock, and farm machinery. Much less emphasis was given to
forestry and soil conservation, fruit trees, fishing, research and extension.
The Fifth Plan's ambitious growth target was not achieved. However,
agricultural value-added grew at 3.1% per year in real terms during the
1970's, compared to 1% per year during the 1960's. While favorable weather
played a part, the improvement was caused primarily by (i) increased use of
modern inputs; (ii) irrigation development; (iii) development of credit
facilities serving an increasing number of farmers; (iv) increasingly
favorable agricultural prices; and (v) growth in public sector agricultural
investment. Average growth figures hide considerable annual variations in
production caused largely by variations in weather conditions, and secondarily
by variations in prices.
2.05     Foreign Trade in Agriculture.  The value of agricultural exports
increased at 10.4% p.a. from 1970 to 1980 in current prices while the value of
agricultural imports grew at 14.5% p.a. The value of agricultural exports
which exceeded that of agricultural imports by an average of 20% during the
period 1970-1973 amounted to only 40% of imports during the period 1978-1980.
One of the reasons is that food import prices have increased more rapidly (12%
p.a. from 1972-1978) than have the average prices of agricultural exports
(8.7% p.a.), the second reason is that local demand increased faster than
production with, as consequence, increase in imports. There is a considerable
annual variation in the volume of most agricultural exports, with trends
difficult to identify. In general, exports of wine have declined as
production has declined, and exports of meat, dates, citrus, other fruit, and



- 3 -
olive oil have stagnated, mostly due to the rapidly expanding domestic
consumption caused by population growth coupled with higher per capita
income. Imports consist largely of cereals, sugar, dairy products, vegetable
oils, and some meats, for which growth in domestic production does not keep up
with demand.
2.06     The Forthcoming Sixth Plan.  The preparation of the Sixth Plan is
underway. The overall objective in the agricultural sector continues to
progress towards self-sufficiency in major foodstuffs. Agricultural exports
are targeted to generate sufficient earnings to cover import needs of food.
The projected expansion of field crops involves mainly durum wheat, pulses and
sugar beet. This would require increasing use of new agricultural technology,
principally high yielding varieties, fertilizers and chemical weed control.
Investments in irrigation infrastructure, tractors and harvesting equipment
would be prominent. The livestock sub-sector would be expanded primarily by
improving the genetic quality of cattle by the introduction of high yielding
cows from Europe. Tree crops would be expanded and diversified, but olives
would remain the most important crop. The areas planted under vegetables
would expand. Tree crop and vegetable expansion would depend substantially on
the further development of the irrigated perimeters. Increased Government
investment will also go to soil and water conservation, agricultural research,
and farm input supply facilities.
2.07     Northern Water Master Plan.  The Government started in 1975 a
multipurpose development of northern water resources of the country including
the Medjerda river basin, the Ichkeul watershed, the Djoumine and Sedjenane
rivers for irrigation, water supply, power and flood control. The first stage
of this development plan, partially financed by Bank Loan 1431-TUN of July
1977 and by loans of other agencies, includes construction of the major Sidi
Salem storage dam on the Medjerda river, the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection
canal, the extension of the Tunis water supply system, and the irrigation of
about 5,000 ha in the Middle Medjerda and rehabilitation of some 6,000 ha of
irrigated tree crops in the Cap Bon area. The Sidi Salem dam and associated
structures are now completed. The system will also provide additional water
for irrigation in the Lower Medjerda and potable water for the Greater Tunis
and the Sahel area, including Sousse and the villages in the Nebhana area.
C. Horticultural Subsector
2.08     Fruit (mainly citrus) and vegetables are the most dynamic subsectors
of Tunisian agriculture. The area covered by vegetables has increased from
68,500 ha in 1972/73 to 92,800 ha in 1980 and the total production has
increased during this period at an even faster rate from 787,000 tons to
1,195,000 tons. Of this quantity, over 200,000 tons were off-season
vegetables produced from October to May. Tomatoes (280,000 tons), peppers
(230,000 tons), and potatoes (125,000 tons) are the main crops. Over half of
the vegetables production (635,000 tons), including 85% of the off-season
vegetables, was from the Cap Bon area (Governorate of Nabeul) and from the
coastal area between Sousse and Sfax (Governorates of Sousse, Monastir, Sfax
and Mahdia).
2.09     Production of off-season vegetables under plastic greenhouses started
in Tunisia in 1975 and is developing rapidly. The area under the greenhouses
was 325 ha in 1979/80, has reached 600 ha by the end of 1981, and according to



current projections will be 2,000 ha in 1986.  The production of off-season
vegetables (mainly tomatoes and peppers) under greenhouses was 16,450 tons in
1979/80 and an estimated 30,000 tons in 1980/81.
2.10     While Tunisia is a regular exporter of citrus, its exports of
vegetables are negligible.   With the exception of potatoes, only token
quantities of other vegetables were exported, since local demand in the past
has absorbed the increasing production without depressing prices. If
greenhouse expansion continues at the present rate, export of part of the crop
will be necessary in order to maintain prices on the local market at a level
remunerative to farmers (see paras. 6.09-6.12).
D. Sector Issues Relevant to the Project
2.11     Land Tenure.  Major land tenure issues in Tunisia include skewed
distribution of private land, fragmentation of individual farms, lack of land
titles establishing land ownership, lack of security of land tenure for tenant
farmers, a high incidence of absentee land ownership and the tendency for
collectively owned land to be poorly managed and over-exploited. While these
problems have not been systematically attacked in non-irrigated areas, the
Government has taken measures to correct them in irrigation perimeters by
imposing a maximum and minimum farm size, undertaking land consolidation and
issuing land titles. These measures are generally being well implemented.
2.12     Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit is provided primarily (80%)
by the Government-owned National Bank of Tunisia (Banque Nationale de Tunisie,
BNT). Financing for agricultural credit is provided from BNT's own resources,
rediscount facilities of the Central Bank, World Bank loans, Government funds,
and bilateral sources. Each source of funds is managed separately by BNT.
However, lending terms are similar for all BNT lending regardless of the
financing source. Interest rates for loans to small farmersl/ are presently
6% p.a. as compared to the inflation rate of 7.8% in 1979, 10% in 1980 and 8%
(est.) in 1981. Interest rate on loans to commercial farmers are 7% p.a.
The loans to small farmers and cooperatives are usually combined with
subsidies ranging between 15 and 40% of the investment cost. In the
irrigation perimeters in-kind short-term credit is provided interest free by
the Agriculture Development Agencies responsible for the management of the
perimeters. Major. credit issues include: low loan recovery (about 55% for
BNT); lack of agricultural staff at BNT; lack of land titles for most farms,
preventing them from obtaining long-term credit; centralization of loan
decisions, resulting in an excessively long approval process; lending norms
which in case of financing from Government funds do not adequately reflect
either the costs of investments and inputs or the ability of farmers to
contribute equity;  interest rates lower than inflation;  and the small number
of farmers receiving credit (about 10 percent of farmers, mostly with large
farms).  The Third Agricultural Credit Project (effective since June 1981) is
addressing priority problems; the project requires BNT to increase
agricultural staff, establish a staff training program, decentralize some
subloan appraisal and approvals to branch offices, and undertake annual
reviews of the adequacy of its agricultural interest rates. Progress in
implementing these measures is slow. The first of these reviews of interest
rates is scheduled to be held in mid-1982.
1/ Defined as those farmers whose annual farm production does not exceed the
value of D 2,000 (US$4,000) expressed in 1980 prices.



- 5 -
2.13     Agricultural Extension.  Agricultural extension in Tunisia is
provided on an ad hoc basis, although irrigated areas are covered more
systematically than others. Extension is generally inadequate because
extension agents spend too much time assisting farmers with credit
applications, collecting statistics and doing administrative work; littie
extension effort is devoted to small and medium farmers; the work of extension
agents is not systematic; there is little connection between technical advice
regarding the use of modern inputs and the availability of credit to finance
these inputs; and there is little specialized training for extension agents,
despite the abundance of skilled administrative and technical manpower with
agricultural training in the country.
2.14     Vegetable Marketing.  Until now practically all vegetable production
has been consumed locally through a well-established private sector market.
However, as indicated in para. 2.10 above, with the expected substantial
increase in production of off-season vegetables, export of part of the crop
will be necessary. Tunisian vegetables are of excellent quality. Moreover,
export volumes are expected to remain relatively small as compared to other
suppliers like Morocco and Israel. However, in order to successfully export
to the highly competitive European market, an export strategy and appropriate
structures must be established.
E. Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.15     Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967 and to
date, eleven projects have been approved for a total of $234.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds. They include three irrigation projects - the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project in the Lower Medjerda and Nebhana areas (Loan 1068),
the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project (Loan 1431) and the Southern Irrigation
Project (Loan 1796), two Fisheries Projects (Credit 270, and Loan 1746), a
Cooperative Farm Project (Loan 484/Credit 99), three Agricultural Credit
Projects (Loan 779/Credit 263, Loan 1340, and Loan 1885,), a Rural Development
Project for the Northwest Region (Loan 1997) and a Grain Distribution and
Storage Project (Loan 2052). The latter two loans have just been made
effective. The Bank is also supporting infrastructure and on-farm investments
through two Rural Roads Projects (Loans 1601 and 2108).
2.16     Performance under these projects has been mixed, reflecting the
institutional constraints in the sector. Implementation of the irrigation
projects has been the most satisfactory; performance under the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, the precursor to the proposed project in the Lower
Medjerda and Nebhana areas, is discussed in paras. 3.32-3.41 below. The Rural
Roads Project is progressing on schedule. On the other hand, the First
Fisheries Project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delay and
low loan recoveries for boats. These problems were addressed under the Second
Fisheries Project and after agreement was reached on a strategy for improving
recoveries, but performance in this area is still below expected. The
Cooperative Farm Project, which was designed to develop production
cooperatives as part of a 10-year national program of agrarian reform, was
delayed by technical, managerial and financial problems, and then, following
the Government's abandonment of production cooperatives, was revised in 1970
and an amount of US$8.8 million cancelled. The PPAR (No. 968 of January 8,
1976) indicates that at completion in 1973, most of the project objectives,
namely improved productivity, production, worker incomes and institutional
viability, were attained. However, two other objectives, elimination of
subsistence farming and incorporation of private land-owners into production
cooperatives, were abandoned. The First Agricultural Credit Project financed



- 6 -
BNT lending for farm machinery, date palm plantations and dairy development
and processing, but was not fully disbursed until 34 months after the original
closing date because Bank Group funds were onlent at a higher interest rate
than Government funds. The PPAR (No. 2497 of May 11, 1979) indicates that
while the project achieved a good rate of return, mechanization did not yield
the benefits expected, and dairy processing suffered major cost overruns. The
interest rate problem was addressed in the Second and Third Agricultural
Credit Projects, and the Northwest Rural Development Project by requiring
uniformity of lending terms regardless of the financing source. Also, in the
Northwest Rural Development Project, farm mechanization was minimized, and
only a small agro-industrial component (milk collection centers) was
included. Such milk collection centers are also included in the proposed
project.
III. THE PROJECT AREA AND PAST DEVELOPMENT
A. General
3.01     The Lower Medjerda and Nebhana are the oldest public irrigation
perimeters in Tunisia. Construction of major works for Medjerda was completed
in 1960 and those for Nebhana in 1970. The primary distribution network in
both areas was completed in 1975. Poor maintenance of irrigation facilities,
fragmentation of holdings, lack of on-farm development, and poor extension
services resulted in significant underutilization of the irrigation systems.
The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-TUN) addressed the most
urgent issue of rehabilitation of the infrastructure with, in general,
satisfactory results (see paras. 3.32-3.41).
B. Medjerda
3.02     Area.  The Medjerda River basin is the country's main water course
with ground slopes of only 1:1,000 from Tebourba, at the head of the lower
valley, to the sea. The national road network serving the area is adequate
and provides good access to Tunis. Secondary and feeder roads require in some
cases resurfacing by a gravel layer or reconstruction. The main railway
passes through the area, but trucks transport virtually all agricultural
commodities. Telephone service is available throughout the area.
3.03     Climate and Soils.  Average annual rainfall is about 450 mm, more
than half falling during November-February. Practically no rain falls from
May through August, making irrigation essential for growing summer vegetables,
forage crops, and fruit. Winter temperatures fall below freezing in inland
areas, limiting production of citrus and off-season vegetables. Strong cold
winds during winter and dry hot winds in summer affect crops but appreciable
damage has been infrequent. Valley soils are mostly alluvial, with adequate
natural drainage except in the lower parts. Towards the hills, soils grade
into brown and reddish calcareous types. Detailed soil surveys of the entire
Project area have been carried out on 1:5,000 scale.
3.04     Water Resources.  The flow of the Medjerda River varies between 1,500
m3/sec. in winter and 1 m3/sec. in summer. Average annual discharge is
about 1 billion m3. Existing dams can provide a year-round base flow of
15 m3/sec. at the head of the main conveyor canal system (El Aroussia
diversion dam). With an estimated average water requirement of 0.4 l/sec./ha,
the existing water supply and main distribution systems are designed to
irrigate over 35,000 ha, area larger than the presently completed 30,000 ha.
The water availability will further increase with the start of operations of



- 7 -
the Sidi Salem dam and the future construction of water storage facilities
included in the Northern Water Master Plan. Water quality is good in winter,
with salt content of 1-1.5 gram/l, but is poorer in summer as salt content
increases to 3-3.5 gram/l.
3.05     Irrigation Infrastructure.  Development of irrigated agriculture in
the Lower Medjerda Valley started in 1958 and took place in several phases.
Storage and diversion dams and the main irrigation canal in the Lower Medjerda
were constructed in the 1950s with financing form the French government. By
the end of 1962, 22,000 ha were equipped with irrigation and drainage
facilities with the financial assistance of bilateral and international aid
agencies (Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, African Development Bank,
and USAID). The last phase of a 10 year "Minimum Plan" aiming at the
development of about 32,900 ha was nearly completed in 1975 with the
assistance of the Kuwait Fund. With the exception of 2,930 ha which have not
been equipped with tertiary and quaternary distribution networks under
previous projects because of land tenure issues, and 500 ha where the
distribution network is insufficient the 32,900 ha in the Lower Medjerda are
now fully equipped with irrigation and drainage facilities. The land tenure
issues on private lands covering 2,330 ha of the above-mentioned 2,930 ha (600
ha is Government land) have now been resolved and the Project will provide
tertiary and quaternary distribution networks in these areas owned by private
farmers as well as complete the network on the remaining 500 ha.
3.06     Water Use.  The theoretical water requirement for the whole area of
the Lower Medjerda perimeter is estimated at about 185 Mm3 for the current
cropping pattern. The actual use however is much below these requirements.
Of the total area of 30,000 ha now fully equipped only 17,800 ha were
irrigated in 1980 and the water consumption was 55.6 Mm3, that is
3,125 m3/ha. The latter figure represents only about 50% of the
requirements per ha at optimal cropping intensity. The main reason for the
low water use is lack of knowledge and experience of up-to-date irrigation
techniques by farmers, particularly furrow irrigation and inadequate water
quantities used. Also water delivery by OMVVM is limited to only 8-10 hours
per day and delivery flow at farmgate is too small. The Project will address
the issue of suboptimal water consumption.
3.07     Land Tenure.  The Medjerda Agrarian Reform Law of 1958, as amended in
1960, covers: the contribution that owners of more than 2 ha of irrigable land
have to make to public investments; the size of holdings, with a 50-ha
ceiling; land consolidation; and obligations of owners to irrigate at least
two-thirds of their irrigable land. A 1970 law and decree regulate the
distribution of State land to individuals. Implementation of the legislation
is proceeding slowly due to lengthy procedures and assessments. OMVVM has
handed over final property certificates to about 49-50% of the settlers, about
12% have received provisional title deeds, and formal distribution has yet to
be carried out for 40% of the settlers. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that furnishing of provisional titles be completed by December
31, 1984. Land tenure is characterized by a large number of small farms (79%)
of less than 8 ha which represent 29% of the total Project area. Medium-sized
farms from 8 to 20 ha are owned by 13% of farmers and amount to 23% of the
total surface area. Large farms over 20 ha, including 5,800 ha of State
farms, belong to 8% of owners and represent 48% of the total surface area.
This latter area includes a 600 ha government-owned horse breeding farm which
requires only 50 ha of irrigated forage.



- 8 -
3.08     Land Use.  At present, about 33% of the total area is cultivated
under irrigated vegetables; 21% under fruit trees of which 75% are irrigated;
20% under forage of which 43% are irrigated; 16% under non-irrigated cereals;
and 10% remains fallow; the fallow areas are mainly located in the biggest
farms. In 1980, the agricultural production of the area reached 145,000 tons
of vegetables (of which 70,000 tons tomatoes and 36,000 tons peppers), 6,700
tons of fruit and about 5,000 tons of cereals. Livestock production is
increasing substantially in the area. The number of pure bred cows has
substantially increased from 4,425 in 1975 to 7,018 in 1980, out of which
5,906 are being raised by private farmers. In 1980 this cattle, together with
2,200 cross-bred cows, produced 24 million liters of milk, i.e. 10% of the
country's production.
3.09.    Marketing.  Except for small quantities of artichokes which are
exported, vegetables and fruit are most often marketed through the Tunis
wholesale market. Most of the tomato production is sold to private and
cooperative processing plants for a price fixed each year by the Government.
3.10     The more important farmers sell their produce other than tomatoes
through sales agents directly on the Tunis wholesale market; the small
producers who do not possess adequate transport facilities sell either on the
village markets or through private transporters at the Tunis wholesale market,
or to independent dealers at the farm itself.  At periods of peak production
the small farmers often have difficulties obtaining remunerative prices for
their produce because they lack direct access to the Tunis market and their
produce lacks uniformity. Since they lack transport, they are also unable to
deliver potatoes and fruits for storage at the existing cold storage
facilities and have to sell at seasonally depressed prices. The Project will
address these constraints.
3.11     Some 90% of the milk produced by the Medjerda farmers is sold to
private merchants and milk collectors who then sell the milk from house to
house in Tunis. The rest is sold to the Tunisian Company of Milk Industries
(STIL) which has a dairy facility in the Medjerda. The farmers prefer to sell
to independent collectors rather than to STIL because STIL does-not collect
the milk and the farmers have to deliver it themselves, and STIL pays them
only twice monthly, and by check rather than cash. The collectors, on the
other hand, pay cash at the time of collection. However, they do not always
make daily collections, and do little or no quality control. While this
system offers some advantages to the farmers, it provides neither dependable
collection for the farmers, nor sanitary protection to consumers. The Project
will address this issue.
3.12     Credit.  The main source of credit to the Medjerda farmers is the BNT
(for investment and short-term credit) and OMVVM for short-term in-kind
credit. The BNT credit conditions are those discussed in para. 2.12. OMVVM
short-term in-kind loans are interest-free, requiring the farmers to
contribute not less than 20% of the input values and to repay their loans at
the end of the cropping season. Loan recovery since the beginning of the
OMVVM credit scheme in the Lower Medjerda Valley stands at 72%, which compares
favorably to the FOSDA (Government Fund for Agricultural Development) national
average of about 55%. Over 1,500 farmers (43%) benefit from this system
yearly. The system is generally satisfactory and will be continued under the
Project.



-9 -
3.13     The Perimeter Management.  The irrigation perimeter is managed by the
Office de Mise en Valeur de la Vallée de la Medjerda (OMVVM). OMVVM is a
semi-autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and manages, in
addition to the Lower Medjerda irrigation perimeter, other perimeters situated
in the Governorates of Beja, Bizerte and Zaghouan. Its responsibility
encompasses enforcement of the agrarian reform law, equipment of the
perimeters, management and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure,
provision of extension services, supply to farmers of agricultural inputs and
distribution and sale of water for irrigation. OMVVM, with headquarters in
Tunis, operates under a Director General nominated by the Government and has
five departments: Administration and Finance, Agricultural Development,
Trends and Programming, Land Tenure Management, and Studies and Rural
Development. Each department is subdivided into several specialized divisions
and sections (Chart No. 23462), one of them specialized in marketing of the
OMVVM's Bordj el Amir farm production. Technical support to farmers is
carried out through six regional subdivisions of the Agricultural Development
Department (DMVA) at Tebourba, El Mahrine, Mornaghia, Sidi Thabet, Douar el
Bey and Utique. Each subdivision is headed by an agricultural engineer
assisted by a team of extension agents and equipped with an input supply
center and a mechanized unit for land preparation. The land preparation unit
are presently under equipped and require new tractors. The Project will
address this issue.
C. Nebhana
3.14     Area.  The Project area is situated in East-Central Tunisia and
covers about 5000 ha net. It is composed of 14 separate irrigation perimeters
scattered along the main pipeline from the Sidi Messaoud dam on the Nebhana
river to and along the coast. In some sections, primarily in a narrow strip
of land along the sea, topography is gently undulating. Sections farther
inland have slopes exceeding 5%. Electricity and piped water are available
along the coast but not inland. National highways link the area with the
capital and regional centers; secondary roads are adequate. Flash floods in
winter may disrupt traffic for several days in the in-land sections.
3.15     Climate and Soils.  The area has two different climatic zones.  The
coastal zone--suitable for off-season vegetables, early apricots, and
citrus--encompasses eleven perimeters between Chott Mariam and Mahdia. The
semi-continental zone with rainfall of about 300 mm, cold in winter and hot in
summer is suitable for fruit and late summer crops. Average annual rainfall
in the coastal zone is 325 mm, with no rain from June through August, thus
necessitating full irrigation for all summer crops. Water deficits occur in
all months, except January, requiring irrigation for all off-season vegetable
and fruit crops. Soils in the area have been surveyed in detail and are of
colluvial origin with, generally, light to medium textures. With the
exception of about 400 ha at Ain Bou Mourra in the Sbikha perimeter no major
problems of drainage or salinity exist, and most of the area is eminently
suitable for vegetable and fruit crops. The Project will address the drainage
issue at Ain Bou Mourra.
3.16     Water Resources.  The water resources for the Nebhana irrigation
system come from the Nebhana river, from its affluent, Oued Bel Assoud, and
from associated deep-well fields at Bled Sisseb and Ain Bou Mourra. The
Nebhana River average yearly flow is about 33.5 Mm3 of water. However, its
flow has varied from extremes of about 5 and 140 Mm3 during the period
1925-1965. The flows of Oued Bel Assoud amounting to about 1.5 Mm3 are
diverted into the Sidi Messaoud reservoir. These surface resources are



- 10 -
depleted by important losses by evaporation (about 6.7 Mm3/year) and by
seepages throughout the limestone formations of the reservoir (7.3-8.0 Mm3
yearly). Seepage losses which resurge in the left and right creeks adjacent
to the reservoir vary between extremes of 2.6 and 9.5 Mm3 per year depending
on the water level in the reservoir. A part of the seepage is being repumped
into the reservoir by a pumping station at Ain Kebrite in the Wadi Bel
Assoud. The station, which if redesigned and newly equipped could repump
about 5 Mm3 into the reservoir, currently operates much under its nominal
capacity because of poor design, inadequate maintenance and corrosion. The
Project will address this issue.
3.17     To supplement surface resources, water is pumped from two aquifers,
at Bled Sisseb through 16 tubewells and at Ain Bou Mourra through 4
tubewells. The Bled Sisseb tubewells are all connected to a tank from which
water is pumped to the main pipeline. The Ain Bou Merra wells are
individually connected to the distribution system in the Sbikha perimeter.
Since the first year of operation of the Bled Sisseb system (1979), the volume
of water pumped from groundwater and injected into the main pipeline has not
exceeded 3.6 Mm3, far below the safe yield of this aquifer estimated at 10
Mm3, because of the incompatibility of the capacity of the pumps and
inadequate regulation equipment at the connection with the main line. The Ain
Bou Mourra aquifer could safely provide 2.5 Mm3/year but the equipment of
the station is old and has to be replaced. The Project will address both
constraints.
3.18     The watershed of the Nebhana River upstream of the Sidi-Messaoud Dam
covers about 86,500 ha of sparsely cultivated land and slopes with little
vegetation. After heavy rainfalls, the Nebhana River waters carry a large
amount of silt. Since initial filling of the reservoir in 1967, the average
rate of siltation has been about 1.3 Mm3 per year with the result that the
dead storage of the reservoir (27 Mm3) is expected to be filled by 1985.
Assuming the same siltation thereafter the active storage would be silted up
by about year 2030, gradually reducing the use of the reservoir and the
irrigable cropped area. The Government is conscious of the urgent need to
limit as much as possible the siltation rate and has, with the help of FAO,
started a program of erosion control measures comprising tree plantations,
establishment of permanent pastures and other erosion control related civil
works. The population of the area appears to be actively cooperating in this
effort with the Government. All Nebhana perimeters will benefit from this
erosion control program by extending the period during which maximum water
resources will be available to farmers. The Project has, however, not taken
into account the supposed extended life of the Sidi Messaoud dam and the
specific cost and benefits of this project were not taken into consideration
in calculations of Project benefits and its economic rate of return.
3.19     The main development constraint in Nebhana is lack of water.  There
are no readily available water resources which could be mobilized other than
those mentioned in paras 3.16-17 and which amount in an "average" year to
about 28 Mm3. Increase in agricultural production will have to rely on full
mobilization of the available resources, on reduction of water losses, and on
application of up-to-date water-saving irrigation practices. The Project will
address this issue.
3.20     Irrigation Infrastructure.  The main pipeline and branches from the
Sidi Messaoud reservoir to the furthest perimeter are about 126 km long, and
are made of prestressed concrete elements. The head pressure is reduced in 5
special structures to limit the working pressure in the distribution system



- il -
for economic reasons. The 14 irrigation sectors are equipped with
low-pressure buried pipes for gravity, drip or trickle type irrigation. One
hydrant for 3 ha and 5 ha is provided in the sections designed for vegetables
and fruit trees respectively. The overall water supply system is in fairly
good condition. The layout of the tertiary system designed for surface
irrigation to serve state production cooperatives which were abandoned in 1969
does not fit, however, the fragmented small farm holdings. Water losses
between the hydrants and irrigated plots are in many cases still
considerable. The Project will address this issue.
3.21     As a result of the extensions added in the furthest coastal
perimeters in Teboulba and Bekalta, the capacity of the main pipeline became
inadequate in this area during periods of intensive irrigation.  The Project
will address this constraint.
3.22     Land Tenure.  With the exception of 180 ha which belong to the
Government, all land in the Nebhana subproject area is privately held.  Land
holdings are generally small, averaging about 1 ha in the coastal perimeters
and 3 ha in the inland perimeters. The variation between coastal and inland
farm sizes reflects the difference in land use and productivity.  The coastal
perimeters are ideally suited for intensive vegetable production, with maximum
farm size of 3.6 ha, and the inland perimeters are better adapted to fruit
crops, with ceilings up to 15 ha. Land ownership is less skewed than in the
northern part of the country with 34% of farmers owing between 1.6-4 ha,
covering 34% of the land. Farmers with smaller holdings (less than 1.6 ha)
account for 50% of the farmers and 17% of the land, while larger holdings
(over 4 ha) account for 16% of farmers and 40% of the land. Most of the
larger holdings are in the inland areas.
3.23     Since 1976 a program of land consolidation has been undertaken to
reduce fragmentation of holdings and to permit efficient water distribution.
As of December 1981, 3,038 ha have been consolidated, and a remaining of 700
ha are expected to be completed during 1982 and first half of 1983. To date,
over 3,700 parcels have been consolidated into 1,125 parcels, a reduction of
over two-thirds. Farmers whose lands have been consolidated have received an
ownership certificate (certificat de possession) Final titles will be granted
in accordance with standard procedures after all consolidation actions area
are completed. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that final
distribution of land and the furnishing of provisional titles will be
completed by June 30, 1983.
3.24     Land Use and Cropping Patterns.  At present, about 70% of the Nebhana
Project area is planted with trees of which over 50% are olive trees and 20%
fruit trees. The remaining 30% are devoted to annual crops. The fruit
orchards are planted in apricots (65%), citrus (19%), and peaches (15%).
Total fruit production in 1980 exceeded 5,000 tons.
3.25     Annual crop production, including intercropping under tree crops, is
almost exclusively in vegetables. There has been a strong increase in the
area devoted to off-season vegetable crops, which has increased from 62% of
the total to 87% in the past five years. The area devoted to summer and
winter crops has shown a corresponding decline. The strong increase in
off-season vegetable production reflects in part the dramatic growth of
greenhouse production in the Nebhana Project area from 2.5 ha in 1975/76 to an
estimated 230 ha in 1981, representing roughly one-third of total area under
greenhouses in Tunisia. The principal early vegetable crops are hot pepper,
potatoes, tomatoes, and cucurbits. Watermelon is the leading seasonal



- 12-
vegetable crop in Nebhana, followed by hot pepper and tomato. Winter crops
include beans, pea, onion, and fennel.
3.26     Due to an extended drought period beginning in 1978, total area under
production has declined sharply in the last three years, reflecting a
reduction of both area under irrigation and crop intensity. OMIVAN has had to
cut off supply of irrigation water during the summer months (except for fruit
orchards) and impose quotas during the rest of the year. As a result, total
area under fruit and vegetable production in the entire Nebhana area had to be
reduced from 4,266 ha in 1977/78 to 2,706 ha in 1979/80.
3.27     Marketing.  The Nebhana area is among the most important off-season
fruit and vegetable production areas in Tunisia. Virtually all the vegetable
production is consumed in Tunisia, the main outlets being the wholesale
markets in Tunis, Sousse and Sfax. The marketing function is performed either
by service cooperatives or private dealers, or by the farmers themselves on
local retail markets. The cooperatives of Bekalta, Moknine and Chott Mariem
have a reserved space at the wholesale market in Tunis, where they market the
produce of their members. The other cooperatives market usually at local
markets especially in Bekalta. The system operates in general satisfactorily.
3.28     With the exception of early potatoes and token quantities of early
vegetables, fresh vegetables have not been exported as the local market has
readily absorbed increased production. This is likely to change in the future
because of rapidly rising production under plastic greenhouses throughout
Tunisia. The principal remaining constraint for successful early vegetable
exports is the lack of adequate packing and grading facilities. In order to
prepare for this situation, the Government has assigned the Interprofessional
Association for Vegetables ("Groupement Interprofessionnel des Légumes," GIL)
to coordinate the future vegetable export efforts and to formulate a vegetable
export policy. The Project will address this constraint.
3.29     Cooperatives.  Contrary to the situation in the Lower Medjerda, the
cooperative movement has developed rapidly in the Nebhana area. After the
dissolution of production cooperatives in the late 60's and a period of
hesitation nine service cooperatives have been created in the Project area
alone with a total membership of about 2,250 farmers (about 56% of farmers).
Their main function at present is distribution of inputs (in collaboration
with OMIVAN), marketing members' produce at the wholesale markets (see para.
3.27), and representing the farmers' interests in dealing with Government
institutions.
3.30     Credit.  As in the case of the Medjerda (see para. 3.12) the farmers
have access to investment credit from BNT and short-term credit also from BNT
and the Mutual Credit Associations (CLCMs) supervised by BNT. However, the
bulk of short-term credit the farmers contract is interest free in the form of
in-kind credit for agricultural inputs distributed and managed by OMIVAN. 80%
of the inputs distributed on this basis are channelled through the existing
service cooperatives who have their own storage facilities, and which obtain a
commission of 4% or 12% for this service from OMIVAN (the higher commission is
given to cooperatives who pay for the inputs prior to delivery). The farmers
contribution is determined each year by OMIVAN in consultation with the
cooperatives and is usually 20%. The farmers are expected to repay OMIVAN in
cash at fixed dates (May 31 for input deliveries from September to February,
and September 30 for deliveries from March to July). The overall recovery of
these loans is good, but often with significant delays (80% after 2 years and
about 50% after 6 months are recovered). The number of farmers benefitting



- 13 -
from this credit in the Nebhana varies each year, averaging around 2,500
(62%), and the total yearly amount is presently about D 850,000. The system
appears to operate satisfactorily.
3.31     Perimeter Management.  The irrigation perimeters are managed by the
agriculture development agency Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana (OMIVAN).
OMIVAN is a semi-autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture with
headquarters in Sousse. It is organized into five major departments:
Hydraulic and Rural Works, Development, Greenhouses, Marketing and Statistics,
Studies and Planning. The management of the irrigated perimeters is the
responsibility of six regional managers at Kairouan, Mahdia, Monastir, Sfax
and Sousse. Each irrigated perimeter is managed by a perimeter chief
supported by extension agents and technical personnel for irrigation, input
supply, and accounting. Its responsibilities range from operation and
maintenance of the secondary and tertiary irrigation infrastructure (the
maintenance of the dam reservoir and main pipeline is the responsibility of
the Directorate for Hydraulic Studies and Major Works (DEGTH)), supply of
agricultural inputs to farmers, extension services, and technical assistance
to farmers (where this is not done by cooperatives), and to service
cooperatives. OMIVAN is well managed and the results achieved, if measured by
the agricultural production of the perimeters, are remarkable, however,
OMIVAN's performance in encouraging efficient water use (promotion of
water-saving on-farm irrigation systems) could be substantially intensified.
The Project will address these issues.
D. Bank Involvement in the Area
3.32     Bank's first Tunisia irrigation project, the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-TUN, US$12.2 million) aimed essentially at
the rehabilitation of the then existing irrigation infrastructures in both the
Medjerda and Nebhana areas.
Medjerda
3.33     The main elements were:
(a) rehabilitation of the existing irrigation, drainage and road networks
over an area of 20,000 ha;
(b) construction of farm houses, and installation of facilities to
provide drinking water and electricity to farms lacking these
facilities;
(c) establishing of windbreaks;
(d) purchase of equipment for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation infrastructure;
(e) strengthening of OMVVM through provision of specialists, fellowships
and vehicles;
(f) on-farm development (orchards, dairy cattle, stables) to be financed
through BNT by medium-term credit, and short-term credit for inputs
and
(g) technical assistance to OMVVM in preparing final designs and tender
documents for the Project works.



- 14 -
3.34     The rehabilitation works and a part of farm house construction
program were carried out by OMVVM, either by force account or by local
contractors.   The performance of OMVVM in this respect was entirely
satisfactory, and it has demonstrated its ability to execute any further
extension and maintenance works.
3.35     Of the on-farm development components subject to BNT credit only the
purchase of dairy cattle was fully successful and reallocation of funds was
necessary to meet farmers demand. Plantation of windbreaks was delayed by
inadequate supply cf seedlings by the Forestry Department, but works are
expected to be completed substantially as per appraisal estimates by Closing
Date. The other components, stables and farm construction and tree
plantation, should fall short of appraisal targets due essentially to BNT's
lengthy administrative procedures, and collateral requirements, level of down
payment and lack of enthusiasm of farmers. However, it is expected that the
recent increase of milk price (by 38%), will substantially increase demand for
imported dairy cattle, and thus demand of credit for construction of stables.
The fruit and vegetable marketing facilities provided by the proposed Project
are expected to increase also the demand for new fruit tree plantations. The
Project's mechanical units, which carry out land preparation at farmers'
request, have been well-established and highly appreciated by farmers who put
pressure on OMVVM to further develop this kind of support.
3.36     The strengthening of OMVVM extension services through recruitment of
additional personnel and training was also physically completed. However, too
little attention was paid to staff efficiency and achievements at farmers
level. As a consequence and in spite of meeting the appraisal estimates on
PY6 for cereals, forage and vegetable acreage, the use of irrigation water
remains sub-optimal and yields have changed little over the Project life.
There is still a high potential for further yield increase .providing that the
well-known cultural practices be promoted by an efficient and skilled
extension staff. Since the extension service structure exists, improvements
such as even distribution of responsibilities at field level, well-defined
working programs, regular supervision and appropriate training would greatly
improve staff efficiency and help to increase farmers' confidence in the
Project.
Nebhana
3.37     The main elements were:
(a) repairs of the hydro-mechanical equipment of the main pipeline
serving the whole area of 5,000 ha;
(b) rehabilitation of about 50 km of farm roads and of 430 km of road
ditches, provision of 760 individual meters, installation of buried
PVC pipes to replace unlined ditches on about 450 ha, construction of
about 98 km of drains and establishment of windbreaks. These works
were to be executed on a total area of about 2,000 ha where land
reform consolidation was completed;
(c) provision of equipment for operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system;



- 15 -
(d) on-farm development to be financed through credit provided by BNT and
short-term seasonal credit also provided by BNT;
(e) improvement of cooperative storage facilities and construction of a
fruit and vegetable grading and packing station, and provision of
vehicles for these facilities (also to be financed through BNT
credit);
(f) strengthening of OMIVAN through provision of specialists and
vehicles; and
(g) technical assistance to OMIVAN for preparation of engineering designs
and tender documents for Project works, and for the preparation of a
second phase project.
3.38     All the works referred to under (a) and (b) were efficiently carried
out by the OMIVAN civil works department and some cases (roads, drains,
meters, windbreaks) achievements exceed the appraisal estimates.
3.39     The credit component was less successful and only 60% (of the
appraisal estimate) of the water storage basins and about 80% of land
levelling is so far completed. Tree plantations largely exceed the
estimates. Construction and equipment of the service cooperative storage
facilities was completed only in two cases instead of five; but it can now be
expected that appraisal estimate will be achieved by Closing Date.
Construction of the grading, processing and marketing station was postponed
several times, since the Nebhana Central Cooperative which was to built and
manage the station did not have the technical, financial, or human ressources
to undertake it. Construction of the facilitiy has therefore been postponed
and included in the Project under a different management arrangement.
3.40     OMIVAN has developed under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project a
competent and well-equipped extension service, which was successful in
encouraging farmers to adopt improved cultural practices. However, in view of
the small size of land holdings in Nebhana and of the extension of greenhouses
and intensive cultural practices, the ratio of extension agents to farmers is
too small (-1:100). The intensive agricultural practices now applied require
additional support for disease control and the scarcity of water resources
require additional support in up-to-date water-saving irrigation practices.
3.41     The Project did not address the issue of water resources availability
and it was only during the preparation of the second phase of the Nebhana
Project component (part of the proposed project) that it became evident that
the potential water resources could not be fully mobilized because of physical
constraints such as the seepage of the Sidi Messaoud reservoir and
deficiencies of the deep well pumping system at Bled Sisseb.



- 16 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
4.01     The objectives of the proposed Project are to increase agricultural
production namely of season and off-season vegetables, fruit, forage,
industrial crops and livestock and milk in the irrigation perimeters of the
Lower Medjerda and Nebhana. To this effect, in the Medjerda, the Project
would:
(i)  equip with tertiary and quaternary irrigation network the remaining
2,330 ha of private lands not equipped in previous projects (see
para. 3.05);
(ii)  complete the distribution network on about 500 ha, in several small
areas, where the original equipment is insufficient (see para. 3.05);
(iii)  improve about 100 km of farm access roads;
(iv)  provide a fruit and vegetable processing center and fruit and
vegetable cold storage;
(v)  provide milk collection centers;
(vi)  provide agriculture equipment, stores and shelters for agriculture
equipment and inputs for OMVVM and houses for some of its extension
staff;
(vii)  improve OMVVM extension services and establish a training center;
(viii)  provide fellowships and training; and
(ix)  provide credit for on-farm investments, acquisition of heifers and
fruit tree plantations.
4.02     In the Nebhana the Project objectives would be achieved by making
full use of scarce water resources and improving water management and
distribution in conjunction with the improvement of extension services and
provision of a marketing structure. Specific investments would be in:
(i)    pumping stations at Ain Kebrite, Bled Sisseb, Ain Bou Merra and Oued
Aich;
(ii)    increasing the capacity of the main pipeline on 16 km;
(iii)   water distribution and waterflow control equipment;
(iv)    drainage improvement on about 400 ha at Ain Bou Mourra in the Sbikha
perimeter;
(v)    improvement of some 96 km of farm access roads and related water
control structures;
(vi)    the construction of a fruit and vegetable processing station equipped
with cold storage at Sahline (initially included in the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project) and the construction of a simple grading and
packing station for fruit in Sbikha;



- 17 -
(vi)  improve OMIVAN extension services;
(vii)  technical assistance, training, and fellowships for OMIVAN; and
(ix)  credit to farmers and cooperatives for on-farm development, modern
water saving irrigation equipment, fruit-tree plantations and storage
facilities for inputs and agricultural produce.
4.03     The objectives of the proposed Project are within Government
investment priorities. The Project would benefit about 3,800 farmers in the
Medjerda and about 4,000 in the Nebhana. Urban consumers would benefit from
more regular supply of higher quality of fruit and vegetable at more stable
prices, as well as from increased supply of high quality fresh milk.
B. Medjerda Component - Detailed Features
4.04     Equipment of 2,330 ha of private land for irrigation.  The Project
will finance the equipment of an area which had not been included in previous
development projects because of pending land reform issues which are now
resolved. Works will include the construction of tertiary and quaternary
flume canals over 2,330 ha, 960 ha land leveling, 33 km drains, 664 ha on-farm
drainage, 72 km windbreaks, 36 km farm access roads, 70 km road ditches, and
206 farm access structures.
4.05     Improvement of Irrigation Network on 500 ha.  The area to be improved
covers 84 farms scattered throughout the OMVVM irrigated area which, due to
inadequacy of the distribution network, are irrigated at 15% only. The
Project will finance in these areas 19.5 km of tertiary canals, 34 ha land
levelling and 52 gated structures. The required studies were carried out by
OMVVM at a 1/5,000 scale.
4.06     Improvement of 102 km of Farm Access Roads.  Due to the clayey type
of most of Medjerda valley soils, transportation of inputs and collection of
production is made difficult and sometimes impossible during the rainy
season. To provide all weather access to some parts of the Project area
(about 5,000 ha or 16% of the irrigated land), 102 km of tracks will receive a
stone base layer.
4.07     Construction of a Fruit and Vegetable Processing Center.  The Project
will finance the construction of a processing center at El Bathan, with an
annual capacity of 20,000 tons of vegetables and fruits. This center will be
equipped with grading, sizing, packing and storage facilities and with a
600-ton cold storage facility for potatoes, and fruit. Construction will
include a 2,250 m2 sorting and packing hall, a 30 m2 refrigeration room,
a 500 m2 cold store and 1,220 m2 for equipment storage, offices, garages,
etc. The center will be equipped with four 2-ton trucks to collect small
farmers' production and with two 7-ton trucks to decrease the center's
dependency upon private carriers at peak production periods.  The center will
be supplied with all necessary equipment for packing such as containers, sacks
and pallets. A 600-ton cold store will also be built at Mornag (see para.
5.03).



- 18 -
4.08     Milk Collection Centers.  The milk collection component will include
(i) building and equipment of 4 refrigerated collection centers in Sidi
Thabet, Zhana, Manouba and Mornag with a total capacity of 30,000 liters;
(ii) 12 farm-to-farm collection units (a tractor and a trailer each) for
collection of milk from about 625 different farms, with an average output of
26,500 liters a day; and (iii) a small extension team in charge of improving
milking and milk handling under sanitary conditions. The implementation of
the program will: (i) permit milk collection at farm level, (ii) guarantee a
permanent outlet for milk at any season and (iii) insure a farm gate price
consistent with that paid by the dairy industry (see para. 5.06).
4.09     Equipment.  The Project would also finance 7 mechanized units for
deep plowing and land preparation (para. 3.35) to be operated by the
Agriculture Development Department of OMVVM in seven locations of the Medjerda
area: Bordj Toumi, Oued Ellil, Soukra, Utique, Bordj El Amri, Djedeida and
Chouigui. The equipment will consist of about 45 appropriately equipped
tractors (35/75 CV).
4.10     Construction.  In order to improve Project efficiency and develop
support services for farmers, the Project will finance additional
infrastructure: 9 stores for inputs (100 m2) at Oued Ellil, Saida, Soukra,
Tarfa, Mornaghia, Bordj El Amri, Djedeida, Chouigui and Lezdine; 7 shelters
for agriculture equipment, to be built in centers described in para 4.10, and
6 offices for extension staff, to be built in the following locations: Saida,
Mornaghia, Djedeida, Bejaoua, Soukra, and Chouigui. In order to provide
housing for the new extension agents where renting for a reasonable price is
not possible or housing is not available, 17 houses will be built in various
parts of the Medjerda perimeter.
4.11     Improvement of Extension Service and Training .  The Project will
finance 11 additional extension staff (1 engineer and 10 extension agents) of
whom 4 will be assigned to the farmers of the newly irrigated area and 7 will
increase the present staff in order to reach a ratio of about 50 farmers per
agent. The service will be organized as described in paras. 5.10-5.12 to
improve staff efficiency and skills. An irrigation training unit will be
established within the OMVVM's DMVA, staffed with 2 engineers and supporting
staff. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotations. The two
unit managers will receive special training abroad in the skills of
programming and managing training. The unit will manage a training center to
be established on one of the OMVVM farms and will receive special equipment
for field training in irrigation. With the support of external specialists,
the unit manager will be responsible for programming and carrying out the
extension training program. The unit activities will include one to two weeks
training sessions at the center for theoretical and field training, short
refresher courses in the field during the growing season and regular
monitoring and support of extension agents in the field.
4.12     Fellowship and Training.  Along with other specialized agencies such
as INRAT, the Tunisian National Institute for Agricultural Research, the
training center managed by the Teaching, Research and Extension Department,
has equipment and capacity to provide most of the training to OMVVM staff.
However, fellowships to foreign countries will be necessary for the managerial
staff of the grading, packing and marketing center and for the training unit.



- 19 -
4.13     Credit.  Investment credit will be made available to farmers through
existing credit lines of BNT in order to promote small-scale mechanization,
development of livestock and fruit tree plantations. It is expected that over
90 small tractors and about 3,500 heifers will be bought, approximately 400
stables constructed, and 475 ha planted with fruit trees during the Project
implementation period. Short-term credit will also be provided by BNT, and by
OMVVM in the form of in-kind credit as is the present practice (para. 3.12).
C. Nebhana.Component - Detailed Features
4.14     Improvement of the irrigation system.   The irrigation on the 5,000
ha of the 14 perimeters will be improved through increased mobilization of
available surface and underground water, reduction of water losses, and
improvement of on-farm irrigation efficiency. The Project comprises the
following investments;
(a)  Mobilization of water resources;  Three new pumps with a capacity of
71 1/sec each will be provided at the existing Ain Kebrite Pumping
Station and the discharge pipe improved; a second repumping station
will be established on the Oued Aich at the right side of the dam
with a capacity of 90 1/sec. To increase the output of the Bled
Sisseb aquifer from 3.5 to 7 Mm3, the Project will provide (i) 4
variable flow pumps (40 to 80 I/s) in addition to the four existing
electrical pumps; and (ii) a telecontrol system. At Ain Bou Mourra,
the four existing diesel pumps will be replaced by electrical pumps
with four standby diesel groups in order to provide better
flexibility of operation.
(b) Reduction of water losses. To minimize irrigation water losses the
Project will finance 1,318 additional hydrants to increase the ratio
to 1 for 3 ha in fruit tree plantations and one per ha in vegetable
areas. The existing distribution equipment will also be completed by
28 pressure regulators to keep water pressure at 3.0 kg/cm2 and
750 flow regulators to limit the hydrant outputs at 10/12 I/s. In
addition, 3,100 water meters will be purchased to complete the
existing hydrant control system and 26 water meters will be installed
along primary and secondary canals to measure total and section
consumption. Earth ditches will be replaced by PVC pipes on about
1,100 ha to reduce losses between hydrants and farms.
(c) Improvement of water distribution. The Project will finance the
construction of 11 concrete reservoirs with a total capacity of
14,600 m3 in order to store about 2 hours water consumption and
ensure more flexibility for irrigation. The reservoirs' size will
meet the needs of each Sroject section and their capacity will range
between 360 and 3,340 m . Each of them will be equipped with a
Neyrtec gated structure. Five will be built in Sbikha and one each
at Fahdloun, Enfida, Sidi Bou Ali, Akouda, Bembla and Monastir.



- 20 -
(d) The increase of the main pipe line capacity. Since the southern
coastal perimeters have been extended as compared to the original
design, a section of the main pipe line at Teboulba is now
undersized. The Project will finance a second 400 m/m pipe line from
Bembla to Teboulba III (16 km) to increase the output and to better
meet farmers' irrigation needs.
(e) Improvement of water distribution on irrigated perimeter
enlargements. On 455 ha which were not originally included in the
Nebhana perimeters, the Project will finance a new irrigation
network, including (i) a third semi-mobile aluminium pipe of 9 km
with a capacity of 105 l/s to serve Old Teboulba and (ii) the
replacement of the old pipe distribution system covering 455 ha at
Old Teboulba (300 ha), Ouardanine (50 ha), Teboulba I and II (60 ha)
and Bekalta (45 ha). In order to increase the irrigation capacity of
Bekalta II, originally planned for fruit plantation but now converted
to vegetable production, the 750 m3 reservoir will be enlarged to
increase its capacity to 2,050 m3. The Project will also finance
minor repairs on the Enfida supply pipe.
(f) Drainage improvement at Ain Bou Mourra. On about 400 ha where
drainage problems exist, the Project will provide a new drainage
system. .
(g) Recharging of the Old Teboubba aquifer. Experimentation with
recharging of the aquifer in Old Tebbouba through existing wells,
which has been started under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project,
but has been discontinued because of lack of water, will be resumed
under the Project when water availability will permit.
4.15     Improvement of farm access roads.  The Project will finance upgrading
of farm roads to provide all weather access to the Project farms: 76 km will
receive a stone layer, 20 km would be reconstructed to achieve the same
all-weather standard, 37 km side ditches will be rehabilitated and about 2,350
small culverts to permit access to farms will be constructed over the
ditches. The Project will also finance construction of 38 structures across
temporary rivers or drains and simple gabions and concrete protection works
against overflow in Sbikha and Sidi Bou Ali.
4.16     Other Works.  The Project will finance land-clearing on 1,425 ha,
land-leveling on 600 ha, and plantation of windbreaks on 400 ha. Investment
in a vegetable-plant nursery will also be included under the Project.
4.17     Vegetable Processing Center.  The Project will finance the
construction of a grading, sizing and packing center equipped with cold
storage facilities at Sahline. The financing of this center was originally
included under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, but its construction was
delayed because of lack of managerial capacity of the Nebhana Cooperative
which was to construct and manage the facility. The center will have a total
capacity of 20,000 t/year and will include one 15 t/hour processing chain for
fruits and one 80 t/day chain for potatoes coupled with a 600 ton cold storage
capacity. Construction will include a 2,700 mL sorting and packing hall, a
540 m2 cold store and 1,000 m2 storage for equipment, offices and
garages. The center will be provided with 4 trucks for transportation of
produce to Tunis and 2 small trucks and 10 vans to collect production from
small farmers (see para. 5.15). In addition, a small sizing, grading and
packing chain for fruit would be established at Sbikha in Year 4 of the
Project when the expected production of fruit would justify such an investment.



- 21 -
4.18     Credit to farmers.  The Project will assist farmers in purchasing
improved on-farm irrigation systems by providing credit through existing BNT
credit lines for (i) perforated plastic pipes to equip 150 ha of greenhouses;
(ii) portable gated pipes to equip 300 ha open field; and (iii) trickle
equipment for tree irrigation over 150 ha. An estimated 50% of farmers are
expected to adopt improved equipment by full development in year 10. In
addition, credit will be made available for 530 ha tree plantations (120 ha
apricots and 410 ha peaches). Short-term credit will also be provided by BNT,
and by OMIVAN in the form of in-kind credit as is the present practice (para.
3.30).
4.19     Credit to cooperatives.  To permit more direct marketing of produce
by cooperatives, credit will be provided for construction of 6 cooperative
storage centers (200 m2) at Akouda, Bembla, Fadhloun, Monastir, Sbikha, and
Sidi Bou Ali.
4.20     OMIVAN's equipment.  The Project will finance the establishment of a
5 ha vegetable nursery at Monastir with an output of about 6 to 8 million
plants per year. The financing will include land-clearing and levelling,
construction of farm buildings and 3,000 m2 of greehouses, farm windbreaks,
and minor irrigation equipment. In addition, the Project will finance (i) two
disinfection units operated by OMIVAN to provide assistance to farmers for
greenhouse treatments and (ii) equipment for maintenance of the Project
infrastructure: 2 four wheel drive vehicles, 1 truck, 3 tractors, 3 tanks for
liquids, 1 compactor, and 1 loader.
4.21     Improvement of OMIVAN extension and marketing staff.  In order to
improve assistance to farmers and to support the development of modern
irrigation techniques, the Project will finance an additional 31 extension
agents to reach a ratio of about 55 farmers per agent. Four subject matter
specialists will be recruited to provide technical training and assistance to
the extension staff. To assist the cooperatives and individual farmers the
marketing staff will be strengthened by recruiting 1 engineer, 1 assistant
engineer, 2 administrative staff and 1 technical assistant at headquarters
level. That staff can constitute the future core of the regional marketing
cooperative for exports to be created by the existing service cooperatives.
The equipment financed by the Project would include 4 vehicles for the subject
matter specialists, 4 vehicles for the marketing staff and 31 mopeds for the
new extension agents. The Project will include short training programs both
in Tunisia and abroad and for OMIVAN technical and marketing staff
(para. 5.17).
4.22     Technical Assistance.  The Project will provide 84 man-months of
consulting services to assist OMIVAN in (i) preparing tender documents,
evaluating bids, and supervising works; (ii) improving training and extension;
(iii) cooperative promotion and management; and (iv) planning Project
organization and implementation (para. 5.18).
D. Status of Engineering
Medjerda
4.23     Irrigation Infrastructure;.  The component includes only small
structures and tertiary and quaternary canals. Their design as well as the
one for drainage infrastructure will be similar to that used in the 30,000 ha
of Lower Medjerda which is adequate. Detailed design of these infrastructures
is virtually completed. OMVVM has the necessary capacity and experience to
finalize construction drawings during implementation.



- 22 -
4.24     Fruit and Vegetable Processing Center.  No detailed technical studies
have been prepared so far for the center. However, the center will be
pratically identical to the Sahline center in Nebhana (para. 4.17) in which
case all detailed engineering designs have been completed and approved by the
Bank. The technical preparation will therefore be limited to an adaptation to
local conditions of the Sahline designs. This work will be performed by OMVVM
with help of local consultants.
4.25     Milk Collection Centers.  The Medjerda centers will be relatively
small and simple structure with standard equipment. The designs of the
centers will be prepared by local consultants under supervision of OMVVM.
Nebhana
4.26     Irrigation Infrastructure.  Detailed engineering studies for
modifications and additions to the existing control structures along the main
pipeline have been prepared by consultants. The detailed designs for the
second repumping station at the right side of Sidi Messaoud Dam on the Oued
Aich, the modification of the existing Ain Kebrite station and the improvement
works at the Bled Sisseb pumping station have been prepared by consultants
approved by the Bank.Considering the complexity of regulation of a semi-closed
pipe irrigation system, the limited capability in this respect of OMIVAN's
technicians and the small DEGTH staff, consultants, acceptable to the Bank,
will prepare the final design of all these structures together with the tender
documents and would assist OMIVAN in supervising the works (para. 5.18).
Design of the downstream works for reduction of water losses, improvement of
water distribution and structures for roads and drains will be prepared by
OMIVAN staff with the support of consultants using standards developed during
the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
4.27     Roads.  Improvement of roads will be undertaken with the same proven
technology which does not require special design expertise and which was
adopted under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
4.28     Sahline Fruit and Vegetable Processing Center.  Detailed designs have
been prepared under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project and have been
approved by the Bank (see para. 4.17).
E. Project Cost Estimates
4.29     The total Project cost is estimated to be D 27.31 million (US$55.1
million) of which the foreign exchange component is D 14.55 million (US$29.5
million) or about 53.5%. The cost estimates are expressed in December 1981
prices.  Physical contingencies of 10% were added to civil works and
equipment. Price contingencies for the foreign exchange component as well as
for local costs!/ have been estimated to be 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85
and 6% for 1986-87, totalling 34% of the base plus physical contingencies
cost. Taxes and duties estimated at about D 4.1 million (US$8.2 million) and
representing 15% of total Project cost are included in the cost estimates.
The cost of consultant services, including support services, has been
estimated at US$11,000 per man-month. Details of cost estimates are shown in
Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2, and summarized below.
1/ Projections of local inflation are only marginally higher than world
inflation projections, and past inflation was generally lower than world
inflations.



- 23 -
Project Cost Estimates
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
(-----(D Million)-----   ----(US$ Million)----
A. Medjerda Component
Irrigation Infrastructure             2.67    1.43    4.10    5.3         2.9      8.2
Marketing Facilities                  0.52    0.72    1.24    1.0         1.4      2.4
Buildings                             0.30    0.24    0.54    0.6         0.5      1.1
Vehicles and Equipment                0.21    0.38    0.59    0.5         0.8      1.3
On-farm Development (credit)          0.86    2.33    3.19    1.7         4.7      6.4
Incremental Operation Expenses        0.34    -         0.34    0.7       -        0.7
Training - Fellowships                         0.02    0.02               /c        /c
Medjerda Base Cost                 4.90    5.12   10.02    9.8    10.3    20.1
Physical Contingencies          0.37    0.28    0.65    0.7        0.6      1.3
Price Contingencies             1.84    1.79    3.63    3.7        3.6      7.3
Medjerda Total Cost                7.11    7.19   14.30   14.2    14.5    28.7
B. Nebhana Component
Irrigation Infrastructure             2.16    3.45    5.61    4.3         6.9    11.2
Marketing Facilities                  0.24    0.45    0.69    0.5         0.9      1.4
Support Services Facilities           0.09    0.07    0.16    0.2         0.2      0.4
Vehicles and Equipment                0.07    0.15    0.22    0.2         0.3      0.5
On-Farm Development (Credit)          0.61    0.51    1.12    1.0         1.0      2.0
On-Farm Development (OMIVAN)          0.09    0.05    0.14    0.2         0.1      0.3
Incremental Operation Expenses        0.57    -         0.57    1.1       -        1.1
Training - Fellowships                0.09   /c         0.09    0.2    /c          0.2
Technical Assistance                  0.08    0.42    0.50    0.2         0.8      1.0
Nebhana Base Cost                  4.00    5.10    9.10    7.9    10.2    18.1
Physical Contingencies /a    0.27    0.41    0.68    0.5           0.9      1.4
Price Contingencies /b          1.48    1.80    3.28    3.0        3.6      6.6
Nebhana Total Cost                 5.65    7.21   12.86   11.4    14.7    26.1
PROJECT COST                   12.76   14.40   27.16   25.6    29.2    54.8
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan         -        0.15    0.15    -          0.3     0.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED    12.76   14.55   27.31   25.6    29.5    55.1
/a  10% on all items except Incremental Operating Expenses, Training, and
Technical Assistance.
/b  1982: 8.5%, 1983-85: 7.5%, 1986-87: 6%.
/c  Negligible due to rounding.
F. Financing
4.30      The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0 million will be for 17 years,
including four years of grace, and will be made to the Republic of Tunisia.
It will finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the Project excluding



- 24 -
the agricultural credit component for which national funds are already
available. Overall Bank financing will be 75% of the total foreign exchange
cost and 40% of the total Project cost. The remaining 25% of the foreign
exchange cost of the Project will be financed through BNT from various funds
at the disposal of BNT. The financing plan of the Project is shown below.
Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Bank
Project Component            Farmers  Government  BNT        IBRD   Total   Financing
(Various                 (percentage)
Funds)
Irrigation Infrastructure       0.6       13.5               14.5   28.6       50
Marketing Facilities                       2.2                3.4    5.6       61
Buildings & Related
Facilities                                1.2                1.0    2.2       45
Vehicles and Equipment                     1.0                1.6    2.6       60
On-Farm Investments
(credit)                       3.4       -         7.9       -     11.3        0
On-Farm Investments
(Development agencies)                   0.3                 0.1    0.4       25
Incremental Operation
Expenses                                  2.4                       2.4        0
Technical Assistance,
Training                                 0.6                 1.1    1.7       65
Front-End Fee on Loan           ____0.3    0.3                                100
Project Cost               4.0       21.2       7.9      22.0   55.1       40
4.31     The Government will allocate the proceeds of the loan to OMVVM
(US$8.3 million equivalent) and OMIVAN (US$13.4 million equivalent) through
their respective annual budgets. The Government will finance the local
currency costs which will also be channelled through the annual budgets of
OMVVM (about US$11.5 million equivalent) and OMIVAN (about US$9.7 million
equivalent). The Government will also cause BNT to provide investment credit
to farmers and farmer's cooperatives as may be required (US$7.9 million
equivalent). Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The
Project farmers will contribute about 30% of the cost of their on-farm
investments financed by the BNT credit (about US$3.4 million equivalent) and
will contribute 50% of the cost of PVC pipes and their placement between
hydrants and farm units as is the present practice (US$0.6 million equivalent).
G. Implementation
4.32     The Project will be implemented over a period of 5 years (1983-87).
It is estimated that the irrigation infrastructure works in Medjerda will be
completed by the end of year 5 of the Project, and the marketing facilities in
El Bathan and Mornag by year 2 while the construction of the milk collection
centers and purchase of vehicles and agricultural equipment by OMVVM will be



- 25 -
spaced over the Project implementation years. The construction and equipment
of the Nebhana pumping stations is expected to be completed in the second
project year, the doubling of the main pipeline on the final stretch of 16 km
and purchase of vehicles and equipment by OMIVAN is expected to be completed
by year 3. The installation of the water saving, control and distribution
systems will be spaced over the Project implementation period. On-farm
investments by farmers are expected to develop over the implementation period
starting at a slow pace in the first year and accelerating in the later
years. The schedule of expenditure is shown in Annex 1 Tables 1 and 2 and is
summarized below.
Expenditures             CY1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
----------------(D Million)---------------
Annual                      5.1       6.9      5.5       5.7       4.1
Cumulative                  5.1      12.0     17.5      23.2      27.3
H. Procurement
Goods
4.33     All Project equipment, except NEYRTEC equipment (see para. 4.34
below), including the electromechanical equipment for pumping stations and
tubewells, hydrants, pressure regulators, asbestos-cement and PVC pipes,
meters, taps, prefabricated canals, operation and maintenance equipment,
equipment and cold storage for the vegetable processing center and milk
collecting centers, vehicles and agriculture machinery valued at US$17.4
million equivalent including contingencies will be grouped in appropriate
bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive preference in bid evaluation of
15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous
equipment, in packages less than US$100,000, and totalling no more than US$2.0
million in aggregate (US$1.0 million for the Medjerda component and US$1.0
million for the Nebhana component to be procured by OMVVM and OMIVAN
respectively), will be procured under local competitive bidding procedures, or
local or international shopping. Local procedures were found at appraisal to
be satisfactory to the Bank.
4.34     NEYRTEC specialized hydraulic modules valued at about US$0.4 million
including contingencies will be purchased from NEYRTEC SA. France, the sole
producer of this equipment. The same equipement is already in use in the
Nebhana perimeters and is performing satisfactorily. No other similar
equipment exists presently on the market.
Civil Works
4.35     The civil works to be financed under the Project consist of a large
number of minor works and buildings widely scattered throughout the two
Project areas, which will have to be let in small contracts which would not
interest foreign contractors. In the interests of efficiency all civil works
except those referred to in para. 4.36 below will therefore be procured
through local competitive bidding procedures which have been reviewed and



- 26 -
found satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign bidders have the opportunity to
participate in LCB in Tunisia. The total value of contracts let under LCB is
expected to be about US$17.2 million including contingencies.
4.36     Certain civil works such as land levelling, up-grading of access
roads, drainage improvements and windbreak plantations valued at about US$4.7
million equivalent including contingencies would not be suitable for letting
under contract mainly because of difficulties of access. These works will be
carried out by OMVVM and OMIVAN by force account, in accordance with OMVVM,
OMIVAN and Ministry of Equipment regulations which are acceptable to the
Bank. Both agencies have executed similar works under the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project.
4.37     Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
US$0.5 million equivalent or more and bidding packages for goods over
US$250,000 equivalent and all contracts for NEYRTEC equipment will be subject
to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a
coverage of about 80% of the total estimated value of works contracts and
about 80% of goods contracts. The balance of contracts will be subject to
random post review by the Bank, after contract award.
4.38     Consultant services.  The terms of reference, qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment of the consultants to be employed under the
Project will be according to the Bank guidelines on use of consultants issued
in August 1981.
4.39     Amendments to contracts adding or deleting more than 20% of their
respective value will not be made without prior concurrence of the Bank.
-General procurement notice will be provided to the Bank not later than 60 days
prior to the availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalifications documents for publication in the UN Development Forum.
4.40     Assurances that the preceding procurement procedures will be followed
by the borrower were obtained at negotiations.
I. Disbursements
4.41     The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0 million is expected to be disbursed
over a period of 6 fiscal years (calendar 5 1/2). The historical disbursement
profiles for Tunisia indicate that average loan disbursement period, all
sectors combined, is 8 and 1/2 years; EMENA agriculture disbursement profiles
points also to an 8 and 1/2 years disbursement period. However, contrary to
previous cases, the proposed Project implementing agencies have experience
with Bank procedures and the critical designs are either completed (to
tendering stage) or at an advanced stage of preparation. Delays in Project
implementation and Loan disbursement are therefore expected to be kept to a
minimum. The loan will be disbursed as follows:



- 27 -
Category                                Amount                    Disbursement
(US$ million)                 Percentage
I. Civil works (Part A /1
of the Project)                 5.00         35% of total expenditures.
II. Vehicles and Equipment            2.30         100% of foreign expenditures or
(Part A /1 of the Project)                    65% of local expenditures
(representing the foreign
exchange component)
III. Fellowships (Part of A /1         0.05         100% of foreign expenditures or
of the Project)                               80% of local expenditures
(representing the foreign
exchange component)
IV. Civil works (Part B /2
of the Project)                 2.10         35% of total expenditures.
V. Vehicles and Equipment            7.70         100% of foreign expenditures or
(Part B /2 of the Project)                    65% of local expenditures.
VI. Technical Assistance              1.00         100% of foreign expenditures or
(Part B /2 of the Project)                    80% of local expenditures.
VII. Fellowships (Part B of the        0.05
Project)
VIII. Unallocated                       3.50
IX. Front-End Fee                    0.30
22.00
/1 Medjerda component
/2 Nebhana component
4.42     Disbursements will be fully documented except for civil works
executed directly by the Project Implementing Agencies OMVVM and OMIVAN.
Disbursements for these works will be made against certified statements of
expenditures, the documentation for which will not be submitted to the Bank
but will be retained by OMVVM and OMIVAN for review during supervision
missions. Independent auditors will be required to furnish a separate opinion
in respect of these expenditures. The detailed shedule of disbursements is
shown in Annex 2 and summarized below.
Disbursements          FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
---------------(US$ Million)----------------
Annual              0.5      3.0      5.2     5.6      4.6      3.1
Cumulative          0.5      3.5      8.7    14.3    18.9    22.0



- 28 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Medjerda; Project Management and Staffing
5.01     Since its establishment in 1958 OMVVM has been responsible for the
development of agriculture and irrigation in the Medjerda Valley (para 3.13)
and has carried out its tasks under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project in
general satisfactorily. OMVVM will be responsible for implementation of the
Medjerda component of this Project.
5.02     Civil Works.  The OMVVM Studies and Civil Works Department, which has
already prepared most of the designs for the irrigation network extension,
will be responsible for the preparation of construction drawings, bidding
documents and supervision of the principal works and will execute directly
minor irrigation, drainage and road improvement works. The department will
adapt the existing designs of the Sahline Vegetable Processing Center to suit
the El Bathan site, if required with the help of local consultants.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that full tender documents be
submitted to the Bank for approval no later than June 30, 1983.
5.03     Fruit and Vegetable Processing Center.  After completion, the
processing and cold storage centers at El Bathan and Mornag will be operated
under supervision of the OMVVM marketing division which is already in charge
of marketing the production of OMVVM's Bordj el Amri farm. The centers will
be adequately staffed to be independently managed and the marketing division
would only supervise and coordinate the centers' activities and provide
assistance at the wholesale market in Tunis. The vehicles of the center will
collect the produce of small farmers and deliver it to the center for
processing. The center will also receive direct supply from farmers having
means of transportation. Farmers will have the possibility of either selling
their production directly or through the OMVVM sales agent for marketing at
the Tunis wholesale market. All operations will be charged to the farmers at
cost. Those farmers who will make use of OMVVM's marketing facilities at the
Tunis wholesale market will receive from the center an advance payment based
on a percentage (to be determined) of the last wholesale market price and the
balance would be paid at intervals to be agreed upon. Cold storage centers
will enable the producers to spread the sale of potatoes, apples and pears
over several month.s and thus to benefit from more stable prices. To
facilitate operations of the cold storage facilities at Mornag and El Bathan
farmers will pay the actual storage cost at reception of the goods after
storage.
5.04     In order to involve farmers at an early stage in the marketing
operations and to give them an opportunity to monitor all operations and
transactions, assurances were obtained at negotiations that a supervisory and
advisory board including 5 farmers from the potential users and 2 OMVVM staff
be created 6 months before the centers start operating. The board will
periodically discuss marketing policies and suggest improvements in operations
of the facilities. After the start-up period the farmers will be encouraged
to create a service cooperative to take over the center's operation from OMVVM.



- 29 -
5.05     In order to help the farmers in marleting their produce, the
Government will arrange that the new wholesale market in Tunis contains a
space in the "producer's carreau" which will be reserved for OMVVM farmers.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.06     Milk Collection Centers and Collection Units.  The Agricultural
Development Division (DMVA), which is already collecting milk on a limited
scale, will be responsible for the management of the four milk collection
centers, and the 12 farm-to-farm collection units (para. 4.08). Milk will be
collected twice a day in personalized cans and, at delivery to the centers, it
would be tested and weighed. At the centers, milk will be stored in
refrigerated tanks until collection by STIL milk factory tankers every other
day. Payment in cash will be made weekly through milk collectors who will
distribute envelopes prepared by the center chiefs. The centers will be
leased or sold to the milk industry when production and higher fresh milk
prices will create conditions justifying such a step.
5.07     External Support.  OMVVM will continue to benefit from its
experimental station for vegetables (SAM) at Manouba and, as in the past, will
receive support from the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRAT)
in Tunis and the research center for rural engineering (CRGR) at Cherfech.
Additional and more specialized technical assistance will be provided at
OMVVM's request by organizations such as the Livestock Agency (OEP), the
Cereals Office (OC) and the Vegetable Oil agency (OH) which are already
providing support. Extension staff will be trained by the training unit to be
established under the Project. The unit will seek close cooperation with the
well-equipped Direction de l'Enseignement, de la Recherche et de la
Vulgarisation which offers adequate training facilities.
5.08     Staffing.  For staff recruitment no difficulties are expected since
graduates of agricultural schools are available to meet the Project
requirements at all levels; 4 engineers for the El Bathan marketing center,
extension, training, and milk components, 1 technical engineer for training,
12 extension agents for agriculture (10) and livestock (2) and 4 technical
assistants for the milk collection centers. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the managers for the grading, sizing, packing and cold
storage center of El Bathan and the cold storage center in Mornag will be
employed 3 months before the start of operations of the respective facilities
and will have qualifications acceptable to the Bank (TOR in Project File), and
that the extension agents will be recruited according to a timetable agreed to
with the Bank.
B. Medjerda: Assistance to Farmers
5.09     Since the technical requirements are well known production
development in the Medjerda is conditioned mainly on an improvement of the
effectiveness of the extension service. Improved extension training and a
more efficient fieldwork organization will help to promote better water
management and increase in irrigated crops over the present acreage.
5.10     Organization of the Extension Service.  Due to a loose organization
and lack of emphasis on practical training of extension agents, the
improvement of agricultural development has not been as successful as expected
under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, especially as far as improvement
of water use is concerned (paras. 3.06 and 3.36). In order to strengthen the
extension service and improve its credibility among farmers, the number of



- 30 -
extension agents will be increased from 54 to 65 in order to reach an average
of about 50 farmers per extension agent. All agents will receive precise
working schedules and programs.
5.11     Extension Agents' Activities.  The extension staff will be
distributed over the project's six agricultural regions and each regional
manager will have to supervise about 13 extension agents. The working
schedule of the extension staff will be strictly defined over a revolving
two-week period so that each farmer would become used to being visited
regularly every other week and supervision in the fields could be efficiently
organized by management. Each week four days will be devoted to visiting the
farmers, formed into groups of 6 in order to ease practical field
demonstrations and one full day would be left for administrative work. Once a
month all extension agents will meet at the region headquarters for debriefing
and briefing and in the meantime, they will occasionally attend short training
courses taught by OMVVM's subject matter specialists. For that purpose, the
meetings could last two days. The extension service will also carry out a
survey of farmers who benefit from marketing and cold storage facilities in
order to evaluate the impact of these facilities on vegetable and fruit
production.
5.12     Development and Improvement of Water Use.  The main constraint in
irrigation development appears to be the lack of water availability at
farmgate and the lack of farmer training in water management. Both issues
will be dealt with in the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that OMVVM will provide for water distribution 16 hours per day regardless of
actual demand throughout the year and promote night irrigation at peak
irrigation periods through 24-hour service. Extension agents who presently
badly lack practical skill will receive special training in irrigation at the
new center to be created under the Project (para. 4.11) in order to be able to
_____ n>te to farmers how to carry out irrigation on longer furrows and how
to manage higher water water quantities (25 1/sec instead of 5 1/sec). The
improvement provided by the new facilities for fruit and vegetable marketing
(para. 4.07) and for milk collection (para. 4.08) would be an additional
incentive to increase forage and vegetable production which rely mainly upon
improvement of irrigation.
C. Nebhana; Project Management and Staffing
5.13     OMIVAN, which was established in 1973, is successfully carrying out
the implementation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project and will be
responsible for the implementation of the Project's Nebhana component.
5.14     Civil Works.  Maintenance of irrigation works upstream of secondary
canals is presently the responsibility of the Directorate for Hydraulic
Studies and Major Works (DEGTH). Because DEGTH has widespread
responsibilities all over the country with priorities which do not necessarily
coincide with those of the Nebhana perimeters, DEGTH will progressively
transfer to OMIVAN according to a timetable to be agreed upon between the Bank
and the borrower the operation of main and secondary pipelines, as well as
operation and maintenance of the seepage pumping stations and tube wells, and
would limit its activities to the operation and maintenance of the Nebhana Dam
and important repairs of the main pipe line. Assurances to this effect were



- 31 -
obtained at negotiations. Operation of the conveyance system to the
irrigation sections is fully automatic and is performing satisfactorily.
OMIVAN will be responsible for all works on the irrigation network and related
structures with the support of DEGTH and consultants and will also supervise
the construction of the Sahline marketing center for which studies are
completed (para. 4.16). OMIVAN will also prepare the design of Sbikha packing
center with the assistance of consultants, if necessary.
5.15     Processing and Cold Storage Center.  The processing and cold storage
center at Sahline will be provided with vehicles to collect small farmers'
production. The center will be constructed under OMIVAN's supervision and
then leased to a private enterprise or a regional marketing cooperative under
a management contract (see para. 6.15). OMIVAN's marketing division will be
strengthened to monitor the management of the facilities. In addition, OMIVAN
with assistance from consultants, will provide technical assistance to farmer
cooperatives in establishing a regional export cooperative to provide a range
of export marketing services to area farmers in production planning,
collection of produce, and sales (see para. 6.14). Since the existing
cooperatives are efficient and well supported by farmers in the Nebhana
region, no problems are foreseen in organizing an effective regional
cooperative.
5.16     Other OMIVAN Responsibilities.  In addition to providing services for
the main project components, OMIVAN will (i) carry out rehabilitation road
works; (ii) provide assistance to farmers in obtaining credit for construction
of cooperative storage facilities, fruit tree plantations, and modern
irrigation equipment; (iii) operate a nursery to provide 6 to 8 million
seedlings a year; (iv) provide soil disinfection services to greenhouse
producers; and (v) carry out land-clearing, land-levelling, and plantation of
windbreaks.
5.17     Staffing.  Forty new staff positions will be created to meet Project
needs: 4 agronomic subject matter specialists, 31 extension agents, and for
the marketing centers, 1 engineer and 4 technicians. No difficulties are
foreseen in recruiting qualified Tunisian candidates for these positions.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the extension agents will be
recruited according to a timetable agreed upon with the Bank.
5.18     Technical Assistance.  The Project will finance 84 man-months of
consultant assistance to OMIVAN in the following fields: (i) One hydraulic
engineer and one civil engineer for a period of 18 months. The consultants
would assist OMIVAN in preparation of tender documents for the pumping station
(para. 4.14 (a)), assist in bids evaluation, in drafting of contracts and
eventually in supervision of the works. They will also help to review the
studies of irrigation infrastructure works prepared during Project
preparation, where necessary complete these studies and prepare required
tender documents; (ii) one irrigation extension specialist for a period of 30
months. The specialist will review the OMIVAN irrigation extension
organization and will prepare training in water saving up-to-date irrigation
methods and will train the extension agents in this speciality; (iii) one
marketing and cooperative management specialist for a period of 12 months.
This specialist will assist OMIVAN to promote a regional marketing cooperative
and to help to define its organization and management. He will also advise
OMIVAN in all matters regarding cooperative management in order to improve
OMIVAN's technical assistance to the existing service cooperatives;



- 32 -
(iv) one management consultant for 6 months to assist OMIVAN in planning the
Project organization and implementation. He will be called upon to prepare a
detailed critical path schedule for the realization of all the Project
components. This analysis will help to monitor in detail the Project
implementation. The recruitment timetable will be as follows: consultants
referred to under (i) at the earliest possible date, consultant (ii) by June
30, 1983, consultant (iii) by December 31, 1983; and consultant (iv) by
December 31, 1982. Assurances to this effect and that the consultants will be
acceptable to the Bank were obtained at negotiations.
D. Nebhana: Assistance to Farmers
5.19     Improvement of Extension Services.  Production development in the
Nebhana component relies mainly on the development and intensification of
off-season fruit and vegetable production which will result from the increase
in and better use of available irrigation water resources. Farmers will
require strong extension services to improve their crop rotation and cultural
practices and to learn more efficent irrigation techniques. In order to
improve and to intensify assistance to farmers who face specific technical
problems, four subject matter specialists will be recruited for irrigation,
fruit trees cultivation, production under greenhouses and pest control. They
will liaise with specialized Government agencies, provide training to the
extension staff and be available for prompt action in the fields when
requested by extension agents. The extension staff will be expanded to make
each agent responsible for about 55 farmers.
5.20     In addition to refresher courses which will be regularly organized by
the subject matter specialists prior to critical periods of the growing
season, special care will be given to training for the extension staff
responsible for greenhouses management. The extension training will benefit
from the support of existing institutions, especially the Nebhana research
station (SAN) which conducts applied research in horticultural techniques for
the Nebhana area. Some specialized training will be carried out abroad for
staff responsible for cooperative and packing station management as well as
for selected agricultural and civil works technical personnel. The activities
related to the assistance to farmers will continue to be carried out by
OMIVAN's development division in cooperation with specialized Government
agencies and with SAN.
E. Safety of Dams
5.21     Covenants for safety inspection and adequate operation and
maintenance of the Sidi Salem Dam, recently completed on the Medjerda River
and which will supply the Lower Medjerda Valley, are provided in Loan
1431-TUN. Similar covenants concerning the Sidi Messaoud and Oued Mellegue
dams are provided in Loan 1068-TUN. In addition, it is understood that the
Government will consult with the Bank before undertaking any works to raise
the Sidi Messaoud Dam.
F. Cost Recovery
Irrigation Network
5.22     General Policy and Practice.  The current policy of the Tunisian
Government is that the financing of major irrigation infrastructure works is
the responsibility of the state, but that beneficiaries should contribute
toward the financing of the distribution network, including both its capital



- 33 -
and recurrent costs. The principle of farmer contributions toward the
"downstream" investments in public irrigation perimeters was formulated in
Land Reform Legislation, first applied in 1963. Benefitting farmers are
charged a betterment levy based on investment costs per ha, soil type,
proposed cropping pattern, and socioeconomic environment. Recurrent costs are
financed, at least in part, from volumetric water charges, generally collected
in advance. Finally, as a supplement to the revenues generated by these
direct charges on farmers, the Government collects a 3% sales tax on all
marketed agricultural produce. These tax revenues go into the national
treasury to help finance Government budgetary expenditures; increased tax
revenues from incremental production are an important contribution toward
recovery of public sector outlays for irrigation.
5.23     In practice, it has been estimated that, taken together, these three
revenue sources--betterment levies, water charges, and agricultural sales
taxes--recover roughly 40% of total costs of existing irrigation networks
based on a study of system in northern Tunisia/l. Recovery of recurrent
costs alone is considerably better, but often falls quite short of 100%. The
Bank's objectives in this area are to urge the Tunisians to improve their
overall recovery performance progressively, first by achieving 100% recovery
of operation and maintenance costs, subject to farmers' ability to pay. Since
the relative income levels of both the Medjerda and Nebhana farmers place them
above the national per capita income average, full recovery of operation and
maintenance costs in accordance with Tunisian government policy was seen to be
an appropriate target to achieve in the time-frame of this project.
5.24     Investment Cost Recovery under the Project.  Betterment levies in the
Medjerda valley are fixed at 25%-70% of the value of irrigable land, with an
average assessment of about D 80/ha payable over 10 years at 5% interest. All
farmers owning more than 2 ha are obliged to pay these to partially recover
past investments. As of September 1981, nearly D 300,000 in contributions
have been paid, representing over 90% of payments due as of that date.
Betterment levies against past investments in developing the Nebhana network,
substantially higher than in the Medjerda because of much higher investment
cost per ha and high value of land, average about D 650/ha for coastal farmers
and D 270/ha for inland farmers, payable over 10 years at 5% annual interest.
Payment of these contributions has not yet begun, pending completion of land
consolidation measures expected in mid-1983. Payments will begin to be due in
1984-85, following a two-year grace period allowed by law.
5.25     Since Tunisian Government policy does not provide for direct charges
on farmers to recover investment costs of up-grading existing irrigation
network, the capital costs of these works incurred under the Project will be
financed from the Government budget.  However, a substantial share of these
costs (an estimated 34% in Nebhana, for example) will be recovered from
farmers through revenues from the sales tax on incremental production expected
under the project. In addition, continuing the practices followed under Loan
1068-TUN, farmers will make direct payment for 50% of the costs of installing
PVC pipes between the hydrants and farm plots, and will finance, by own
contributions and through BNT credit, all investments in on-farm irrigation
equipment.
/1 The CNEA study (1979) carried out under Loan 1431-TUN.



- 34 -
5.26     Operation and Maintenance Cost Recovery under the Project.
Volumetric charges for irrigation water in Medjerda are D 0.011/m3I. At
present levels of water consumption this rate covers only about 50% of current
operation and maintenance costs of the distribution network estimated at
D 1,154,000/year (in 1980). With the Project, however, water consumption is
expected to increase by over 50% to 95.2 Mm3, while OMVVM expects no
significant real increase in operation and maintenance costs. Together with
projected sales of 12.4 Mm3 to SONEDE, the increase in water consumption
will permit full recovery of operation and maintenance costs by 1987 at the
existing water charge.
5.27     Farmers in Nebhana pay water charges set at D 0.012/m3, currently
the highest rate charged in public irrigation perimeters in Tunisia. At
current levels of water consumption (estimated at 14 Mm3/year), these fees
are sufficient to cover only the costs of operating the secondary and tertiary
network, excluding any pumping costs. At present, operation and maintenance
costs of the whole irrigation network, including all pumping costs, are
estimated at D 380,000 per year. These are expected to more than double with
the Project to D 835,000, largely as a result of a substantial increase in the
volume of water to be pumped. To fully recover these costs, water charges
would have to be increased to D 0.030/m3, assuming a doubling of water
consumption to 28 Mm3/year under the Project.
5.28     Given the profitability of irrigated fruit and vegetable production
in the Nebhana area and the importance of maximizing water use efficiency,
water charges could and should be substantially increased. However, a water
charge of D 0.030/m3 was considered politically impractical, since it would
Sc considerably higher than water fees being charged elsewhere in Tunisia and
would represent such a steep increase in absolute terms over the present
level. The Bank and the Government agreed, therefore, that, for the purposes
of determining the level of water charges, the costs of pumping seepage losses
at the Sidi Messaoud dam would be excluded from the costs to be recovered
through water charges. On this basis, water charges would have to increase to
about D 0.023/m3 (in 1981 prices) to recover distribution costs (excluding
pumping at the dam), which would amount to approximately 72% of total
operation and maintenance costs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government will progressively increase water charges in Nebhana to reach
this level by December 31, 1987. Furthermore, an understanding was reached
that by September 30, 1982, the Government would reach agreement with the Bank
on the amount and timing of the first increase.
Marketing and Extension
5.29     Operating expenses of the fruit and vegetable marketing facilities,
including transportation, will be recovered by charging farmers fees for
services. Costs for the Medjerda marketing services have been estimated at D
0.0035 per kg for grading and packing of fresh vegetables, and D 0.022 per kg
(excluding amortization costs) for fruits in cold storage. These costs could
be fully recovered by farmers through reduced losses and higher prices for
produce. Fees to be charged for cold storage facilities will be set at levels
competitive with private facilities operating in Tunis.  Costs of operating
the grading and packing centers for export production in Nebhana will be
charged to farmers under terms of a management agreement between the
Government and the operator of the facility (see para. 6.15).



- 35 -
5.30     Annual operating costs and amortization of the milk collection
centers in Medjerda in December 1981 prices would equal D 0.012/kg of milk
collected by year 6. In order to encourage farmers to market their milk
through OMVVM, cost recovery for milk collection will be implemented
progressively, starting at the collection fee now charged by OMVVM (D
0.006/kilo), increasing to D 0.012/kg by the sixth year of operations).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that fees will be charged to farmers
using the marketing and milk collection facilities at a level sufficient to
cover operating and maintenance costs at full development (expected from start
of operations) and that fees will be progressively increased to cover
amortization. Full recovery will be achieved when the facilities will be
operating at 90% of capacity.
5.31     Extension services provided by OMIVAN and OMVVM will continue to be
subsidized through transfers from the Covernment budget. Incremental costs of
extension under the Project will total D 165,000 per year at Project
completion.
G. Accounts and Audits
5.32     Both Project implementing agencies have satisfactory accounting
systems and keep adequate separate Project accounts under the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project. Both agencies have their accounts currently audited
by independent auditors in addition to the usual control made by the Ministry
of Finance. Under the Project, OMVVM and OMIVAN will keep again independent
Project accounts and independent accounts for the Project Processing Centers
and Milk Collection Centers and these accounts as well as the general accounts
of the agencies will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. OMVVM and OMIVAN will also retain until one year after the Closing
Date, all records evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals
were requested from the Loan Account for the purpose of works carried out by
force account and will enable Bank's supervision missions to inspect these
records, and the auditor's reports would include a separate opinion in respect
of these expenditures. Assurances were obtained at negotiations as to the
above and that the annual reports of the agencies, the Project accounts, the
accounts of Processing Centers and Milk Collection Centers, together with the
auditors reports will be sent to the Bank within eight months after the end of
each fiscal year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Production
Medjerda
6.01     Production increases in the Medjerda Project area will result from an
extension of vegetable acreage, new fruit production on 475 ha, and by yield
increases for all crops through better water management, extension of
irrigation, and a 15% increase in input use. These developments will be
promoted by providing more secure marketing outlets and improved access roads
and extension services under the Project.
6.02     Total production in the Medjerda area is expected to increase by
nearly 50% by full development in year 10. The largest production increase
will be in vegetables, which are expected to reach 185,000 t by year 10,
accounting for over 70% of total production. A substantial increase in milk
production (10,000 t) is also expected. Industrial crops promoted by the
Ministry of Agriculture will be introduced on about 400 ha on the larger
farms. (See Annex 3 for detailed tables).



- 36 -
Nebhana
6.03     Agricultural production in the Nebhana area will feature a continuing
shift out of olive production into higher-value vegetables and fruits for
which the area is ideally suited. Increased supplies of irrigation water made
possible by Project investments will permit more intensive cultivation of
off-season vegetables in the coastal perimeters, including production under
greenhouses, and establishment of new fruit plantations on 590 ha in the
inland perimeters. Vegetable yields are expected to increase, on the average,
by 30% over 10 years. To protect against soil exhaustion and over-supply of
markets, a more diversified crop rotation will be introduced.
6.04     Under the Project, substantial production increases in Nebhana are
expected for off-season tomatoes, cucurbits, green beans, and green pepper,
and some seasonal vegetables such as fennel and cauliflower. Total vegetable
production is expected to nearly double over ten years, from an estimated
57,000 t at present to over 102,000 t. Production of new fruit trees at full
development in year 15, will be 9,000 t (see Annex 3).
B. Marketing and Prices
Medjerda
6.05     Based on past trends and projected income and population growth in
Tunisia, domestic consumption of vegetables is projected to grow at 5% p.a.
over the next five years. Vegetable production in the Medjerda is estimated
to grow at a somewhat lower rate, approximately 3.7% p.a. Since total
vegetable production in Tunisia is projected to increase over the same period
at roughly the same rate, all vegetable production increases arising from this
Project would be readily absorbed by domestic demand without increasing
Medjerda's share of the national market (currently 13%). Approximately 90% of
tomato production will be for processing, the demand for which has outstripped
supply leading to large imports in 1980. Demand for industrial tomatoes is
expected to continue to be strong, growing at a projected 7% p.a.
6.06     Fruit production in Medjerda is projected to grow at an estimated
8.4% p.a. Past trends in domestic fruit consumption (excluding exported crops
such as dates, cit.rus, and apricots) suggest that local demand will increase
at approximately 9% p.a. While total production throughout Tunisia of
peaches, pears, and apples (the principal fruit crops in Medjerda) is
projected to grow slightly faster--9.4% p.a. through 1986--Medjerda's
proximity to the Tunis wholesale market puts it in a favorable position to
increase its share of the national market if consumption does not keep pace
with production increases.
6.07     The processing and cold storage facilities to be built under the
Project will provide an attractive marketing channel for part of the increased
fruit and vegetable production by assuring farmers a remunerative price and
providing reliable collection and transportation services. The balance will
be marketed through existing channels, either by farmers themselves or through
private traders. Except for industrial tomatoes, which will be delivered to
processing factories located in the Medjerda Valley, virtually all products
will be marketed at the Tunis wholesale market.
6.08     Similarly a ready market exists for milk, since Tunisia currently has
to import approximately 50% of its national milk consumption. An estimated
75% of additional milk produced under the Project will be marketed through



- 37 -
the milk collection centers to be developed under the Project, which will in
turn sell primarily to STIL as well as to smaller private plants for milk
pasteurization and yoghurt and cheese production. The balance will, as is
currently the case, be marketed primarily by private traders, selling directly
to consumers in Tunis.
Nebhana
6.09     Internal demand for off-season vegetables has been strong, increasing
at an average annual rate of 15% since 1977/78. Growth in demand for most
fruits has also been strong (para. 6.06). These growth rates reflect rising
per capita incomes and rapid urbanization. These factors are reinforced by a
large and growing tourism sector, which includes largely European vacationers
in early spring and late fall, providing an additional market for vegetables
during the off-season. Situated near a major complex of tourist hotels in
Sousse, the Nebhana area is particularly well-placed to fulfill demand from
this market.
6.10     Since these trends are expected to continue, domestic demand for
off-season vegetables and fruits is likely to remain strong, permitting most
of the production under the Project (over 75%) to be absorbed by the domestic
market without substantial increases in Nebhana's market shares. The balance
will be exported to markets in Europe and neighboring North African
countries. Local demand projections and export targets are given below for
principal crops.
6.11     Sales of off-season tomatoes have grown at an estimated 10% p.a.
since 1978. If future consumption is projected somewhat below this rate,
Nebhana's production will begin to substantially exceed its current market
share by 1986/87 (year 5), creating a surplus available for export.
Exportable quantities are projected to reach a maximum of 14,000 t by
1991/92. Since a substantial share of Nebhana's production can reach European
markets before mid-May, when tariff measures effectively close the import
market, no difficulty is anticipated finding export markets for the relatively
small quantities projected for export. Even at very conservative estimates of
growth in EEC off-season import demand, Nebhana's maximum export target will
represent less than 10% of the projected increase in demand by 1991/92. For
off-season cucurbits, Nebhana has a relatively minor share of the national
market (5.6%). If Nebhana doubles this share, local demand could absorb most
of the increased production. A small surplus (1,000 t) will be available for
export in 1986/87, reaching a maximum of 4,000 t in 1991/92. This amounts to
less than 3% of EEC's imports of melon alone from non-member countries in
1979. Virtually all green pepper production will be destined for export since
the domestic market is limited. Maximum exportable volume will be 2,800 t by
1991/92, or less than 7% of the projected increase in principal EEC countries'
import. Domestic demand for green bean is also limited, and most of the
projected production will be destined for export. A growing market exists in
France for "extra-fine" and "fine" quality beans in November-December and in
April, and in the rest of Europe for lower quality "Bobby" beans for January
to April during the break in Spanish production. Exportable surplus will
range from 100 t in 1984/85 to 3,000 t in 1991/92. Production of other
vegetables is projected to increase at approximately the same rate or more
slowly than past consumption (10% for off-season hot pepper, and 5% for
seasonal vegetables) and therefore is expected to be absorbed by local
demand. Domestic demand for fruits has been growing at an estimated 9% p.a.,
with consumption of some stone fruits (e.g. peaches) increasing slightly



- 38 -
faster. Total production of stone fruits in the Nebhana area is projected to
grow at 12% p.a. over the next ten years, generating an exportable surplus of
2,000 t beginning in 1986/87 and reaching 3,000 t in 1991/92.
Nebhana: Projected Export Targets
(tons)
Export Targets as
Share of Projected
Increase in EEC
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1991/92   Imports (1980-91)
Tomatoes                    -      2,000     7,500    14,000              8.5%
Cucurbits                   -          -     1,000      4,000             6.3%
Green Pepper              200        600     1,500      2,800             6.9%
Green Bean                100        400       950      2,000             9.7%
Apricots, Peaches           -          -     2,000      3,000             5.7%
Total                 300     3,000    12,950    25,800
6.12     Projections of exportable surplus have been estimated based on
conservative assumptions about future growth in domestic consumption of
off-season vegetables and fruits and Nebhana's projected market share. If
continuing growth in per capita income, population, and tourism is able to
sustain past consumption growth rates, the amounts available for export may be
1-^?pr than those projected. It is expected that most of these exports will be
destined for European markets, principally France, with whom Tunisia enjoys
preferential trade agreements and close proximity. These advantages will
enable Tunisia to secure a position in the competitive European market in
spite of its limited export experience. Furthermore, these export amounts
shown in the table above represent a minor fraction of the projected increase
in EEC import demand and will have little effect on exporting countries'
existing market shares. Success in finding marketing outlets for these small
quantities will depend less on Tunisia's having any distinct competitive
advantage over alternative suppliers than on its development of effective
commercial links with established importers. In light of the future entry of
Spain and Portugal into the EEC, however, Tunisia will be seeking new markets
as well. It is particularly well-placed to tap additional markets in its
neighboring North African countries. A convention was signed with Algeria in
1981 for potato exports, and the Government is planning to sign another in
1982 for a wider variety of vegetable exports. The Government will,
furthermore, benefit from technical guidance arising from a proposed
Bank-financed research study on the impact of an enlarged EEC on fruit and
vegetable exporters in the Mediterranean region. This study, which is
tentatively scheduled to be completed by September 1983, will focus on Tunisia
as a case study and assist the Government in identifying and developing a
range of marketing options.
6.13     Production for the domestic market will be marketed through three
market outlets available for Nebhana producers; the Tunis wholesale market,
which accounts for 50-65% of marketed off-season produce; the rapidly growing
regional market at Sousse; and the smaller local market at Bekalta. Marketing
of production will be handled increasingly through farmer service cooperatives.



- 39 -
6.14     Existing channels in Tunisia for exporting high-value off-season
vegetable are limited. Given the small quantities available for export in the
past, little investment in necessary facilities and commercial expertise has
been made and no export marketing structure has evolved to coordinate
production and marketing strategies. The Government has appointed the
Interprofessional Association for Vegetables (GIL) and Citrus and Fruits
(GIAF) to (i) define a national export strategy and handle Government
negotiations with importing countries; (ii) assist private exporters in
finding market outlets and negotiating contracts; and (iii) provide market
intelligence to export traders. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government will cause GIL and GIAF to continue to execute the above functions
and, no later than December 31, 1983, to discuss with the Government and the
Bank the proposed export strategey, and will soonest thereafter execute the
recommendations resulting from these discussions. In addition, to facilitate
production planning and provision of export services, the Government will
encourage and promote the creation of a regional export cooperative to serve
farmers in the Nebhana area. The regional cooperative would be a federation
of the base-level service cooperatives, which already exist in the area, and
would, with assistance from OMIVAN, provide technical assistance to member
farmers in adapting production calendars, meeting quality standards, and
planning cropping patterns. Ultimately the cooperative could offer members
export marketing services on an exclusive basis, selling produce either to
private exporters or contracting directly with importers. The cooperative
would, based on contracts concluded in advance with private traders, contract
with its member cooperatives to buy specified tonnages at guaranteed minimum
prices.
6.15     The grading and packing facilities to be financed under the Project
to handle production in the Nebhana area will be constructed under the
supervision of OMIVAN (see para. 5.15). Once constructed, the facilities will
be leased to a cooperative or a private enterprise under a management
contract. The contract will be awarded to a bidder who can offer adequate
management and financial guarantees, which should include, at a minimum, fees
to cover amortization of the equipment over 10 years. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
Prices
6.16     Domestic prices for fresh fruit and vegetables are determined by
market forces, resulting in sharp fluctuations throughout the year depending
on seasonality of supply and demand. During the off-season, when supplies are
limited, vegetable prices rise as much as nine times the lowest price during
the peak production period. For farmers who can meet this off-season demand,
production is highly remunerative. Prices of crops which are produced during
only one season (e.g. winter vegetables and some fruits) or whose supply is
fairly evenly distributed throughout the year (e.g. potatoes) show
considerably less monthly variations.
6.17     Average prices for some off-season crops have fallen in real terms
since 1978 as supplies have increased. This relative price decline is not
surprising, since the off-season market is relatively new in Tunisia and
initial off-season price levels were unrealistically high. Even if the past
price decline were to continue, producer margins would remain substantial.
However, the rate of price decline has slowed in the last two years for some
crops and been reversed for others, suggesting that, prices for off-season



- 40 -
produce may have begun to stabilize. Yearly price variation for seasonal
vegetables and fruits have generally been less pronounced, and prices have in
most cases been stable in real terms since 1978.
6.18     Export prices of fruit and vegetables destined for sale in European
markets also show considerable monthly variations, with the highest prices
paid during the off-season, particularly during those months when import
supplies are limited. As exports of off-season production from several
Mediterannean and African countries have increased in recent years, these
prices have tended to stabilize and, for some crops, declined. Prices of
green beans and green pepper on the major French wholesale market (Rungis)
have remained stable or fallen in real terms except during certain months
(February for green beans and March for green pepper). A steady increase in
demand for tomatoes, on the other hand, has contributed to rising prices
during most of the off-season (February, March, and May). Prices of apricots
have shown a strong increase.
6.19     Milk and industrial crops (e.g. tomatoes for canning) are subject to
Government-controlled prices.  Since the retail price of canned tomatoes is
fixed by Government, processing firms tend to offer farmers only the minimum
procurement price established by Government (D 0.035/kg in 1981). When prices
for fresh tomatoes rise above this price, farmers sell their produce fresh at
the wholesale markets. Milk prices are fixed both at production and at
retail.  Processors must buy fresh milk at D 0.180/1 and sell processed milk
at D 0.200/1.  The producer price is substantially above the world market
price; however, the low retail price does not encourage processors to develop
adequate collection services. As a result, milk producers sell either through
unofficial market channels, often at higher prices, or to small private cheese
and yoghurt factories at the official price. The fact that these latter
buyers have no difficulty procuring milk at the official price suggest that
the current producer price provides adequate production incentive for milk
producers.
C. Farm Incomes
Medjerda
6.20     Farm models have been established to reflect the current and future
cropping pattern under the Project. The smallest cover less than 3 ha and
only grow vegetables; while the others, 5.5 ha, 15.6 ha and 34 ha, have a
variable ratio between vegetables, forage, fruit trees and cereals. These
models represent 47%, 32%, 13% and 8% respectively of the 3,762 Project
farmers.
6.21     At full development, farm incomes for the smallest farmers will
increase from D 360 (US$720) to D 995 (US$1,990) and their returns to family
labor will reach D 5 (US$10) per work day. For the medium and large farms,
income increases will be greater in the extension area; medium-size farmers
(5.5 ha) will see their incomes increase to D 2,735 (US$5,470), and incomes of
large farmers (34 ha) will increase to D 7,200 (US$14,400). The significant
increase for the latter group reflects the introduction of industrial crops.
Income increases for the medium and large farmers in the presently equipped
area will be somewhat less, given their higher incomes from more intensive
irrigated agriculture at present.  Medium farmers will see their incomes



- 41 -
increase to D 3,040 (US$6,080) and incomes of large farmers will increase to D
6,140 (US$12,280). Relative income increases are higher for the medium and
large farms than for the small farms in both the existing perimeters since
small farms are already being cultivated intensively. Intensification of
production on larger farms would generate additional benefits in the form of
substantially increased requirements for hired labor. (See Annex 4 for
technical coefficients and projected net returns.)
Nebhana
6.22     Present and projected farm income have been estimated based on farm
budget analyses made for a 1-ha vegetable farm representing roughly 3,500
coastal producers, and a 3-ha fruit farm representing roughly 500 inland
producers.  At current farmgate prices, present net farm income for vegetable
producers is estimated at D 1,105 (US$2,210), and D 980 (US$1,960) for fruit
growers.
6.23     As a result of increased water availability with the Project,
permitting an increase in area under greenhouse production and more intensive
cropping of open-field vegetables, farm income of vegetable growers will
increase over ten years to D 3,145 (US$6,290) with the Project, in contrast to
D 1,760 (US$3,520) without the Project. Net returns to family labor will be
nearly twice the returns expected without the Project. Fruit growers will be
able to double their area under fruit, replacing olive and seasonal vegetable
production, resulting in a projected farm income of D 6,155 (US$12,310) at
full development, in contrast to projected farm income of D 3,100 (US$6,200)
without the Project. Net returns to family labor will be more than double
returns without the Project. (See Annex 4)
6.24     Financial rates of return calculations show attractive returns to
on-farm investments expected to be made by Nebhana producers under the
Project. Vegetable farmers who invest in additional greenhouses and improved
irrigation equipment can expect a 32% rate of return, reflecting increased
productivity of greenhouse cultivation and the value of incremental production
made possible by water savings realized through more efficient water
distribution. The financial rate of return of on-farm investments in new
fruit plantations and modern irrigation equipment on the 3 ha fruit farm is
estimated at 25%, reflecting the high returns to fruit production in
substitution for low-value seasonal vegetable and olive production.
D. Economic Analysis
6.25     Internal rate of return calculations were made assuming a 35-year
project life, which is the expected remaining useful life of the principal
infrastructure works in both the Medjerda and Nebhana irrigation networks.
Economic costs, estimated on the basis of end-1981 prices, included all
investment costs attributable to the Project, incremental operation and
maintenance costs including staff salaries, incremental production costs, and
equipment replacement costs. All capital and recurrent costs to date in the
development of these irrigation systems have been treated as sunk costs.
Conversion factors, as estimated by the Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey
mission in late-1981, were used where appropriate to deduct taxes and
subsidies on investments and production inputs. All labor costs were valued
at the going wage (D 2.2/work-day in Medjerda, D 2.0/day in Nebhana) given



- 42 -
that available agricultural labor in these areas is nearly fully employed at
present and wages paid for incremental labor would have to compete with those
being paid for agricultural and off-farm employment available elsewhere.
6.26     Economic benefits were calculated using economic prices for projected
production. Economic prices for fresh fruit and vegetables were estimated on
the basis of average wholesale market prices after deducting sales taxes and
adjusting transport and marketing costs by the appropriate conversion factor.
Vegetables for which no local market exists and which are destined for export
were valued at their border prices based on average prices on the Rungis
market. Prices for internationally traded goods (wheat, milk, and meat) were
based on world market prices, adjusted where necessary to reflect projected
changes in relative real prices (assumed for wheat and meat in accordance with
World Bank commodity export projections). A separate rate of return was
calculated for the Medjerda and Nebhana components given the differences
between them as to the nature of proposed investments, valuation of
production, and risks.
Medjerda
6.27     Incremental economic benefits in the Medjerda component were
projected assuming, in the with-project case, the cropping pattern on the
newly irrigated lands would reflect the same mix of crops as on the existing
irrigated areas, except for the introduction of industrial crops on the larger
farms. In the rest of the Medjerda area, area under fruit and vegetable
production and yields for all crops will increase reflecting increased water
and input use. Dairy herd development was assumed to increase at 5% per year,
or twice the rate of the past 5 years, as a result of increased forage
production and assured marketing channels for fresh milk. In projecting the
without-project case, it was assumed that the cropping pattern and input and
water use would remain stable reflecting the low production intensities of the
past in the existing irrigated areas and continuing lack of water
availability; further production increases could be expected only for
vegetables, estimated at roughly 1% per year, and for dairy herd development,
estimated at 2.5% per year.
6.28     Based on these benefits and the costs as defined in para. 6.25, the
economic rate of return is estimated at 38%. Given the difficulty of
identifying the incremental benefits of additional investments in an existing
irrigation system, this high return may reflect to some degree spill-over
effects from prior investments. However, it is clear that the relatively
small investments in extending the irrigation network and in extension and
marketing services designed to improve utilization of existing infrastructure
are economically justified. If net agricultural benefits fell by 70%, or if
incremental costs increased by 250%, the Project would still be an attractive
investment with a 10% rate of return.
Nebhana
6.29     Incremental economic benefits in the Nebhana component were projected
assuming, in the with-project case, a shift out cf olive and seasonal
vegetable production into fruits in the inland perimeters and intensified
production of off-season vegetables in the coastal perimeters; without the
Project, the present cropping pattern was assumed to remain stable given
constraints on irrigation water supply. The projections reflect a gradual



- 43 -
decline of the cropping intensity in open-field vegetable production beginning
in year 10 and the phasing out of fruit production beginning in year 30
resulting from the siltation of the Sidi Messaoud reservoir. Yields were
assumed to increase in both the with and without Project projections, but
yields of greenhouse production were assumed to increase more with the Project
due to improved extension and crop rotations.
6.30     Based on these benefits and the costs defined above, the economic
rate of return has been estimated at 28%. This result reflects the relatively
small capital invescment required under the Project and the high value of
incremental production. If net agricultural benefits fell by 50%, or if
incremental costs increased by 110%, the Project would still be an attractive
investment with an economic rate of return of 10%.
6.31     In view of the uncertainty concerning future price trends and export
market prospects for off-season vegetables, sensitivity tests were made to
determine whether the proposed investments in Nebhana would be viable in the
event of a continuing decline in prices. Assuming, to reflect past trends, a
3% p.a. decline of prices of off-season vegetables and fruits over the next
ten years, the Nebhana component would still be justified at an estimated ERR
of 12%. While this scenario of declining prices for all off-season produce is
conceivable in the event of unexpectedly sudden increases in production, a
carefully planned export program would relieve downward pressure on local
prices. If, on the other hand, Tunisia is unable to find export markets for
the quantities projected and the surplus is marketed locally, local prices
could be expected to fall somewhat more rapidly than in the past. Assuming
prices of potential export crops fall beginning in 1986, when significant
levels of exportable surplus are projected to become available, through 1992
at 10% p.a. for the three critical export crops and at 5% p.a. for the others,
the rate of return on the Nebhana component would be an estimated 13%. These
results suggest that, short of an abrupt and major collapse in prices, the
Nebhana project investments are economically justified.  Since farmers in
Tunisia respond quickly to price signals and could be expected to adjust their
cropping patterns to correct any substantial price decline, this scenario is
highly unlikely.
Summary
6.32     The aggregated rate of return for both components is estimated to be
33%, showing the very high economic returns accruing to relatively minor
investments required to increase utilization of existing irrigation
infrastructure. Given the production potential of the Project areas, the
investments proposed in this Project are of high priority in contributing to
Government objectives of self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs and increased
export earnings.
6.33     Other benefits of the Project would include increased agricultural
employment, estimated at 5,200 man-years at maximum development.  Nearly all
of the incremental labor requirements will be met by paid labor, most of which
will come from the depressed highland areas to the west and south of the
Project areas. These increased agricultural employment opportunities would
contribute to the Government's goal of reducing rural-urban migration and
raising rural incomes.



- 44 -
E. Project Risks
Medjerda
6.34     The major risk in the Medjerda Project concerns the degree to which
farmers will make full use of irrigation investments. To date, utilization of
irrigation water has been considerably below estimates made at the time of
appraisal of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. Water consumption has
increased only 10% in the last five years and only 55% of the irrigable area
is currently under irrigation. This has been due to (i) short irrigation
rotations and low delivery flows, (ii) inappropriate on-farm irrigation
techniques and inadequate soil preparation, and (iii) seasonal marketing
difficulties. The danger that these problems would persist has been minimized
by including under the Project provision for improving OMVVM's water
distribution practices, extension coverage, and marketing services. Any major
delay in carrying out these activities would likely slow the rate of increased
water utilization, lowering the Project's rate of return.
6.35     Additional risks are associated with the utilization and management
of the marketing facilities. Since there exist well-established private
marketing channels in the Project area, success of the marketing component
will rest on the degree to which OMVVM can respond to needs of farmers which
are not now being met. It is expected that by offering farm collection
services for small farmers and grading and cold storage facilities which will
bring higher revenues, OMVVM's services will be attractive to producers and
will gradually encourage private traders to provide competitive services.
Efficient management by OMVVM will be essential, and it is expected that
OMVVM's experience in marketing production from its own farm at Bordj el Amri
will enable it to expand its marketing activities without undue risks.
Nebhana
6.36     The principal risks in the Nebhana Project are associated with the
marketing of production.  While the strong domestic demand for off-season
vegetables in recent years is likely to continue, export market outlets will
have to be tapped to avoid excessive downward pressure on prices from
over-supply of the local market. Given the relatively small tonnage of
projected exports, Tunisia's reputation for quality produce, and continuing
demand in EEC markets for off-season products, prospects for finding export
markets for a share of Nebhana production are good. These favorable prospects
rest, however, on the successful establishment of an effective export
marketing structure which can gain the farmers' confidence and meet the
demanding requirements of the EEC market regarding timing and quality of
produce. It is expected that GIL and GIAF and eventually the proposed
regional export cooperative can fill this role, provided it is given proper
management guidance and necessary Government policy support. OMIVAN will
likewise need to provide, in collaboration with GIL, increasingly
sophisticated extension advice to farmers producing for export to ensure that
cropping calendars are accelerated in order to enter export markets during the
periods of highest prices. The Project's marketing and extension components
have been designed to address these needs and, if successfully carried out,
will considerably reduce these Project risks.
6.37     The risk of an abrupt fall in domestic prices for off-season
vegetables cannot be dismissed if the present rate of expansion of area under



- 45 -
greenhouse production continues indefinitely and no export markets are found.
The results of the sensitivity analysis described above (para. 6.31) indicate,
however, that even if prices fell below current levels by more than 30% over
ten years, Project investments would still be economically justified.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) Final distribution of land in Medjerda and Nebhana will be completed
by December 31, 1984 and June 30, 1983 respectively (para. 3.07 and
3.23);
(b) OMVVM will establish an extension training unit, including
appointment of new staff and defining a training program, by June 30,
1983 (para. 4.11);
(c) Government will cause BNT to provide development credit to Project
farmers as may be required (para. 4.31);
(d) Procurement under the Project will be done according to procedures
described in para. 4.33 through para. 4.40;
(e) The full tender documents for the El Bathan vegetable processing
center will be submitted to the Bank for approval by June 30, 1983
(para. 5.02);
(f) An advisory board for the Medjerda processing center will be
established as discussed in para. 5.04;
(g) Government will arrange that the new wholesale market in Tunis
contains a space in the "producers' carreau" which will be reserved
for OMVVM farmers (para. 5.05);
(h) The qualification of the manager of the processing center in El
Bathan and the cold storage center in Mornag to be employed 3 months
before the respective facilities start operations will be acceptable
to the Bank (para. 5.08);
(i) The extension agents to be recruited by OMVVM and OMIVAN will be
recruited according to a timetable agreed upon with the Bank (paras.
5.08 and 5.17);
(j) OMVVM will provide water distribution during 16 hours/day through the
year and promote night irrigation in peak irrigation periods through
24-hour water service (para. 5.12);
(k) DEGTH will transfer progressively to OMIVAN according to a timetable
to be agreed upon between the Bank and the borrower the operation of
main and secondary pipelines, as well as operation and maintenance of
the seepage pumping stations and tube wells (para. 5.14);
(1) OMIVAN will employ consultants to assist in the Project
Implementation as discussed in para. 5.18;



- 46 -
(m)  OMIVAN will progressively increase water charges in the Nebhana area
to assure full O&M cost recovery of the water distribution network
and pumping stations at Bled Sisseb and Ain Bou Mourra by year five
of the Project (para. 5.28);
(n)  Fees will be charged to farmers using the marketing and milk
collection facilities at a level sufficient to cover operating and
maintenance costs from start of operations. The fees will be
progressively increased to cover amortization and full recovery will
be achieved when the facilities will be operating at 90% of capacity
(para. 5.30);
(o)  OMVVM's and OMIVAN's accounts be kept and audited as discussed in
para. 5.32 and that audited annual reports of OMVVM and OMIVAN
together with audited Project accounts and accounts of the processing
centers and milk collection centers would be sent to the Bank within
eight months of the end of each fiscal year;
(p)  Government will cause GIL and GIAF to continue to execute their
functions discussed in paras 6.14 and no later than December 31,
1983, to discuss with the Government and the Bank the proposed export
strategy and will soonest thereafter implement the recommendations
resulting from these discussions (para. 6.14);
(q)  The Government will lease the export grading and packing facilities
to be constructed in the Nebhana area to a cooperative or another
operator under a management contract to be awarded on the basis of
appropriate management and financial guarantees (para. 6.15).
7.02     Recommendation.  With the above assurances and agreements the
proposed Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$22.0 million to the
Republic of Tunisia for a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Proîect Cose and Schedule of Expendit-re
1983                     1984                     1985                     1986                     1987                    Total
Me.derda Component                      LC       FE   Total    LC         FE   Total    LC         FE   Total    LC         FE   Total    LC         FE   Total    LC         FE   Total
------ (D'0O)0------0 -------0(D'0)-------  -------(D'Ô0  ------  ------(D'Ô000)------   ------(D   000------   ------(D '                 -----=
I. Irrigation Infrastructure
Fq.ipneet of 2,330 ha            202     108      310     404     218      622     505      272     777     505      272     777   404       218     622  2,020   1,088    3,108
Improvements on 500 ha            65      35      100     100      50      150      90       50     140       -        -       -      -        -       -     255      135      390
laprovenent Access koads          35      15       50      65      35      100     130       70     200     160       90     250      -        -       -    390       210      600
Subtotal                    302      158     460     S69      303     872     725      392  1,117      665      362  1,027    404       218     622  2,665   1,433    4,098
Il. Marketing Pacilstios  /a
El dathon Station                125     155      280     140      180     320        -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -     265      335      600
Mornag Cold Storage               55      80      135      65       95     160        -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -     120      175      2Q5
'lilk Collection Centers          20      30       50      35       55      90      25       40      65      30       40      70     25       45      70     135      210      345
Subtotal                    200     265      465     240      330     570       25      40      65       30      40      70      25      45      70     520      720    1,240
111. BIildinîs
Training Centers                  25      20       45      35       30      65        -       -       -        -       -       -      -        -       -      60       50      110
OMVVM Facilities                  65      55      120     105       80     185      65       55     120        -       -       -       -       -       -     235      190      425
Subtotal                     90       75     165     140      110     250      65       55     120        -       -        -      -       -       -     295      240      535
IV. Vehicles & Fquipment
Fxtens.o-  Services               10       15      25      10       20      30       -        -       -        -       -       -      -        -       -      20       35       55
Tractors OMVVM                    45      85      130      45       85     130      50       85     135      45       90     135      -        -       -     185      345      530
Subtotal                     55      100     155      55      105     160       50      85     135       45      90     135       -       -       -     205      380      585
V. Or-PFarm Developrent C-redit)
Eqoopoont                         30      60       90      35       60      95      35       60      95      35       60      95     30       65      95     165      305      470
.ivestoclk                        40     380      420      40     380      420      40     380      420      45      375     420     45     375      420     210  1,890    2,100
Stables                           35      20       55      35       20      55      40       20      60      40       20      60     40       20      60     190      100      290
Fruit Trees Plantations           60        5      65      60        5      65      55       10      65      60       10      70     60       10      70     295       40      335
Subtotal                    165     465      630     170      465     635     170    4170       40     180      465     645    175      470     645     860  2,335    3,195
VI. Incremental Operational Expennes
OMVVM Extension Personnel         30        -      30      40        -      40      40        -      40       50       -      50     50        -      50     210        -      210
Extension Center Operation         5        -       5       5        -       5        5       -       5       10       -      10       5       -       5      30        -       30
Fruit b Vegetable
Stations (1)                      -       -        -      70        -      70       -        -       -       -        -       -      -        -       -      70        -       70
Milk Collection  (Y25Y3)           -        -       -      10        -      10      20        -      20        -       -       -      -        -       -      30        -       30
Sobtotal                     35        -      35     125        -     125      65        -      65       60       -      60     55        -      55     340        -      340
VII. Fello-ships                          5        -       5       -        5       5        5       -       5        -       5       5       -       5       5       10      15       25
Total Base Cost                         852  1,063   1,915   1,299   1,318   2,617   1,105   1,042  2,147          980      962  1,942    659       738  1,397  4,895   5,123   10,018
Physical Contingencies /b                65       60     125     100       85     185      87       57     144       74      49     123     43       26      69     369      277      646
Price Contiogencies                     153      187     340     380      381     761     440      407     847     477      463     940    386      352     738  1,836   1,790    3,626
TOTAL MEDJERDA COST                 1_070   1,310  22380   1.779  10784   3563   1.632   1.506  3138   1531   1,474  2,905 1088   1,116  2,204  70_00  7090   14090
/a Including veohicles and subsidiary equipment.
/b 10% on all investments uoder 1-V.
/c 1982: 8.5%, 1983-85: 7.5%; 1986-87: 6%.
(35E)



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBEHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project Coot and Schedule of Expenditure
1983                    1984                     1985                    1986                     1987                   Total
Nebhana Component                      LC       FE   Total    LC        FE   Total    LC         FE   Total    LC         FE   Total    LC        FE   Ttal       1C       FF   Total
------(DI'000)------  ------(D'OO  I)------  ---   -(D'O)                00)------  ------(D'0()o------  ------((D'00)------  ------(D'o0o)------
I. Irrigation Infrastructure
Pumps & Regul. Equipmnot    177          328     505     128     239      367       -       -        -       -       -       -      -       -       -     305      567      872
Dater Saviog Systems              65     115     180     150     285    435       140     255     395     205      385     590    110     200     310     670  1,240    1,910
Dater Flou Cootrol System          -       -       -      60     110      170      65     125     190       65     115     180      -       -        -    190      350      540
Capacity Increase Mais Pipe    -           -       -      65     115      180      80     150     230                                                     145      265      410
Dater Distribution Systems   90          165     255      90     160      250      30      60      90      100     190     290    115     220     335     425      795    1,220
Drainage Improvements            60       30      90      60      30       90      65      35     100      65       35       -      -       -        -    250      130      3P0
-cceos R1ud Improvements          10      10      20      25      15       40      45      25      70       S0      25      75    50       25      75     180      100      280
Subtotal                   402      848  1,050      578     954  1,532       425     650  1,075      485      750  1,235    275      445     720  2,165  3,447    5,612
Il. Marketing Facilities
Sahline Station la              110      210     320     110     210      320       -       -       -        -       -       -      -       -       -    220       420      640
Sbikha Station                     -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -      20       30      50      -       -       -      20       30       50
Subtotal                    110     21D     320     110      210     320       -        _       -      20      30      50      -        -       -    240    450        690
-I. Support Services Facilities
N-rsery                          80       40     120                                   --       -       -       -                                    -      80      40      120
Soil Disinfectatio- UDit          15      25      40       --                                   -       -       -                                    -      15      25       40
S.btotal                     95      65     160        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -      -        -       -      95      65      160
IV. Vehicles & Euipoont
Vehicles                          10      20      30      10      25       35       -       -        -       _       _       _      _       _        -      20      45       65
Equipment                         20      30      50      15      35       50      20      35      55      _-                    -                   -      55     100      155
Subtotul                     30      50      80      25       60      85      20      35       55       -       -       -       -       -       -      75     145      220
V. On-Farm  Deve1opment (Credit)
Irrigation Equipment             20       30      50      15      35      50       35      65     100      50     100      150     85     155     240     205     385       590
Cooperatives Centers (6)          35      15      50      35       15      50      35      15      50       30      20      50      -       -        -    135       65      200
Vehicles for CC (12)               5       5      10        5              10       5       5      10        Ù      10      10      -       -        -      15      25       40
)rchards Plantation               25       5      30      45        5      50      70      10      80       70      10      80    45        5      50     255       35      290
Sulbtotal                    95      55     140     100       60     160     145      95     240      150    140      2"0    130     160     290      610     510   1,120
VI. On-Fanm Works (OMIVAN)
Land Levelling & Olive            15      10      25      15       10      25      20      10      30       15      10      25     15      10       25      80      50      130
Windbreaks Plantation              5       -       5       -        -       -       O       5        5       -       -       -              -        5      10       5       15
Subtotal                     20      10      30       15      10      25      20      15       35      15      10      25     20       10      30      90      55      145
VIl. Docresental Operatio-al Expeoses
OMIVAN Personnel (5Y)             50       -      50      80        -      80     110       -    110      110        -    110   110         -     110    460         -      460
OMIVAN Vehicles 6 Mech. (5Y) 20            -      20      20        -      20      20       -      20        -       -       -      -       -        -      60       -       60
Marketing (IY salaries)            -       -       -      35        -      35       -       -        -       -       -       -      -        -       -      35       -       35
Nursery (IY deficit)               -       -       -      15        -      15       -       -        -       -       -       -      -       -        -      15       -       15
Subtotal                     70       -      70     150        -     150     130       -     130       il       -     110    110        -     110     570       -      570
VIII Training                            20       -      20      20        -      20      20       -      20       20       -      20     10       -       10      90       -       90
IX. Techoical Assistance               40     210      250      20     125     145       10      60      70       5       3I      35      -       -       -      75    425        500
Total Base Cost                        892  1,248  2,120   1,018   1,419  2,437          770     955  1,625      805      960  1,765    545      615  1,160  4,010  5,097    9,107
Physical Contingencies /b                67      97     164      73     123      196      47      70     117       52      79     131     30      46      76     269    415        684
'rice Cootingencies                    156      224     380     302     416      718     309     349     658     392    450       842   321      365     686  1,480  1,804    3,284
TOTAL NEBHANA COST                   1,095   1,569   2,664   1,393  1,958  3,351   1,126  1,274  2,400  1,249  1,489  2,738    896  1,026  1,872  5,759  7,316  13,075
,/a Ail equipnent including vehicles.
/b 10% on all investmseots under I-VII.
!c  1982: 8.5%, 1983-85: 7.5%; 1986-87: 6%.
35E)



ANNEX 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements /1
IBRD Fiscal Year                                             Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                                               at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
FY83
March 31, 1983                                                      0.3 /2
June 30, 1983                                                       0.5
FY84
September 30, 1983                                                  1.0
December 31, 1983                                                   1.5
March 31, 1984                                                      2.5
June 30, 1984                                                       3.5
FY85
September 30, 1984                                                  4.8
December 31, 1984                                                   6.1
March 31, 1985                                                      7.4
June 30, 1985                                                       8.7
FY86
September 30, 1985                                                 10.1
December 31, 1985                                                  11.5
March 31, 1986                                                     12.9
June 30, 1986                                                      14.3
FY87
September 30, 1986                                                 15.5
December 31, 1986                                                  16.7
March 31, 1987                                                     17.8
June 30, 1987                                                      18.9
FY88
September 30, 1987                                                 19.9
December 31, 1987                                                  20.9
March 31, 1988                                                     21.5
June 30, 1988                                                      22.0
/1 This schedule assumes that the Bank Loan has becomes effective in December
1982.
/2 Front-end fee on Bank loan.



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Medjerda - Production Volume and Value
Total
PYO       PYl      PY2       PY3     PY4      PY5      PY10   Increment    %
Volume
'-------------------------- -----------------      '000   tons   ------------------------------------- - - -
Vegetables             133.0    137.3    142.2    147.7    153.1    157.8    183.3      50.3       38
Cereals                  6.3      6.2      6.9       7.3      8.0      8.7      8.7      2.4       37
Trees                    6.8      7.3       7.8      8.4      9.0      9.6      9.6      2.8       41        1
Industrial Crops         -        -        -         6.4     11.2     16.0     16.0     16.0      100       O
Livestock/milk          24.6     26.7     28.7      30.8     32.8     34.9     34.9      10.3      42
Livestock/meat           1.5      1.6       1.7      1.9      2.0      2.2      2.2      0.7       47
Total volume              172.2    179.1    187.3    202.1    216.1    229.2    254.7       82.5      48
Value
-- - - - - -- - -- - - - -- -- - - --- - - - - - -- '0 0 0   D                --- - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - --- - - - -- - -- --
Vegetables           7,980    8,238    8,532    8,862    9,186    9,468   10,998    3,018          38
Cereals                504      496      552       584      640      696      696      192         38
Trees                1,360    1,460    1,560    1,680    1,800    1,920    1,920       560         41
Industrial Crops         -        -        -       109      190      272      272      272        100
Livestock/milk       3,985    4,325    4,649    4,990    5,314    5,654    5,654    1,669          42
Livestock/meat         900      960    1,020    1,140    1,200    1,320    1,320       420         47
Total Value            14,729   15,479   16,313   17,365   18,330   19,330   20,860    6,131          42  H
(0003E)                                                                                                   w<~



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Medjerda Total Production / Production Totale de la Medjerda
(ton/tonnes)
Production                       PYO        PYl        PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5       Production
Vegetables                                                                                       Maraîchage
Old Perimeter              129,192   133,299   138,001   142,663   147,290   151,236              Ancien Périmètre
Extension                    3,800      3,963      4,199      5,006      5,844     6,596          Extension
Total        132,992   137,262   142,200   147,669   153,134   157,832                     Total
Cereals                                                                                           Céréales
Old Perimeter                5,156      5,156      5,949      6,346      7,138     7,932         Ancien Périmètre
Extension                    1,109      1,045        981        917        853        791         Extension
Total          6,265      6,201      6,930      7,263     7,991      8,723                 Total
Trees                                                                                            Arbres
Old Perimeter                6,774      7,284      7,855      8,426      8,997     9,568          Ancien Périmètre
Extension                        -          -          -          -          -          -         Extension
Total          6,774      7,284      7,855      8,426     8,997      9,568                 Total
Forages                          Expressed in livestock production (see Annex 8)                  Fourrages
Exprimé en production animale (cf. Annexe 8)
Industrial Crops                                                                                 Cultures Industrielles
Extension                                   -        160      6,400    11,200    16,000           Extension
(0003E)
ED >



'1'UNI SI A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF TIF
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Medjerda Total Acreage / Total des Superficies Cultivées de la Medjerda
(ha)
Crop Acreage               PYO        PYI        PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5         Superficie des Cuiltures
Vegetables                                                                                        Maraîchage
Old Perimeter            9,404      9,484      9,618      9,752      9,886    10,020          Ancien Périmètre
Extension                  300        300        316        362        409        456         Extension
Total           9,704      9,784      9,934    10,114    10,295    10,476                         Total
Cereals                                                                                            Céréales
Old Perimeter            3,966      3,966      3,966      3,966      3,966      3,966         Ancien Périmètre
Extension                  897        809        721        633        545        459         Extension
Total           4,863      4,775      4,687      4,599      4,511      4,425                      Total
Trees in Production la                                                                              Arbres Fruitiers
en Production /a             I
Old Perimeter            1,642      1,717      1,796      1,878      1,964      2,054         Ancien Périmètre
Extension                  343        380        417        454        491        527         Extension
Total           1,985      2,097      2,213      2,332      2,455      2,581                      Total
Forage                                                                                             Fourrage
Old Perimeter            6,155      6,155      6,155      6,155      6,155      6,155         Ancien Périmètre
Irrigated Extension         84        131        179        226        273        318         Extension Irriguée
Non-irrigated                                                                                  Extension
Extension                578        516        455        393        331        271            Non-irriguée
Total           6,817      6,802      6,789      6,774      6,759      6,744                      Total
Industrial Crops                                                                                  Cultures Industrielles
Extension                    O          0         40        160        280        400         Extension
/a  Except olive, citrus, almond and wine
(0003E)



TUNISIA
STAFF APRRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nebhana - Production Volume and Cropped Area
Total
PYO     PYl    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5          PYIO   Incremental
Volume ('000 tons)
Off-Season Vegetables:
Greenhouse                    8.7    11.0   13.9   16.8   19.2    29.1    35.5           26.8
Open-Field                   12.7    11.5   10.2   13.0   19.9    25.3    46.1           33.4
Seasonal Vegetables              6.8      4.7    3.0    4.1    7.3        9.1    20.9       14.1
Intercropped Vegetables         28.2    28.2   26.4   25.6   22.7    18.2          -       (28.2)
Fruit (New Plantation)           -        -       -      -       0.2      0.6      4.9       9.0 /1
TOTAL VOLUME                      56.5    55.4   53.5   59.5   69.3    83.2   107.4           55.1
Cropped Area (ha)
Greenhouse Vegetables          230      290    360    430    515        750      805       575
Open-Field Vegetables;
Coastal Perimeters         810      710    610    810  1,360   1,595   2,685    1,875
Inland Perimeters          300      240    150    100        50       25        -      (300)
Intercropped Vegetables        1,580   1,580  1,480  1,430  1,280   1,080            -   (1,580)
Fruit                            790      850    940  1,090  1,235   1,325   1,385           590
TOTAL CROPPED AREA             3,715   3,670  3,540  3,860  4,440   4,775   4,875    1,160
/1   At full development in year 16.
(0003E)



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OD THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Medjerda: Farm Models - Key Technical Coefficients at Full Development
Fruit    Forage    Industrial
Model Farms                     Vegetable    Cereal    Tree        Forage       Crops        Total
Old Irrigated Perimeter
Type  1.6 ha                    1.60-     -           -          -            -          1.60
Type  5.5 ha                   2.70        0.50       1.50       1.00         -          5.70
Type 15.6 ha                    3.75       2.30       3.00      5.30          -         14.35
Type 34.0 ha                   4.30        9.60       6.40       9.60         -         29.60
New Irrigated Perimeter
Type  1.6 ha                    1.60       -          -          -            -          1.60
Type  5.5 ha                    2.50       0.50       1.2        1.5          -          5.70
Type 15.6 ha                    3.50       3.00       3.50      4.60          -         14.60
Type 34.0 ha                   4.30        3.00       6.20     11.00          8.50      33.00
Yields  (ton/ha)                   +38% /a      2       +12% /a   +43% /b         40
/a  Based on the average increase of a basket of vegetables, fruit trees.
/b  Expressed in livestock production.
Less than      3 to 8 ha   8 to 20 ha   over 20 ha   Total
3 ha
Number of Farmers
Old irrigated perimeter            1,670          1,132           438          260        3,500
New irrigated perimeter              108              75           32           47          262
Total                     1,778           1,207          470          307        3,762
(0003E)



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Medjerda: Return per farm and Mandav/Revenu par ferme et journée de travail
(D)
Gross    Production                    Net        Man/Days   Net return
Return/    Costs /a    Charges /b  Return    journées   per man/day
Revenu    Coûts de                     Revenu    de travail revenu net
Brut      Production                                          par journée
de travail
Old Perimeter/Ancien Dérimètre
Type  1.60 ha       PYO            1,520           421             8        1,091           262         4.1
PYio          1,944           496            10        1,438           288          5.0
Type  5.50 ha       ?YO            3,454        1,135           311         2,008           557         3.6
?y1o          4,881         1,529           314        3,038           600          5.1
Type 15.60 ha       PYO            6,717        3,585           699         2,433           600         4.0
PYIO          9,611         4,565           699        4,347           600          7.2
Type 34.00 ha       PYO           11,350        7,747         1,496         2,107           600         3.5
Pylo         16,687         9,054         1,496        6,137           600         10.2
Extension
Type  1.10 ha       PYO              537           133            4           360            94         3.8
PYIO          1,336           331            10          995           198          5.0
Type  ;.50 ha       PYO            2,419           897           98         1,424           393         3.6
PYIO          4,314         1,355           215        2,735           600          4.5
Type 15.60 ha       PYO            5,307        2,027           249         1,803          600          3.0
PYIO          9,002         4,376           592        4,034           600          6.7
Type 34.00 ha       PYO            8,525        5,870           623         2,032          600          3.4
PYlO         20,854        12,288         1,371        7,195           600        12.0
/a  Including hired labortMain-d'oeuvre journalière incluse.
/b Contribution to investment and credit/Participation aux coûts d'investissement et crédit.
(003E)



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
NEBHANA/MEDJERDA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Nebhana: Farm Budgets Summary Table
Year 10
With         Without
Farm Type                         Present       Project        Project
I. VEGETABLE FARM
(1 ha with greenhouse)
Land Use (ha)                                0.95             0.90          0.95
Greenhouse: Net Area /a                   0.10             0.20          0.10
Cropping Intensity                       100%             120%          100%
Open-Field Vegetable: Net Area            0.20             0.70          0.20
Cropping Intensity                       100%             130%          100%
Olive Trees: Net Area /b                  0.65             -             0.65
Net Returns (DT)
1. Gross Revenues /c                     2,550            5,855         2,880
2. Production Costs                        890            2,640         1,040
3. Fixed Charges /d                        475               80            80
4. Net Returns                           1,185            3,135         1,960
Per Man-day of Family Labor               4.3             11.4           6.4
II. FRUIT FARM (3 ha)
Land Use (ha)                                3.00             3.00          3.00
Fruit Trees                               1.50             3.00          1.50
Olive Trees                               0.30             -             0.30
Open-Field Vegetables                     0.60                           0.60
Fallow                                    0.60             -             0.60
Net Returns (DT)
1. Gross Revenues /c                     2,635            8,300         4,790
2. Production Costs                      1,580            1,910         1,590
3. Fixed Charges /d                        180              235           100
4. Net Returns                             875            6,155         3,100
Per Man-day of Family Labor               1.9             12.7           6.2
/a After deducting uncropped area occupied by greenhouse.
/b Includes intercropped vegetables.
/c At current farm-gate market prices.
7- Includes repayment of credit for investment in greenhouse (for Type I
farm), fruit plantations (Type II farm), on-farm irrigation equipment,
and annual payment of betterment levy.
(0003E)



ORGANIZATION OF THE OFFICE DE LA MISE EN VALEUR
DE LA VALLEE DE LA MEDJERDA
(OMVVM)
General Manager
Inspection                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Program-ming and
lnspecti..                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Budget Monitoring
Administrative             Agricultural                 Budget and               Trend and                                        Maintenance and                                        Studies and
and Financial             Development                   Statict                Programming                                          Land Tenure C.ii Works
Department                Department                    Section                Department                                          Department                                           Department
Personnel                                           Veteintay                                          Personnel nd                                     Exploitation Section                                      HdaudPdlogy
Section                                                   
I 0< L a ~~~~~~~~~k                         I            u                        recI rd.                                                                                                                        SectPilon>
Prdcin                                         Coordi'nating
Equipment a testoc                                                                                        Accounting                                       Enplo,tation Section
Consetrction                                                                                                                                                      East
SectionManeacadStis
._|   Fess Collection   |             |       ~~~~~~        ~~Plant                        |       SUPPIYl                  Division      r          Maintenance                  Division    r     |      Equipore.t    |t
Sees Collection                                        Protection
_|  Section                                              setf,                CredP and |--|y             Section l t=-                                           Section                                    -          Section
-|  Section  l                             -|        Section      l                            -|        Sect on       l                                                 1                               -|        Section
Accouning                 Production                A    iculture                                _           reditoPn                                                                     Pro_                    n       t
section                                                                                                                         Bordj on
Division ecionto
Budget                                           Vegetable and                                                                                                                                                      ddMrnag  TeChnI Bor,hng
Section                                          Industriel Crop                                         Sect o                                                e                                                   Section
Treusnry                   Tebourba                  Research and               Exploitation                                        Lan  _eor                                            Prehnze    ogrceAccoung
Section ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~nt Reio  El Mande Develumentectio
Management  El Mornaghîa  Division
Pmc  Devation                                              Prooduacti
Section                       O          ~           MhIn  aDvlpontScio                                                                                                                                             eto
e'   ~ ~  ~ ~ akeigDivisionoagon
an  Doua,e1 Bey                                                                                                                           Cana~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~old Bsa"k-ti4n



ORGANIZATION OF THE OFFICE DE LA MISE EN VALEUR DU NEBHANA
Board
General Manager
I   Vehicles and Ecquipment SectionL                                  1                                    j         Coordinating Corrittee
IBRD/OMIVAN
| Deputy General Manager
Administrative and Financial                Hydraulic and                         Development                        Greenhosses Division                    Statistics, Studies
L..            Division                     Rural Engineering Division                     Division                                                            and Programming Division
Financing                            Ne. Works                           Cooperative and                                                              S         Uni
Section                              Section                           Marketing Section                                                             Statistics Unit
Personnel                         Exploitation and                           Sapply                                                                    Stadies Unit
Section                         Maintenance Section                         Service
Collection and                                                                 F,inancial                               I                               Monitoring and
Claims Service                                                                 Service                                  i                              Programming Unit
Monastir Workshop                                                        Training, Animation and                          I                                 Credit Unit
Monastir Central                                                            Tuniso-Belgian                                                                                                                                1
Store                                                                      Project                                  tn
S. A. N.                                                                                                                                 I
!----------------------------- ------
Kairouan Regional    Mahclia Regio..l               Monastir Ragion al Managemeng                                                  oseRg.          aaen.
K agoanRgnaMhdaRioa                                                          Monastir                 Sfax Greenhoases Regiona1 Engineer      Sousse GehossRegionlMnalEgement
Management                            Management                   Greenho.ses Regional Engineer                                             o
Fadhloun                              Chorbane                                                                                                      A       .e.ee
Perimeter                             perimeter                          Bekalta Perimeter                                                          Akouda Perimeter
Sbikha                               Mahdi.
Perimeter                            Perinmeter                         Bembla Perimeter                                                          Chott Maria Perimeter
Ev vassi
Souassiee                        Moknine Perimeter                                                         Sidi Bo, Ali Perimeter
Monastir Perimeter
Sahline Perimeter
Teboulba Perimeter                                                                                                       reu
Old Teboulba Perimeter                                                                                                         n
Worid Bank-23459



TUNISIA/TUNISIE
Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project / Projet d'intensification de l'irrigation des périmetres de la Medjerda et du Nebhana
Implementation Schedule / Programme des opérations
Year /Année                        PYl                 PY2               PY3                 PY4               PY5
MEDJERDA-/                                                                                                                                MEDJERDAa/
230 ha            460 ha             560 ha             580 ha            460 ha
Extension of Irrigation Network               140 ha             40 ha               __ h60 ha                                            Extension du réseau d'irrigation
140Oha            140 ha             140 ha             140Oha
Improvement of Irrigation Network                                                                                                         Amélioration du réseau d'irrigation
20 km              20 km              20 km              20 km            22 km
Farm Access Road Improvement                                                                                                              Amélioration des chemins d'accès
2
Marketing Centers                                                                                                                         Centres de commercialisation
Milk Collection Centers                                                                                                                   Centres de collecte du lait
2                 3                  2                  3                  2
Mîlk Farm-to-farm Collection Units                                                                                                        Unités de ramassage du lait
Extension Training Center                                                                                                                 Centre de formation de la vulgarisation
24                 15
OMVVM Buildings                                                                                                                           Bâtiments OMVVM
NEBHANAb/                                                                                                                                 NEBHANAb/
Improvement of Pumping Stations                                                                                                           Amélioration des stations de pompage
Improvement of Irrigation Network                                                                                                         Amélioration du réseau d'irrigation
Reservoirs and Equipment                                                                                                                  Réservoirs et équipement
7km               9km
Main Pipe Line Construction                                     87 ha                _            .                       368 ha          Construction du canal primaire
Improvement of Perimeter Enlargement           8 km             20 km              35 km              35 km                35 km          Amélioration des zones extérieures au périmètre
Farm Access Roads Improvement                                                                                                             Amélioration des chemins d'accès
Marketing Centers                                                                                                                         Centres de commercialisation
OMIVAN's Nursery                                                                                                                          Pépinière de l'OMIVAN
On-farm Development                                                                                                                       Travaux d'aménagement des sols
a/ Details in Table 4.1
bJ Detaîls In Table 4.2                                                                                                                                                    rd[x
Worid Bank-23508         w



ANNEX 6
- 60 -
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.  Nebhana Project Preparation Report - "Projet de Réaménagement des
Périmètres d'Irrigation de Nebhana" - OMIVAN/SODETEG, January 1978 -
3 volumes
2.  Nebhana Project Preparation Report - "Projet de Réaménagement des
Périmètres d'Irrigation de Nebhana" - OMIVAN/SODETEG - Revised Report,
June 1981 - 2 volumes
3.  Off-Season Vegetable Export Study "Stratégie, Organisation et Structures
d'Exportation des Produits de Contre-Saison" OMIVAN/CEGOS, April 1981 -
1 volume
4.  Marketing under Nebhana/Medjerda, Second Project, Libert Bou, Consultant,
October 1981
5.  Erosion Control in the Nebhana Basin - Report UNDP/FAO TUN 77/007,
June 1980 - 9 volumes
6.  Analysis of the General Evolution of Nebhana 1973-79 - OMIVAN, December
1979
7.  Vegetable and Fruit Crop Production in the Nebhana Project (Phase II),
Elena Garibaldi (Consultant), May 1981 and October 1981
8.  Medjerda II - Project Preparation Report FAO/CP, July 1981
9.  Reports of the Agriculture Planning Commission for the Preparation of the
VI Plan, Sub-Commission for Vegetables, March 1981, and Sub-Comission for
tree crops, June 1981, Ministry of Agriculture



T U 19 I S I A          \    \                            - T                             /        Med//erre2eOo SeG 2~~~~~~~~~~~~/    JANJOTO 1282I
T UN 1 5 1A                                                                                                            MOIrse~ o
MEDJERDA / NEBHANA                                                                                                                                 y  <t
IRRIGATION  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                               )oke                                                   MEEJEReT
MEDJERDA                                                                                                                      / 21
M0 TO T JE ROT TDTO A80E                        , OTE PTO<TT  I! P Yo                                   E                 f R
«fi3TKAW»IT PROJE0TStLCTTES (11.22TEA 1                                                          j /?    MARSA
OTT8GTA8<e ETTTTSE.GESTATION                                    U-9 ,T/QUE                           oT                     _l      O$
COL STOIT G /282                                                                                                                               TJT/J/   lc
MAIN~~~~~~~~                                  ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NOO  RD X,
81    8002E            ,            JA  R  SJE
TOLOOTE                                                                                                           '-'o~~~~~~B'ECH
--    8GTTLE OTTOT                 [                                                                                  J      'f T-  OLETTE c'Goe
O                                                                       T (,j 8   8   1°   '?   ,4   16  /  '\   ,/   5  ,/   _   4  k    >
DAT O EO RS                                                                                 f                                           O TI TT IJ C R   NTÉ
\\~~~~~~~~~O J\/ EL AMRIqs>
CHOUG11AFA~ ~~~~~~2                          2$ C                                         1,J   <   OftWS 'U A> D    0USI
s g   *;  " 0 d ` : : 0 -;;~~~~~~~~o






IBRD 16134
*8e! As-od
JANUARY 1982
Diverioi D2m                 10°           |f4HOUN                                                               t1030                                                                                              TUNISIA
BC                B-    BC1                                                                                                                                                              MEDJERDA/NEBHANA
iIÇA~~                                                -    Vt ,IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Me'sociil ~~~~~~~~ 'ebr,,~~~~~~0 ~NEBHANA
_/SFB_ |\   Existing Pipeline and Bronches                           36'
36'                                                                                                                                            __________  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~New  Pipeline
41  BIJ MFR1                                 |2\\                                                                                                                                                                Prneping St.it,n to be Modified
WZZ/F/E/ iD                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nes-  Pu.pincg Sttion
*   Heod --e,nor f IriainSectio  o. be M.dîf,ed
t  X #/!J)aMSN Sl/k/HA   /                                         \  I               S/D/ gOZJ Al)s\s_   _            Æ     \C/iOTT MAR/fM                             *        Head renerunîr nf Irrigation  Section
/Mû //6Jha                                                                                     ha                                5                                               Pre'sare BCtH   P'essure Reduc-înt  Tank
bikha  140 ha                                                                              çx '-l                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RRIGATION  SECTIONS
I      Y C 3 \ \       Nnt  Inclded e the  Irr,gotn   Rehabiîltot,on  Pr,.oecn
1-/Ided  e the          Ro h.b.iit.t.on  Prnec `Ln- 1068
TUNi
I  /1      >--- . =é  /                                                \                 <                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soit lofes
O     KILOMETERS  I 0
>   (    /   \   <   <  < K X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M N STIR  
8>   lit-  |              \                                 iz                     /                                t                   rd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ranine   \    
10'
Meo'îtei4onsoeo  SeV,                                          KAIROUAN
OL.Kef                      39 ....  5                                                                                                                                                                                                         èouE//lbA
i  A,eoshnnrnrrrine~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erml
o    , Kona5serine   X            /                      Y                                    v z        =         --                                      \   t                           I                           /   |  Sebk/,o                 4/Oboyham
30   O*//n/  G obes    11 \,o00                                                                                         =                      
.      T   U   N   I   S   16l                                                                                                                                                   V    h-'h'  l{fit*/arcdvenmolssdntê                    <3 g
_Li                                                                                                                                                                                                           lo Ll BYAT  -!6° 30'   a  « YA     10- 30 3 6| ' 3 0 '} tes. w]uddmenton tho  e9P1:t ut; n x/ Z oV do e o 3 3



