Document of               E%
The World Bank                     r L g   
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3291-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN]
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJEC]
April 29, 1982
{ This document bhs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tde performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (DT)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating.  The rate which
is used in the Staff Appraisal Report approximates the current rate. It is:
*                       US$ 1   =   DT  0.50
DT I   =   US$ 2.00
DT 1 million        US$ 2.00 million
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNT      -  National Bank of Tunisia (Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CRDA     -  Regional Agricultural Development Commission (Commissariat
Regional du Developpement Agricole)
DEGTH    -  Directorate for Hydraulic Studies and Major Works (Direction
G4n4rale des Etudes et Grands Travaux Hydrauliques)
GIAF        Interprofessional Association for Citrus and Fruit
(Groupement Interprofessionnel des Agrumes et Fruits)
GIL      -  Interprofessional Association for Vegetables (Groupement
Interprofessionnel des Legumes)
OMIVAN   -  Nebhana Development Agency (Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana)
OMVVM    -  Medjerda Valley Development Agency (Office de la Mise en Valeur de
la Vallee de la Medjerda)
STIL     -  Tunisian Milk Industry Company (Societe Tunisienne de l'Industrie
Laitiere)
.*



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries;              Medjerda Valley Development Agency (OMVVM); Nebhana
Development Agency (OMIVAN)
Amount:                     US $22.0 million equivalent, including a
capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                      17 years, including four years of grace, at an
interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum
Project Description:        The project is designed to increase production and
improve marketing facilities in Tunisia's Medjerda
and Nebhana irrigation perimeters. It consists of
investments in: irrigation infrastructure; farm
access roads and related structures; fruit and
vegetable processing centers, cold stores and milk
collection centers; buildings, vehicles and
equipment for OMVVM and OMIVAN; credit for farmers
and cooperatives; extension services; training;
fellowships; and technical assistance. About 7,800
farmers would directly benefit, and about 5,200
man-years of additional employment would be
created; this labor would be supplied mainly from
depressed areas of the country. The major risk to
the Medjerda component - underutilization by
farmers of the irrigation and marketing facilities
- should be minimized by project provisions for
improving OMVVM's water distribution practices and
extension and marketing services, as well as by
OMVVM's past experience with marketing. In
Nebhana, a portion of whose production would be
exported, Tunisia's lack of experience in vegetable
export marketing presents a risk. However, the
designation of the Interprofessional Associations
for Citrus and Fruit and for Vegetables (GIAF and
GIL) to promote and coordinate exports, along with
the strengthening of OMIVAN's marketing services,
should help assure success of this component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:               Local        Foreign                Total
-- US $ Million --------------
Medjerda Component
Irrigation Infrastructure/
Road Works                     5.3           2.9                  8.2
Marketing Facilities             1.0            1.4                 2.4
OMVVM Buildings,
Vehicles and Equipment         1.1           1.3                  2.4
On-farm Development Credit       1.7           4.7                  6.4
Incremental Operating
Expenses                       0.7           -                    0.7
Training and Fellowships         -           1/                    1/
Base Cost                     9.8          10.3                 20.1
Contingencies - Physical    0.7             0.6                  1.3
Price        3.7           3.6                 7.3
Subtotal                      14.2          14.5                 28.7
Nebhana Component
Irrigation Infrastructure/
Road works                     4.3           6.9                 11.2
Marketing Facilities             0.5           0.9                  1.4
OMIVAN Facilities,
Vehicles and Equipment, and
On-farm Works                  0.6           0.6                  1.2
On-farm Development Credit       1.0           1.0                  2.0
Incremental Operating
Expenses                     1.1           -                    1.1
Training and Fellowships         0.2          1/                    0.2
Technical Assistance             0.2           0.8                  1.0
Base Cost                      7.9          10.2                 18.1
Contingencies - Physical       0.5           0.9                  1.4
Price         3.0           3.6                  6.6
Subtotal                      11.4          14.7                 26.1
Aggregated
Base Cost                     17.7          20.5                 38.2
Physical Contingencies         1.2           1.5                  2.7
Price Contingencies            6.7           7.2                 13.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST            25.6          29.2                 54.8
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan   -               0.3                  0.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED    25.6 2/         29.5                 55.1 2/
1/ Under $50,000
2/ Including $8.2 million of taxes and duties



- iii -
Financing Plan:                 Local       Foreign               Total
-----     US $ Million --------------
Bank                          -             22.0                 22.0
Government                    21.2           -                   21.2
National Bank of Tunisia
(BNT)                     0.4            7.5                 7.9
Farmers                        4.0           -                    4.0
Total                         25.6          29.5                 55.1
Estimated                                        (Bank FY)
Disbursements:             1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
-----------------US $ Million-----------------
Annual                   0.5     3.0      5.2      5.6     4.6       3.1
Cumulative              0.5      3.5      8.7    14.3    18.9       22.0
Economic Rate of Return:   33 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 3807-TUN, dated April 20, 1982
Map Nos.: 16133
16134



i



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for US$22.0 million equivalent to help finance
a Medjerda/Nebhana irrigation Development Project. The loan, which includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid
over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981. Economic missions
visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects their preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas; although the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and those of
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there are recent promising
indications of new reserves, but it is too early to assess their exact poten-
tial. There is also considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been
made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 112
percent of minimum standard requirements.  The sharp decrease in mortality
rates was not fully compensated by the simultaneous decrease in fertility and
birth rates, despite an active family planning policy pursued by the Govern-
ment.  Therefore, the annual natural demographic growth rate decreased only
slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s. Moreover,
after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by
restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a consequence,
the residential population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981 exceeds the
level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total invest-
ments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
1/ Part I is reprinted from President's Report No. P-3258-TUN of April 5, 1982
for a Sixth Water Supply Project.



-  2  -
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected both mainly because of the slump in European markets. By
contrast, manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy,
phosphate processing, construction, and construction materials, expanded at a
fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, partic-
ularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable
from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than
exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher
post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained
relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of
investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76
to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450 million
per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and private investments
(mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder
was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s
total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service
ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and redistri-
buting domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent to
about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including for social security accounted for 19
percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.0
percentage point of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., while the investment
objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully
met. Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion
of the oil refinery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments,
both foreign and national, exceeded Plan targets.
10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for the Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 76 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not declined.



-  3  -
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The draft Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)
has been prepared and should be discussed by the newly elected Parliament iL'
June 1982. The main objectives are employment generation, export promotion,
and more rapid growth in the three least developed regions of the country
(North-West, Center-West, and South). Sectoral priority is to be given to
agriculture, tourism, and electrical and mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas
sector. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging.
Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields
that recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil
and gas production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual
level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade.
However, barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in
domestic demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a
relative decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the
situation requires immediate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent
ones to be included in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time,
Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The draft Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range
of 5.9 to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate
is in line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports
(tourism, textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compen-
sate for the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to
bear fruit given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to
control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in
terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the external account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the draft Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed
investment rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 26 percent for the
Plan period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant
prices relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct
recent capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation
of investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium manu-
facturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incen-
tive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to offer
free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new projects
in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household
Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient technical and
financial management of the public and private modern sector, the draft Plan
assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an expanded net-
work of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are planned for



-4-
1982); they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors and should
alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public
investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 point~s. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government
recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism,
and improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured
goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 ercent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but increased in some rural zones
in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural perform-
ance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the interior (West)
widened, in part because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as
budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The Government is
using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the largest zones of poverty, with
a view to eradicating them before the end of this century. Reducing the demo-
graphic growth rate is considered an important factor in this endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 22
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could, how-
ever, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving their
relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the
poor and rural groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries.



20.      In the draft Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing
and water supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs
(health, shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (train-
ing). In education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would
provide a nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would
create polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the draft Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive
medicine and nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public sub-
sidized programs will be directed to the neediest population groups. The
housing demand from households above the minimum standard income limit will be
satisfied by the private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at relatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and some
oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.8 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $464 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at one billion dollars per year on average (at present
dollar exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing
half of the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas dis-
coveries, external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export
revenues in 1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely imple-
mentation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic demand,
promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be noted,
however, that the draft Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and credit-
worthiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is to succeed
in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in the
Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have gained
momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities in the
oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing.
Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to about $200 million
in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total investments for
1977-81. The draft Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15 percent of
total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent to an annual
inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks (para. 14) are
expected to play a significant role in this context.



-  6  -
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and skill-
ful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds
to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary policy
changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending. The
Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at the
macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the implementation
of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty-one loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,029.9 million and $70.1
million (net of cancellations) of which twenty-one loans and nine credits have
been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satis-
factory. As of December 31, 1981, overall disbursements amounted to 62
percent of appraisal estimates, which compares favorably with other countries
in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance
and port projects has generally been above the country average, while larger
than average disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural
credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project
specific problems that are being addressed through supervision missions and
sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created or
strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sectors or
subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to; (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth
and distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological
changes and labor productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the
development of basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. An important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian
authorities in the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through
missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program, and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The Bank is
also supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of
domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for the projects it assists.
The latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's
external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 34
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 23 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), 18 percent of total commitments.



-  7  -
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the
least developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities,
increase productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to
employment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In
addition to the proposed project aimed at improving irrigation and marketing
facilities in the Medjerda and Nebhana irrigation perimeters, proposed future
lending would include projects in agriculture, industry, energy, urban
development, education and technical assistance for project preparation.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum export-
ing to a petroleum importing country. A preliminary analysis of this issue
was included in the last Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 3399-TUN of
September 15, 1981). The Plan Review Report, to be issued together with two
sector surveys on agriculture and urban development towards the end of 1982,
will deepen this analysis. Further economic and sector work will include a
review of employment issues, of incentive and pricing policies (in association
with the study on effective protection), of the long-term energy strategy and
of the education, transport, and small scale industry sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 15 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980.  Their share in total debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans from private sources) was
10 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 11 percent. The
share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to
increase to about 14 percent by 1986, and their share in the debt service to
about 18 percent.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Soci6t6 Touristique et Hoteliare RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $11.3
million, as of March 31, 1982. IFC is currently looking into the possibility
of a loan to COFIT, of expansion of a phosphoric acid fertilizer plant and of
a new cement plant in the vicinity of Tunis.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Development
32.      Tunisia's population is about 6.6 million (1980), of which 3.1 mil-
lion live in rural areas. About 13 percent of the population lives at or
below the absolute poverty level ($200 per capita in 1980 prices), of which
45 percent lives in rural areas. While still playing an important role in
Tunisia's economy, agriculture's relative share has declined (24 percent of
GDP in 1972 to 15 percent in 1980) mainly due to a more rapid expansion of
industry, mining and petroleum. Agriculture now provides 35 percent of total



- 8 -
employment, against 50 percent in 1972. Agriculture's share in total invest-
ment, private and public, remained constant at about 14 percent during the
1970s, and its share in total Government expenditures averaged 9 to 10 percent
during this period.
33.      Of Tunisia's total area of 16.4 million ha, land suitable for
agriculture and grazing totals 8.6 million ha. Of this, the cultivable area
covers 5.2 million ha and forests and esparto grass cover 1.2 million ha,
while 2.2 million ha are used for grazing. Out of some 250,000 ha of poten-
tially irrigable land, about 165,000 are irrigated. Fruits (mainly citrus)
and vegetables (mainly tomatoes, peppers and potatoes) are the fastest growing
products of Tunisian agriculture, and production of off-season vegetables
(November-April) under plastic greenhouses, begun in Tunisia in 1975, is
developing rapidly. While Tunisia is a regular exporter of citrus, its
exports of vegetables have been negligible since local demand has almost fully
absorbed production. However, if greenhouse expansion continues at its
present rate, some exports will become necessary to maintain prices at the
local market at a level remunerative to farmers.
34.      A primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-81) was to achieve self-
sufficiency in food, defined as a balanced commodity trade in agricultural
products, by 1981, which implied an average annual real increase of 6.5 per-
cent in production.  The Plan emphasized investment in irrigation, livestock
and farm machinery.  Its ambitious growth target was not achieved, nor was the
goal of self-sufficiency in food, since expanding domestic demand, caused by
population growth coupled with higher per capita income, surpassed production
growth.  However, agricultural value added did grow at 3.1 percent per year in
real terms during the 1970s, compared to 1 percent per year during the 1960s.
While favorable weather was a factor, a major role was played by increased use
of modern inputs, irrigation development, extension of credit facilities to an
increasing number of farmers, favorable agricultural prices and growth of
public sector agricultural investment (40 percent increase in real terms
during the 1970s as compared to the 1960s).
35.      The overall objective for agriculture of the Sixth Plan (1982-86),
currently under preparation, will remain progress towards self-sufficiency
in food. This will involve: i) expansion of field crops like durum wheat,
pulses and sugar beets, requiring increasing use of new technology, princi-
pally high yielding varieties, fertilizers and chemical weed control, and
investments in irrigation infrastructure, tractors and harvesting equipment;
ii) expansion of the livestock subsector, primarily by improving the genetic
quality of cattle through the introduction of high yielding cows from Europe;
iii) expansion and diversification of tree crops; and iv) expansion of the
areas planted in vegetables. Tree crop and vegetable expansion would both
depend substantially on further development of irrigated perimeters. Greater
emphasis would be given under the Sixth Plan to soil and water conservation,
agricultural research and provision of farm input supply facilities. Atten-
tion would also be directed towards improving rural roads which are important
to the timely provision of inputs and marketing for agricultural production.



-9-
Sector Organization
36.      Overall responsibility for agricultural planning and development lies
with the Ministry of Agriculture. Agricultural services are organized at the
provincial level in Regional Agricultural Development Commissions (CRDAs). In
addition, semi-autonomous special development agencies have been created to
handle specific agricultural activities and projects, mainly those concerned
with irrigation or with particular development strategies to be implemented in
well-defined areas. This approach offers advantages for projects where cost
recovery is an important element and/or where integrated project activities
may extend over parts of several provinces. The Medjerda Valley and Nebhana
Development Agencies (OMVVM and OMIVAN) manage the two areas to be developed
under the proposed project, and have responsibility for enforcement of
agrarian reform measures, equipment, operation and maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure, supply of agricultural inputs, distribution and sale of water
for irrigation, and provision of extension services.
Sector Issues Relevant to the Project
37.      Land Tenure.  Major land tenure issues in Tunisia include skewed
distribution of private land, fragmentation of individual farms, lack of land
titles establishing land ownership, lack of security of land tenure for tenant
farmers, a high incidence of absentee land ownership and the tendency for
collectively-owned land to be poorly managed and over-exploited. While these
problems have not been systematically attacked in non-irrigated areas, the
Government has taken measures to correct them in irrigation perimeters by
imposing a maximum and minimum farm size, undertaking land consolidation and
issuing land titles. These measures are generally being well implemented and
redistribution programs underway in the Medjerda and Nebhana areas are
expected to be completed by the end of 1984 and mid-1983, respectively.
38.      Credit.  Agricultural credit is provided primarily by the National
Bank of Tunisia (BNT). The special development agencies also provide
short-term in-kind credit in irrigation perimeters. Major credit issues
include: low loan recovery; lack of agricultural staff at BNT; lack of land
titles for most farms, preventing them from obtaining long-term credit;
centralization of loan decisions, resulting in an excessively long approval
process; lending norms for loans financed by Government funds which do not
adequately reflect either the costs of investments and inputs or the ability
of farmers to contribute equity; interest rates lower than inflation; and
the small number of farmers receiving credit. In Medjerda and Nebhana, credit
coverage is better than the national average (43 percent and 62 percent of
farmers receive credit, respectively, as compared to 10 percent nationally)
and credit recovery is better than the 55 percent national average. The Third
Agricultural Credit Project is addressing priority credit problems (paragraph
42). In addition, legislative action simplifying procedures for obtaining
land titles has resulted in improvements in the provision of agricultural
credit, and the Government is considering other ways to improve the credit
system, including the establishment of a specialized agricultural lending
institution.
39.      Extension.  Agricultural extension in Tunisia is provided mainly
on an ad hoc basis, by the Ministry of Agriculture through the CRDAs and
special development agencies. Irrigated areas tend to be covered more



- 10 -
systematically than others. Extension is generally inadequate because
extension agents spend too much time assisting farmers with credit
applications, collecting statistics and doing administrative work; little
extension effort is devoted to small and medium farmers; the work of extension
agents is not systematic; there is little connection between technical advice
regarding the use of modern inputs and the availability of credit to finance
these inputs; and there is little specialized training for extension agents,
despite the abundance of skilled administrative and technical manpower with
agricultural training in the country. In view of these shortcomings,
Bank-financed rural development and rural roads operations have included
components to improve extension services in project areas. These components
have shown positive results. Due to poor organization and lack of practical
training, extension services in Medjerda are not satisfactory as far as
irrigation and water management techniques are concerned. Although Nebhana
does have a competent and well-equipped extension service, in view of the
small size of land holdings, the use of greenhouses and intensive cultural
practices, and the scarcity of water resources (paragraph 48), more extension
agents are needed and special attention should be given to disease control and
up-to-date irrigation techniques. These problems will be addressed under the
proposed project (paragraph 62).
40.      Vegetable Export Marketing.  Until now, practically all vegetable
production has been consumed locally through a well-established private sector
market. However, as indicated in paragraph 33 above, with the expected
substantial increase in production of off-season vegetables, export of part of
the crop will be necessary. This will be true of part of the Nebhana project
production. These vegetables have an excellent reputation in Europe.
Moreover, export volumes are expected to remain relatively small as compared
to other suppliers like Morocco and Israel. However, in order to successfully
export to the highly competitive European market, an export strategy must be
established. This issue will be addressed under the proposed project
(paragraph 59).
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
41.      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967 and to
date, eleven projects have been approved for a total of $234.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds. They include three irrigation projects - the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project in the Medjerda and Nebhana areas (Loan 1068, $12.2
million of December 1974); the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project, the first
stage of a development program for the northern water resources of the
country, including construction of the major Sidi Salem storage dam on the
Medjerda River (Loan 1431, $42 million of July 1977); and the Southern
Irrigation Project, aimed at rehabilitating oases and creating new date palm
plantations in southern Tunisia (Loan 1796, $25 million of February 1980) -
two Fisheries Projects (Credit 270, $2 million of September 1971, and Loan
1746, $28.5 million of July 1979), a Cooperative Farm Project (Loan 484/Credit
99, $18 million of February 1967, of which $8.8 million was later cancelled),
three Agricultural Credit Projects (Loan 779/Credit 263, $8 million of July
1971, Loan 1340, $12 million of December 1976, and Loan 1885, $30 million of
August 1980), a Rural Development Project for the Northwest Region (Loan 1997,
$24 million of July 1981) and a Grain Distribution and Storage Project (Loan
2052, $42 million of October 1981). The latter two loans became effective on
March 23 and April 2, 1982, respectively. The Bank is also supporting



- 11 -
infrastructure and on-farm investments through two Rural Roads Projects (Loan
1601, $32 million of July 1978, and Loan 2108, $35.5 million, approved by the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1982).
42.      Performance under these projects has been mixed, reflecting the
institutional constraints in the sector. Implementation of the irrigation
projects has been the most satisfactory; performance under the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, the precursor to the proposed project in the Medjerda
and Nebhana areas, is discussed in paragraphs 45 and 47 below. The Rural
Roads Project is progressing on schedule. On the other hand, the First
Fisheries Project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delay and
low loan recoveries for boats. These problems were addressed during
preparation of the Second Fisheries Project and agreement was reached on a
strategy for improving recoveries under the First Project. However, these
recoveries are still below expectations. The Cooperative Farm Project, which
was designed to develop production cooperatives as part of a 10-year national
program of agrarian reform, was delayed by technical, managerial and financial
problems, and then, following the Government's decision not to proceed with
production cooperatives, was revised in 1970 and an amount of $8.8 million
cancelled. The PPAR (No. 968 of January 8, 1976) indicates that at completion
in 1973, most of the project objectives, namely improved productivity,
production, worker incomes and institutional viability, were attained, but
that the objective to eliminate subsistence farming was not achieved. The
First Agricultural Credit Project financed BNT lending for farm machinery,
date palm plantations and dairy development and processing, but was not fully
disbursed until 34 months after the original closing date because Bank Group
funds were onlent at a higher interest rate than Government funds. The PPAR
(NO. 2497 of May 11, 1979) indicates that while the project achieved a good
rate of return, mechanization did not yield the benefits expected, and dairy
processing suffered major cost overruns. This was taken into account in the
Northwest Rural Development Project; farm mechanization was minimized, and
only a small agro-industrial component (milk collection centers) was included.
The interest rate problem was considered in the design of subsequent credit
projects, which call for uniformity of lending terms for credit regardless of
the financing source, but progress on this issue is below expectations. The
Third Agricultural Credit Project, whose loan became effective in June 1981,
is also addressing other priority credit problems: it requires BNT to increase
agricultural staff, establish a staff training program and decentralize some
subloan appraisal and approvals to branch offices. Progress so far has been
slow. The project also requires that starting June 30, 1982, BNT undertake
annual reviews of the adequacy of its agricultural interest rates compared to
price inflation and make adequate proposals for their modification as
necessary.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.      The Government has requested Bank assistance to finance a project
aimed at continued development of irrigation, collection, processing, storage,
extension and credit facilities in the Medjerda and Nebhana areas of Tunisia.
The project was identified during a Bank mission in December 1978. The



-  12  -
Medjerda component was prepared by FAO/CP and the Medjerda Valley Development
Agency (OMVVM). The Nebhana component was prepared by the French consulting
firm SODETEG in collaboration with the Nebhana Development Agency (OMIVAN).
The project was appraised in September/October 1981 and negotiations were
held in Washington from March 30 to April 3, 1982. The Tunisian delegation
was led by the Director of Supervision, Ministry of Planning and Finance, and
included the Presidents Director General of OMVVM and OMIVAN. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3807-TUN, dated April 20, 1982) will be distributed
separately; the main features of the project are summarized in the Loan and
Prcject Summary and in Annex III of this report. Maps showing the location of
areas covered by the project are also attached.
The Medjerda Project Area
44.      The Medjerda irrigation perimeter covers about 32,900 ha in the Lower
Medjerda Valley near Tunis. Average annual rainfall is about 450 mm, more
than half falling during November-February; full irrigation is essential in
the summer, and supplemental irrigation in the spring. Winter temperatures
fall below freezing in inland areas, limiting production of citrus fruits and
off-season vegetables. At present, the land is cultivated in irrigated
vegetables, fruit trees (75 percent irrigated), forage (43 percent irrigated)
and non-irrigated cereals. Tomato production is generally sold to private and
cooperative processing plants at a Government fixed price. Most other
vegetables and fruits are marketed through the Tunis wholesale market.
Because they lack transport and direct access to the Tunis market or storage
facilities, small farmers often have difficulties obtaining remunerative
prices at peak production periods. Some 90 percent of the milk produced is
sold to private merchants and milk collectors who then sell it house-to-house
in Tunis. Only the small remainder is sold to the Tunisian Milk Industries
Company (STIL), which has a dairy facility near Medjerda. Farmers prefer to
sell to private collectors since, unlike STIL, they collect the milk, pay the
farmers at each collection and pay by cash rather than check. However, this
system does not provide dependable collection or sanitary protection.
45.      Although the flow of the Medjerda River varies greatly during the
year, existing dams and distribution systems can irrigate more than 35,000
ha. Water availability will increase with the Sidi Salem dam and water
storage facilities, recently completed under the Bank-financed Sidi Salem
Multipurpose Project. Development of irrigated agriculture in Medjerda
started in 1958, and was largely completed by 1975. The Bank first became
involved in the area in December 1974 by helping finance the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project to repair hydromechanical equipment on the main canal,
replace and repair equipment and small structures for the distribution system
and pumping stations, clean and remove mud from the drainage system, resurface
secondary and farm roads, and provide credit for on-farm development.
Although slower than expected, project implementation was generally
satisfactory and the rehabilitation works are nearly completed. The 32,900 ha
in Medjerda are now, with the following two exceptions, fully equipped with
irrigation and drainage facilities. Some 2,930 ha (including a 600 ha state
farm) were not equipped with tertiary and quaternary distribution networks
because of land tenure issues, which are now being resolved (paragraph 37),
and the distribution network on another 500 ha is inadequate. Also, although
the facilities now exist for irrigation of nearly 30,000 ha, only 17,800 ha
were actually irrigated in 1980, and yields have changed little. Among the



- 13 -
reasons for this suboptimal utilization are OMVVM's policy of limiting water
distribution to certain periods and its inadequate distribution techniques,
and lack of knowledge and experience of up-to-date irrigation techniques by
farmers. These issues will be addressed under the proposed project (paragraph
62). Of the on-farm development components included in the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, the credit program for stables (for dairy cattle),
farm construction and fruit tree plantation was smaller than expected due to
lengthy administrative procedures and the collateral and downpayment
requirements of BNT, and to lack of farmer demand, influenced by low milk
prices and insufficient marketing facilities. As noted in paragraphs 38 and
42 above, efforts are underway to improve BNT procedures. In addition, recent
milk price increases and fruit and vegetable marketing facilities to be built
under the proposed project should increase demand for stables and fruit tree
plantation.
The Nebhana Project Area
46.      The Nebhana project area consists of 14 separate irrigation peri-
meters, covering about 5,000 ha in east-central Tunisia. It includes coastal
and inland sections suitable for vegetable and fruit production, respectively.
Annual rainfall averages 325 mm; full irrigation is essential in the summer,
and water deficits in all other months except January necessitate irrigation
for off-season vegetables and fruits. Due to an extended drought beginning in
1978, total area under production fell significantly from 4,266 ha in 1977/78
to 2,706 ha in 1979/80. At present, over 50 percent of the Nebhana project
area is planted in olive trees, 30 percent in annual crops, mainly vegetables
(hot pepper, potato, tomato, cucurbit, watermelon, bean, pea, onion and
fennel), and 20 percent in fruit trees (apricot, citrus and peach).
Off-season vegetable production under greenhouses has increased dramatically
in recent years. Fruit production is marketed both in Tunisia and for export
through 23 private exporters (including four cooperatives) and the
Government-sponsored Interprofessional Association for Citrus and Fruit
(GIAF). Virtually all the vegetables are marketed domestically, mainly by
service cooperatives or private dealers at the wholesale markets in Tunis,
Sousse and Sfax, or by the farmers themselves at local retail markets. In
Nebhana, some nine service cooperatives with about 2,250 members have been
created to distribute inputs (in collaboration with OMIVAN), market produce
and represent the farmers' interests in dealing with Government institutions.
*          47.       Water resources for Nebhana come from the Nebhana River and one of
its tributaries, Oued Bel Assoud, harnessed by the Sidi Messaoud storage dam
and the Bel Assoud diversion dam, as well as from tubewells at Bled Sisseb and
Ain Bou Mourra.  There are no other readily available resources.   Development
of irrigation facilities in Nebhana began in 1962, and was largely completed
by 1975. The Bank-financed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project was limited in
this area to minor repairs of the main pipeline's hydromechanical equipment,
rehabilitation of farm roads and ditches, provision of individual meters,
land leveling, tree planting, installation of buried pipes to replace ditches
on part of the perimeter, establishment of windbreaks, provision of credit
and strengthening of OMIVAN. The rehabilitation investments are now satis-
factorily completed, and yield increases have been impressive. Credit was
provided under the project for storage basins, sprinkler irrigation, coop-
erative storage facilities and a vegetable grading and processing facility.
Credit demand for basins was less than originally expected, the sprinkler



- 14 -
irrigation component did not develop as envisaged because cropping patterns
adopted by farmers favored the development of low pressure systems (such as
drip and trickle irrigation), and construction of the storage facilities has
taken longer than anticipated. The grading and processing station, which was
to be built and managed by the Nebhana Central Cooperative, did not
materialize, because the Cooperative had neither the technical, financial or
human resources to undertake it, nor the confidence of other cooperatives in
the perimeter. With increased production under the proposed project and
greater use of greenhouses, this station will become critical, and its
construction by OMIVAN is therefore included under the proposed project.  The
funds allocated for it under Loan 1068-TUN will be cancelled.
48.      There are several factors which adversely affect the availability of
water in Nebhana, whose water resources are limited at all times and have been
futher reduced by drought (paragraph 46). The water in the Sidi Messaoud Dam
reservoir is being depleted by evaporation and seepages, part of which are
repumped into the reservoir by a station at Ain Kebrite. This station,
however, operates much under its capacity because of poor design, inadequate
maintenance and corrosion. The wells at Bled Sisseb and Ain Bou Mourra could
also produce more water, but their pumping systems are poorly equipped. The
120 km main pipeline is insufficient to serve the entire perimeter, and at the
farm-level, the water distribution system is inadequate and there are
considerable losses between the hydrants and irrigated plots. Finally, one
area of about 400 ha has drainage problems.
Project Objectives and Description
49.      The major objective of the proposed project is to increase production
of seasonal and off-season vegetables, fruits, meat, milk and industrial crops
in the Medjerda and Nebhana irrigation perimeters, thereby helping achieve
the Government's goal of self-sufficiency in food. This objective would be
achieved by i) providing needed water through extension and improvement of the
irrigation distribution network in both areas, and better mobilization of
scarce water resources and reduction of water losses in Nebhana, and ii)
investing in those areas - access roads, extension services, marketing facili-
ties, on-farm development and credit - where deficiencies have constrained
farmers from making maximum use of irrigation facilities.
50.      The project components in Medjerda would include:
(i) extension of tertiary and quaternary irrigation facilities to about
2,400 ha of privately-owned land not included in previous development
projects, and improvement of the distribution network on some 500 ha
scattered throughout the perimeter;
(ii) improvement of about 100 km of farm access roads;
(iii) construction of and provision of vehicles and equipment for a fruit
and vegetable processing center at El Bathan, including a cold store,
as well as construction of another cold store at Mornag;
(iv) construction and equipment of four refrigerated milk collection
centers, including farm-to-farm collection units and an extension
team to improve milking and milk handling under sanitary conditions;



-  15  -
(v) strengthening of OMVVM through provision of additional extension
staff, an irrigation training unit, fellowships, tractors, stores for
inputs, shelters for agricultural equipment, and offices and houses
for extension staff; and
(vi)  provision of credit to farmers for small-scale mechanization,
development of livestock and fruit tree plantation.
51.      The project components in Nebhana would include:
(i) improved mobilization of existing water resources by improving the
Ain Kebrite, Bled Sisseb and Ain Bou Mourra pumping stations,
establishing a second pumping station at Oued Aich on the other side
of the Sidi Messaoud dam, and continuing experiments to recharge the
aquifer at Old Teboulba through existing wells;
(ii)  reduction of water losses by providing hydrants, pressure and flow
regulators, and water meters and by replacing ditches with pipes over
about 1,100 ha;
(iii) improvement of water distribution by constructing 11 additional
reservoirs, adding 16 km to the main pipeline, and extending and
improving facilities on the 455 ha of perimeter extensions;
(iv)  improvement of drainage on one area of about 400 ha;
(v) improvement of about 95 km of access roads and related water control
structures;
(vi)  construction of and provision of vehicles and equipment for a fruit
and vegetable processing center at Sahline, including a cold store,
as well as construction of a small sizing, grading and packing chain
for fruit at Sbikha;
(vii) strengthening of OMIVAN through provision of two disinfection units
to provide assistance to farmers for greenhouse treatments, a 5 ha
vegetable nursery, equipment for land clearing and leveling and
windbreak plantation, additional extension staff, subject matter
specialists, new staff for the marketing unit, vehicles, equipment,
training, fellowships and 84 man-months of consultant services; and
(viii) provision of credit to farmers and cooperatives for modern water-
saving irrigation equipment, fruit tree plantation, and storage
centers.
Project Cost and Financing
52.      The total estimated cost of the project expressed in end-1981 prices
is $55.1 million, of which $29.5 million is in foreign exchange. Taxes and
duties estimated at $8.2 million have been included, as well as physical con-
tingencies of 10 percent for civil works and equipment. Price contingencies,
totalling about 34 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies, have



- 16 -
been estimated on the basis of price increases of 8.5 percent for 1982, 7.5
percent for 1983-85 and 6 percent for 1986-87 for both the local and foreign
costs. The cost of the 84 man-months of consultant services, all expected to
be foreign, has been estimated at $11,000 per man-month, including travel,
fees and per diems.
53.      The proposed Bank loan of $22.0 million would finance about 75 per-
cent of the foreign exchange cost, representing about 40 percent of total
project cost, for civil works, vehicles, equipment, fellowships and technical
assistance, and the front-end fee of $325,123. The loan would be made to the
Government and passed on to OMVVM and OMIVAN on a grant basis through annual
budget allocations. The balance of the foreign exchange cost, included under
the credit program, would be financed by BNT from various funds at its
disposal, and local costs would be financed by Government budget allocations
to OMVVM and OMIVAN (including incremental operating expenses and working
capital for the processing and milk collection centers and nursery, totalling
$210,000 in 1983, $550,000 in 1984 and then tapering down to $330,000 in
1987), and farmers' contributions. Details of costs and financing are con-
tained in the Loan and Project Summary.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.      With the two exceptions noted below, international competitive bid-
ding (ICB) procedures according to Bank guidelines would be applied for the
purchase of all vehicles and equipment, valued at $17.4 million equivalent
including contingencies. These would be grouped in appropriate bidding pack-
ages. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is lower. The only
exceptions to the application of ICB procedures would be in the case of (i)
contracts under $100,000 which could be purchased under local or international
shopping or local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures already determined to
be satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate cost of all contracts
procured in this manner does not exceed $2.0 million ($1.0 million each for
the Medjerda and Nebhana components), and (ii) NEYRTEC specialized modules,
totalling $0.4 million, which control the water flow to each irrigated section
and which would be bought directly from NEYRTEC SA (France). This equipment
is already in use in Nebhana and is performing satisfactorily. No similar
equipment presently exists on the market. Tender documents for all bidding
packages above $250,000 and for the NEYRTEC equipment would be reviewed by the
Bank, resulting in a coverage of about 80 percent of the total value of all
equipment contracts. Except for minor works, civil works totalling $17.2
million including contingencies would be procured through LCB. Since there
are many contracts scattered throughout the project areas and since these will
be executed over several years, it is not expected that foreign contractors
would be interested. Foreign bidders do, however, have the opportunity to
participate in LCB in Tunisia. The Bank's prior review threshold for civil
works contracts would be $500,000, expected to cover about 80 percent of the
total value of all works contracts. Minor civil works such as land leveling,
upgrading of access roads, drainage improvements and windbreak plantation,
valued at $4.7 million including contingencies, are not suitable for letting
under contract because of access difficulties and would be carried out by
OMVVM and OMIVAN under force account in accordance with OMVVM, OMIVAN and
Ministry of Equipment guidelines which are acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants would be employed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.



- 17 -
55.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of six years
as follows: 35 percent of total expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 65 percent of local expenditures for vehicles and
equipment; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expend-
itures for fellowships and technical assistance; and 100 percent of total
expenditures for the front-end fee. Disbursements would be fully documented
except for civil works executed by force account, for which disbursements
would be made against certified statements of expenditures and the documenta-
ticn would be retained by OMVVM and OMIVAN for inspection by Bank supervision
missions and by independent auditors.
Project Implementation
56.      The project would be carried out by OMVVM and OMIVAN over a period of
five years. Both of these agencies have carried out their tasks under the
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project successfully, and are considered capable of
handling the responsibilities of the proposed project. However, while OMVVM
has consultants permanently on its staff to assist in key areas, OMIVAN does
not. OMIVAN plans to start procedures immediately to hire consultants to help
prepare tender documents, evaluate bids, draft contracts and supervise
works.   Furthermore, assurances were obtained at negotiations that OMIVAN
would hire consultants (i) no later than December 31, 1982, to plan project
management and implementation; (ii) no later than June 30, 1983, to improve
training and extension in water-saving up-to-date irrigation practices, and
(iii) no later than December 31, 1983, to help promote creation of a regional
marketing cooperative and define its organization and management (OMIVAN
Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)).
57.      Designs and Civil Works.  With the exception of the El Bathan pro-
cessing center, project works either have detailed designs or are relatively
small and simple or similar to other structures which already are in operation
in the area. OMVVM and OMIVAN would prepare final designs, handle contracting
and supervision of the principal works, with consultant assistance as
required, and directly execute minor irrigation, drainage and road improvement
works. The El Bathan processing center is practically identical to the center
which will be built at Sahline, for which detailed designs exist, and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that tender documents for it would be
submitted to the Bank for approval no later than June 30, 1983 (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph A.3(l)). Operation and maintenance of
irrigation works upstream of secondary canals is presently the responsibility
of the Directorate for Hydraulic Studies and Major Works (DEGTH).  However,
because DEGTH has widespread responsibilities all over the country with
priorities which do not necessarily coincide with those of the Nebhana
perimeter, assurances were obtained at negotiations that DEGTH would
progressively transfer to OMIVAN, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory
to the Bank, the operation of main and secondary pipelines, and the operation
and maintenance of pumping stations and tubewells (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02, and OMIVAN Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
58.      Operation of Marketing Facilities.  As noted in paragraph 44 above,
accessibility and reliability of marketing facilities has been a constraint
to development in Medjerda, especially for small farmers. In Nebhana, with



-  18  -
increased availability of water resources under the project, existing market-
ing facilities would be insufficient to handle growing production. The col-
lection and processing facilities to be built under the project are designed
to overcome these constraints in both areas. In addition, the storage facili-
ties to be provided would allow farmers to sell over a longer period and
thereby help avoid seasonal price fluctuations. It is important that these
facilities be well managed. The processing and cold storage centers at El
Bathan and Mornag would initially be supervised by OMVVM, which already has
experience from marketing the production of its own farm at Bordj el Amri.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, no later than three months
before the start of their operations, OMVVM would employ managers for these
centers, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (OMVVM
Project Agreement, Section 2.06(b)). Fellowships for training would be
provided to managerial staff. The El Bathan center would collect and process
produce, which farmers would then sell either directly or through OMVVM's
sales agent at the new Tunis wholesale market. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would take all necessary measures to reserve
suitable space for farmers at the market (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
Assurances were also obtained that, in order to involve farmers in the
marketing operations and allow them to monitor all operations and
transactions, a supervisory and advisory board including five farmers chosen
from all potential users and two OMVVM staff would be created six months prior
to the center's start of operations (OMVVM Project Agreement, Section
2.06(a)). After the start-up period of the center, it is expected that
farmers would create a service cooperative to take over its operation. The
milk collection centers and collection units would also initially be managed
by OMVVM. This component of the project would (i) permit milk collection at
farm level, with weekly payments in cash, (ii) guarantee a regular outlet for
milk at any season and (iii) ensure a farmgate price consistent with that paid
by the dairy industry. It is expected that the collection centers would be
leased or sold to the milk industry when production and higher fresh milk
prices create conditions justifying such a step.
59.      Nebhana's production under the project is expected to be largely
absorbed domestically and marketed at Tunis, Sousse, Sfax or Bekalta.
However, especially in the later project years, an exportable surplus will be
produced and, at full development, about 25 percent would be exported. The
Sahline processing center would provide marketing facilities for the Nebhana
production and be operated either by the regional marketing cooperative which
will be created with consultant assistance (paragraph 56) under the project or
by a private operator. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, upon
its completion, the Government would lease the center on the basis of a
management contract which is satisfactory to the Bank (OMIVAN Project
Agreement, Section 2.08). Fellowships for training would be provided to
managerial staff. OMIVAN's marketing unit would be strengthened under the
project to provide support to the center, and the regional marketing
cooperative would provide technical assistance to member farmers in adapting
production calendars, meeting quality standards and planning cropping
patterns. In view of Tunisia's limited experience in the export market to
date, it is also important that attention be given to export marketing. The
Government has designated the Government-sponsored Interprofessional
Associations for Vegetables and for Citrus and Fruits (GIL and GIAF) to define
a national export strategy and handle Government negotiations with importing



-  19  -
countries, assist private exporters in finding market outlets and negotiating
contracts, and provide market intelligence to export traders. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that GIL and GIAF would present their strategy for
export marketing to the Government and Bank for review no later than December
31, 1983, and that the Government would promptly implement the recommendations
resulting from this review (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
60.      Land Tenure.  As noted in paragraph 37 above, land redistribution
programs are underway in both the Medjerda and Nebhana irrigation perimeters.
Since these measures are important to assure optimal use of irrigation
facilities, assurances were obtained at negotiations that land distribution
would be completed and provisional titles granted no later than June 30, 1983
in Nebhana and December 31, 1984 in Medjerda (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
61.      Credit.  In view of the importance of credit, particularly to small
farmers, assurances were obtained at negotiations that BNT would make credit
available to farmers under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03). Initially, subloans would be based on BNT's
existing interest rates of 6 percent to small and medium farmers, and
production and service cooperatives, and 7 percent to commercial farmers.
This credit falls under the annual review process established under the Third
Agricultural Credit Project, which provides a formula to determine the
adequacy of interest rates, with a view to providing a positive margin based
on inflation and covering BNT's operating costs and provisions for bad debts.
These reviews would culminate in recommendations to be adopted by BNT which
would ensure the economic and financial viability of BNT's agricultural
lending program. The first review is scheduled to be held by June 30, 1982.
62.      Extension Services and Water Use.  Production development in both
project areas would depend on expanded and improved extension services.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that new extension agents would be
hired in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Project
Agreements, Section 2.10). In Medjerda, an irrigation training unit for
extension agents would be established within OMVVM's Agricultural Development
Department. This unit's managers would receive fellowships for special
training abroad in training programming and management. The unit would manage
a training center on one of OMVVM's farms, receive special equipment for field
training in irrigation, provide one to two week sessions in theoretical and
practical issues and short refresher courses in the field during the growing
season, and regularly monitor and support extension agents in the field.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this training unit would be
established, with staff and a work program satisfactory to the Bank, no later
than June 30, 1983 (OMVVM Project Agreement, Section 2.09). With this
training, the extension agents would be able to encourage greater use of
inputs and cultivation of new crops, as well as promote improved water
management and greater use of irrigation facilities. A more efficient program
of regular field visits to all farms would also be established. Finally, in
order to support the extension agents' encouragement of greater water use,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that OMVVM would distribute water for
at least 16 hours per day at all times and promote night irrigation at peak
irrigation periods through 24-hour service (OMVVM Project Agreement, Section
2.07). In Nebhana, OMIVAN's extension activities would be carried out by its



- 20 -
Development Department. Extension services would be strengthened to provide
farmers with assistance to improve crop rotation and cultural practices, and
use more efficient irrigation techniques. Four subject matter specialists in
irrigation, fruit tree cultivation, greenhouses and pest control would be
recruited to train extension agents and help them in the field. These
specialists would organize refresher courses prior to critical periods of the
growing season, and special care would be given to training in greenhouse
management.
63.      Cost Recovery.  The current policy of the Tunisian Government is that
the State is responsible for financing major infrastructure works, but that
beneficiaries should contribute to financing the capital and recurrent
operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of the distribution network. O&M costs
are recovered through volumetric water charges. In Medjerda, farmers
currently pay DO.011/m3 for irrigation water. With an expected 50 percent
increase in water consumption and minimal increases in O&M costs under the
project, this rate would permit full recovery of O&M costs by 1987, which is
considered acceptable. In Nebhana, farmers currently pay DO.012/m3 for
irrigation water, the highest rate charged in public irrigation perimeters in
Tunisia. Because much of the additional water to be provided in Nebhana under
the project would have to be pumped, 0&M costs would increase substantially.
Assuming a doubling of water consumption under the project, it is estimated
that water charges would have to be increased to DO.023/m3 in constant terms,
in order to fully recover O&M costs for the distribution network, and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that water charges would be increased
progressively in order to achieve full O&M cost recovery for this network by
December 31, 1987 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07 and OMIVAN Project Agreement,
Section 2.07). An understanding was reached that by September 30, 1982, the
Government would agree with the Bank on the amount and timing of the first
water rate increase. Given the profitability of irrigated fruit and vegetable
production in the area, the required increases are well within the ability of
farmers to pay.
64.      As regards recovery of capital costs under the project, this would be
achieved in both areas through a 3 percent sales tax on incremental
agricultural production. This tax would recover over 30 percent of
incremental capital costs in both Medjerda and Nebhana. In addition, farmers
would make direct payment for 50 percent of the costs of installing pipes
between the hydrants and their farm plots, and would finance by their own
contributions and credit all investments in on-farm irrigation equipment.
65.      Operating expenses, including transportation, of the processing and
milk collection centers and cold stores would be recovered by charging farmers
fees. Costs of operating the processing facilities in Nebhana would be
detailed in the management contract between the Government and the operator of
the facility. In Medjerda, assurances were obtained at negotiations that fees
would be charged at a level sufficient to recover O&M costs from the start of
operations, and would be progressively increased to cover depreciation. Full
recovery would be achieved when the facilities are operating at 90 percent
capacity (OMVVM Project Agreement, Section 2.08). Extension services provided
by OMVVM and OMIVAN would continue to be subsidized by the Government.
66.      Accounts and Audits.  Both OMVVM and OMIVAN keep satisfactory
accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Assurances



- 21 -
were obtained at negotiations that the annual reports of both agencies, their
project accounts, the sub-accounts of the processing and milk collection
centers, the sub-accounts for certified statements of expenditures, and the
auditors' reports would be sent to the Bank no later than eight months after
the end of each fiscal year (Project Agreements, Sections 4.02).
67.      Production and Benefits.  The greater availability and use of irriga-
tion facilities is expected to significantly increase production and income in
the project areas. In Medjerda, the volume of total production is expected to
increase by 50 percent by full development under the project; this includes
increases in vegetable, cereal, fruit, industrial crop, milk and meat produc-
tion. These production increases are expected to be readily absorbed by
increasing local demand. At full development under the project, about 3,800
farmers would benefit from higher incomes. Farm incomes for small farmers
would rise from D360 to D995, those for medium farmers from D2,008 to D3,038
in the presently equipped area and from D1,424 to D2,735 in the newly served
area, and those for large farmers from D2,107 to D6,137 in the present area
and from D2,032 to D7,195 in the new area. Without the project, it is assumed
that incomes would remain the same, reflecting low production intensities in
the past and continuing lack of water use. In Nebhana, agricultural
production is expected to shift out of olive and low-value vegetable
production into higher-value off-season vegetables and fruits for which the
area is ideally suited. Total vegetable production would almost double and
production of new fruit trees would be 9,000 tons by full development. In
total, about 4,000 farmers would directly benefit from the project. Farm
incomes of vegetable growers would increase form D1,105 to D3,145, in contrast
to D1,760 without the project, and those for fruit growers from D980 to
D6,155, in contrast to D3,100 without the project. Since internal demand for
off-season fruits and vegetables is strong, about 75 percent of the production
is expected to be absorbed domestically, with the balance, an estimated 25,800
tons by 1991/92, to be exported to Europe and neighboring North African
countries.
68.      Based on estimates of the benefits from increased production, and the
investment costs and incremental operating, maintenance and production costs
attributable to the project, the economic rates of return for the Medjerda and
Nebhana components are calculated at 38 and 28 percent for the 35-year life of
the project. Costs and benefits were calculated using conversion factors to
adjust for taxes and subsidies. For Medjerda, if net benefits fell by 70
percent or if incremental costs increased by 250 percent, the project would
still earn a 10 percent rate of return. For Nebhana, if net benefits fell by
50 percent or if incremental costs increased by 110 percent, the project would
also still earn 10 percent. The aggregated rate of return for both components
is estimated to be 33 percent. The project would also provide significant new
agricultural employment, estimated at 5,200 man-years at maximum development.
Most of this labor would come from the depressed highland areas to the west
and south of the project areas. These increased employment opportunities
would contribute to the Government's goals of reducing rural urban migration
and improving rural income distribution. Furthermore, urban consumers would
benefit from a more regular supply of higher quality fruits and vegetables at
more stable prices, as well as from an increased supply of high quality fresh
milk.
Risks
69.      The major risk associated with the Medjerda component is that farmers



-  22  -
might underutilize irrigation facilities. The project provisions for
improving OMVVM's water distribution practices, providing expanded and
improved extension services in irrigation techniques, and establishing
collection, processing, storage and marketing facilities are designed to
encourage farmers to make full use of available water. A major delay in
carrying out any of these activities would slow this project objective. An
additional risk is that farmers might not take advantage of the marketing
facilities provided under the project. The success of this component would
depend on the degree to which OMVVM can respond to the needs of farmers not
currently being met by the private sector. OMVVM's experience in marketing
production from its own farm at Bordj el Amri should enable it to expand its
marketing activities without undue risk.
70.      The principal risk associated with the Nebhana component is Tunisia's
lack of experience with vegetable export marketing. In view of the importance
of this aspect, the project provides for GIL and GIAF to handle export
promotion and coordination. Furthermore, the project's marketing and
extension components will strengthen this effort by promoting the development
of a regional export cooperative to provide technical assistance and marketing
services to member farmers producing for export and strengthening OMIVAN's
capacity to provide management support to farmer marketing cooperatives. If
these components are successfully carried out, they will considerably reduce
this risk. The additional risk of an abrupt fall in domestic prices for
off-season vegetables cannot be dismissed if the present rate of expansion of
area under greenhouse production continues indefinitely, and is not fully
taken up by exports. The results of the sensitivity analysis show, however,
that even if prices fall significantly (30 percent over the next ten years)
below those projected, project investments would still be economically
justified.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Tunisia, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and OMVVM and OMIVAN,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii),
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Speciai features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
72.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 29, 1982
Washington D.C.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
IUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                    Page  1  of  6
TUNISIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE )La
TOTAL             164.0                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       76.7       '                          MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb           MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   220.0        370.0    1120.0*                 865.5                    1616.2
FNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILoGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       173.4       304.2      618.1                  758.3                   1324.1
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4221.0         5127.0    6194.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0           43.5       50.9                  45.2                      64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          9.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATIUN IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PEK SQ. KM.                         25.7         31.3      37.8                   36.3                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       55.0         67.0       78.7                 442.7                      94.5
POPULAIION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.4         46.2      41.9                   44.2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.5         50.0      54.5                   52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.1          3.8       3.6                    3.4                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8 jc       1.9/c      2.1*                  2.7                       2.4
URBAN                                3.2          3.5       3.8                    4.6                       3.7
CRUDE EIRTiH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.6         38.4       31.0                  41.5                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       18.9         13.8       10.7                  12.8                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5          3.2        2.2                   2.9                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         29.2      180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           10.0       21.3
POUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            97.0         96.0     112.0                   96.3                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIkEMENTS)                     80.0         88.0     112.0                  110.4                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            50.0         57.0       73.0                  73.4                      65.8
UF WHlIH ANIMAL AND PULSE         12.0         14.0      22.0                   17.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.0         18.4       12.5                  14.9                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPEGTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.6           54.0       58.4                  55.9                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                       148.0/d      135.0      90.0                     ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         49.0       70.0                  59.4                      65.7
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  83.9                      79.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  40.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPoSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         62.0         ..                    ..                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..        100.0         ..                    ..                      75.7
RURAL                                 *-         34.0      60.0                     ..                      30.4
PoPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10026.1       5934.0    3576.2                 4174.5                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..        727.5    1167.8                 1780.5                    1288.2
PoPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              373.0/e      409.1     427.2                  647.4                     471.2
URBAN                                 ..        290.2     341.4                  547.2                     558.0
RURAL                                 *-       1269.3    1273.1                 3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         24.1         ..                  25.3
hOU slN1
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOuAL                                 *-          5.1 If    6.0
URBAN                                 ..          5.1 If    5.8
RURAL                                 ..          5.1 Tf    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          3.2 /f
URBAN                                 ..          2.7 /f
RURAL                                             3.6 /f
ACLESb TO ELLCTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINUS)
TOTAL                                 ..         24.0 /f
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



-  24  -
ANNEX I
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 Page  2  of  6
TUNISIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0        100.0     100.0                  85.1                     101.7
MALE                  88.0       121.0      116.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                43.0        80.0       83.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         23.0      30.0                  38.0                      35.3
MALE                  19.0        33.0       38.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                 5.0        13.0       22.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  24.0          11.0      35.0                  11.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            61.0         47.0      39.0                  34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                          16.0         28.0      30.0                  23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.5        24.0/f    62.0                   43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0         13.0      18.3                  18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         40.3         75.7     147.3                 121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1          9.9      36.2                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   19.0        16.0       40.4                  35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..        1.5                  3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1137.9       1214.8    1581.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    6.0          7.7       8.2                  10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0         49.8      35.0                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         21.0      32.0                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.0         23.7       25.51                26.4                      31.8
MALE                                 50.2         44.2       46.1                  47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                 3.3         3.6        4.3                   5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.8         2.1        1.8                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ,.          ..      17.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..      42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..       6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..      15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     204.0                 271.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      97.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATEI RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
U,REAN                               ..           ..     193.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..     193.0                 290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      20.0                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      15.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
.iOTZ
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weig ted aritl                  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Ls not oni )rm.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 19'  and A61; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1960-65 average;
/e 1962. /f 1966.
*
The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1310.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and
6354 thousand, with a population growth rate of 2.4.



-  25  -                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITION$ OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the data are droan  frp teourcas generaiiy judged the moot -unhorisati-e and reliable, it should also be noted that they nay cat be inter-
nationally -emparabbe becauao cf eta bank of otdaediced defi-ttioca and .oe.epns need by different canrtre  to cellecting the dana.  The data art, -o
thelene, asefol nt describe oeder- of magnitude, iodi-ate trends, end characterize certait  m joe diffaerenae benceen aoannriea
The ecference     .eeups sre  (1) the *s e  nontey  group of che sub Jen cotnnry aad (2) a counny grnop ninh aneahat high-ee overage inlnme thae the countey gronp
of the nobject nounory (eannoy  far "Capital Surplu- Oil Eoyarters" group vhern. "iddle Ioote North Africa and Middle host" i chosen Ie.ane. of ttronger
seata-aulnaral affinities).  In the referente lennp data the averagen are popolation  _cighted arithmetic rears for each indtaaor and sho._ only when
_ejonity af the countries in t rop toe dant fat that tndicator.  Since the,eenrage of aountries a.nne  the itdicvatrs depends an tbe araiobilltyy of dana
and in non antfoe=, cantion  ast he exercised in relating averages nf one indicator a to aother.  these  verogeT  are only aseful In  syara.g ate ralue a
none idicatne at n tine s=ong the nu.ntry and referenre irnops.
LAND AREA (thoanand sqin.)                                                               Popalaninn per Horpioal Bed -  -ntel, -rban, and rura1 - Pypalacion tracal,
Total - Total nanfean are  aco=yrising load aroe  atd inlbad naners.                      rban, end rurtl) divided by thier renyoniva t=bter of honpilal heds
Aigi-I-1ural - Eininuti  of agricaltural area aaed nemyorarily or permanently            available in ptblit and private general and nyahaltioed hoyital andpre-
far cropa, paasture, traket and kitchen gordens no to lie fallen; 1978 data            hbilitanion cenoers.  Hsyttals are estahlishpen  yermanently staffed
aaatrd hy sane conversion nmethd aa World banknAtlas (1977-79 basin); 1960,               end medical acenters noan permanentiy staffed by a phynician  (utt hya
1970, and 1979 dana.                                                                     nedical asnstoant, nurse, =idnife, eta.) vhiab offer in-yatiennicc=o
damton atd provide a linited rEage ef nedical faciliien. yPor ta-io-
GNP ENEGY    O'TIO PEi CAfITA - Annual cananeptian af anarnatal etergy (anal                tical ysryosen urban hoopitale iPtlnde Walt princiyal/general bospttaal,
and litgit , pet    m  ntural gaa and hydra-, natlear and georhernal e1cr-                and real bnpitoal iocal or rurai hosyitalt and oedital and Paternity
trioity) in kilagrams of anal equivalent per capitc; 1965, 19710 and 1979                tentera   Specialized hospitals are icluded only under natal.
data.                                                                                  Adninsiona per bo-Pical ted - Totai nymber of adihasionn to or dbsaharona
free haspinals divided by ntheanuber an teds.
fOfULATION ANfD VITAL STATISTICS
Total ftpaiation, hid-Tear (thoanando) - ho of Jaly li 19tO, 1970, end 1979          BOUSItNG
dataR                                                                                 Average hire of thousehald (pernors oar taptehaldi - totalu. Fran, end eural-
Urban fopulation (percene ef ronul) - Ratio of arbacnto avola poyalation;                A houseobld uonniotn af a group of individoual vho share lining qaunors
diffeeret defininbas of urban areno may affert co=porahility an data                   and their t          hn peals.    A hoarder or idoor nay no napy  not be iptluded in
a=nag annetrien; 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                            tbe  onsehold far ntatsical purpses.
faealntinn Pel)mttians                                                                 Average cntter nf persons per roan- total. urhan  and rnral - Average nun-
Poyalanien in year 2070 - Carrent ypoplation projecaions are based an 1907             her of yerstnsn yet race in all urhan, and turn) ottupied aconent-ional
natal poyulanion by ago and snn and nteir =ornality and fertilityerates              dvellitga, resprotively.  Dvellingsehlade non-pePanetnt sratres and
frojectton parusrocen for  oenal any tates comyrise of ebrec levelasad19 -                                   a         ln-tapued paean.
hog lifs enpetanany an bientb increcasing nitb cononryt- per no pita iooaae        Acness no ilrctriainv (percnen of doellinas) - canal, urban, and rurol -
levlN, and femle life expectnncy ntabilizing at 77.5 yeats.   he para-               Conventional doellings vitb electririny to 'ivng qautr an pctt
ntern far ferniliny ratc a..o  tne -thee levely ansaming decline in                   af renal, urban  and raral dt -lling  rsopectively
fertil icy accoarding n to ico=e level and pant family planning yerforcsnce.
fatc coactry to eher atotaned one of these nine rombinacinna of menrtality        tDUCATIOt
Uad fertility trendt for projection  uryoses.                                       Adjusted Enrollment tati.o
Stationary voyalanion - In a stationary population there is an groith tiner            feiturv school - total sale and fonale - iron nanal, nal and female
the birth rote it equal no the death rtoe, and alaontbetgoestuctuee re-                eneolineni of all ages an athe primary level an percentages of reapertine
maI.n costant.  Thin in achieved only after fertility rates decline no                  primary ochool-age poyulati_on  normally includes childrrn aged 6-11
the replace=ent ievel of unit net reyroduction rats, athen eath generaian              years but adjuhed foe different lengeta of       -Ymavy educantion  f ir
of anmen renplates itself sxattly.  The snanionary popalation mine Was                 countrienavirt unineesal eduaraion enrollment =ay excred 100 penrcent
rotimated no the basSo of the projected  taroanenisnirn of tte papuletice              sinne none pupilo are belov an  ave the official school age.
in  the year 109, and the rate of decline of fertility rate en reylace-              Snrondaev nchsol - natal nal  ad femle - Camputed an ahove  sacodary
sent level.                                                                             educationarequiees an least foar yearsof anpproved ynimary instructhen;
Tear snatinnary fpoulethOn at reached - The year vean otstionury populstion               provides general, vocational, or teacheCr tealnief instruc thoco for pupis
tine boo hantreabed.                                                                   usually of 12 no 17 years an age; aorrebyandeat croarbo are generally
fopulstion Density                                                                         excluded-
Per en ha. - Kid-year yopulatleo  pdr square haloonse  (lit becrares) af               Vocational enroilnenr inarceny of secdondry) -    torantanel inst-unuions
natal area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 donsa                                                  tnolude tnchnicali indasrtral, or other pragrano chiab operate tndeyend-
Per anq                 bi agricultural lad - C laputed 00 above for agricultural land   ently or as departments ad secondary instinutons.
Only; 1960, 1971 and 1979 data. PIil-neather ratio - prirv-  and secondary - Total studnets anrolled to
Population hoe streacture (peercent) - Children (0-i4 years). corking-age (11-             prieury and secoondary levels divided hy casters cf nearhero in the
64 years), and retired (6i years and aver) as pencentages of mid-year popn-              toneesponding levels.
lotion; 1969, 1971. and 1979 data.                                                      Moule lit enact rane iprmcent) - Literateeadulns (able Lo read and ovine)
Peonlacian Iranth fans (percent) - natal - Annual groeth rates of tetel mid-               as aperreetago of nonal adult ypoplation oged 15 yeavn and ever.
yeae populations for 195i-60. 1960-70, sand 1970-79.
fopulation Grovath into (pracent - urban- Atnual groanth eses ad urban papa-         COSb'SitPTitf
laciaon  far 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-79.                                          Passensar Cars (pesr thoussod naopultion) - PanssgaEr cauto comprise motor
Crude Birth lure lose tbennandl - donavl live hieths per tbhousand of mid-year           caes assning less than eight persons; excladrs netnlanacs, tearses sod
popalueatn   f           -i 1970, and 1979 data                                         millnary vehicles
Crude leach late (per thousand) - Annual deaths pee ntonsande of mid-year              Sadie iReceivers (pee thousand opoolanion) - All nypen of yeceivers far radio
population; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dana.                                                 brooduetas  no gco-r-l public per tobusand nof population; eocludes an-
rnoss Reprducrtion Rate -hAeetue numter of daugttessaawsmaovill bear in                  licensed receivers in counnries end in years abet registration of radio
her nortul reproductive yperiod if she exprtrenors present ag-epspecifinc fen-          menaces in effsct; data fan recena yeors may not be cnmpurshleasince
nil tey ranas; annally five-year uncragem endiog in 1960, 1970, and 1979.              most naovtries aboliehed lirenetag.
Penily flanning- Acceptors, Annual (rhousanda) - Ansual nambee of accyentr-            hTV icenivers (ten thoasand populanion) - hTV receivers for broadcaast to
of tirth-oantrol devices under auspices of notional family pluategn pengss.            general patlia yen thousand population; encladen unliceased TV recreivers
Pasaly Ploanino -Usarn (percent of married wease) - Percentage en married                in contriees and in yearn ahen regisorantry of TV sets vas in effecte
nmna nof child-hearing age (15-44 fears) vob  use birth-aontrol devices no           ineararar Ciryounaion (eer thonoand rralantion) - ibnos the average air-
all married awoen in same age grpup.                                                    caletion of 'daily general interest neotsyopr"  defined astayperiodical
putlicanion devoted primarily no recording gsnoral ena.  In in cnsnidered
f000 ANl Nt         d    t-TRITI                                                           to be  "daily" if it oappers at least four tije  aveekh
loden of Pond Pradanriac ret Canito (1969-71-100) - Index of perunlpiss annoal         Cine=a Annual Attendance pear Capito nor teart-Sbaned on the number of
prodnction of all fond conmoditteo   Praduatien encladesnseed and feed sod              tickers sold duning the ycear  including admiosions to delva-tn aleemtu
to at calendor year bnois.  Cateandities caret yrimary gooda (e.g. sagancner           and mebila anito.
macnod of auger) atich ore edible and chntain nubi-ern (e.g. toffee and
tea are excluded). Aggregate production  ef can  country is hoard on               bAdIl PORCR
national  average pr:daler price teigs; 1961-61, 1970  and 1979 dana.                Tnal Labor forte (ethousds) - Roan.inally active peronn  iclading
P       -r hapita supylv of calories Ipereni af rnnuirenenns) - Cohp,ned fro=          armed foenes and .ncoplayed tat excluding huteivesa  stdnent, eta.,
energy equivalens of ner fond suyplies available in nountry per noitpa covering yoyulation of oll ages.  lefeinitao  In various countries art
per day.  Availablo etuplies namrise domestic yroduction  impaa less                 sat comparable; 1960  1970 and 1979 data.
exports. and changes in steck.  Set suyplies eclade antmal feed, sneds,           Pomala (oercent) - Pesule leabr forme as percentage of tonal Sober farce.
quantities used in fend prossiog, and lasses he disnribution. inquire-           Agninolnams lycrosee) - Later forme in farming, fornatey, banning and
scent note ostimaed by  AOt based no pbysiological n..ads fon namal ansi-            fishing as ph.eneage of natal labor farce; i960, 1970 and 1979 data.
S  viny and hoalth anenderifg en_iranmey nol temperature, body ceights, ags        Indentry bennet) - Later force On mining, acestratine  snuafacturtng
and sea diotribution  of population, and ollahing  10 percent foe  Yasse an          and eletriciny  eater and gas us  -e9cettage of total laort farce;  1960
haouehold level; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 data.                                        1970 and 19)9 danas
Per capita supyly of protein (grains per day) - Protein content of peersyaita        Pseniolontior Rten (percent) - tonal, male, and fonale - fartiniponian an
oat sepply of food  per day, Net supply of fond is defined as  tone.  Sa-            activity rates are co=puned as tonal =sle  and fesale labor froonas
quirtnes for all conrtrihs established by URDA provide for y  iefatot                perentnages of total, mle and female poyulation of all agot repoectve_ly;
allae of tO goons of total protein pee day and 29 grams nf an"il and                 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.  VT ear are based an CLO's particlpotion rates
*                              yular protein, of vhich 10 grams sheald be animal protein.  Theps  stand-             refl-nag afe-sex structure of the popalation, and long  ine treed.  A
ards aye lancer than these of 75 gross of total yrotein and 23 gnome of              fee estimates are from national sourrces
anitul protean as an average fan the wrld, proposed by PAO in the  hind            Rconoeic Dependency Santo - Santo of payIo    iPPan ander 15 and 65 and aver
World Pood turvey  1f61-65  1971 and 1977 data                                        o  the total labor farce.
Pee caspina protein oufaly fins animal end raise - Protein sopply of fpnod de-
rived from animalt and yulaeo in grana pan dsp; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dana.     lNCOtKi DISTRIBUTION
Child lases 1-4) Kofrtality Sate Iero thousaod) - Annoal deeths per th-esand in        Percencane of frivnte Inco=e (ott inoos and kind) - Received by rachest
age group 1-4 years, to  hildren in this age group; for mest develpin 
ton dana derived from  ife tables; 1960, 1970 and 1979 done                            of ho ustehods .
IhaICti                                           POi'OOht fualoh 00bPS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilti.t..
t birth; 1960, 1970 and 1979 daa.                                                      and aldf hestin terpareted verh    ntidatIe t  au       of      Ie  d
iPfu  tta prily SaPtea leer tooud       e   dethifrthRoodr n ya                        onimnd   bselonbt itPoverty manse hoevel (Ci)$ per caPita) - urban and rural -
ofes toe RP    aer    (pesedlrenbit o   ouait-to.a,nbn  n   us      =                    Absolate poverty macme mtel is itee taname loyal belov vhich a miniral
AbereaSf   utrbene of peyoapleS  naotal, urban, and rural) -it  9eanbeacst    am-        nutritionally adequate diet plua eosential nan-fond requiremonto io non
ba Sf-epl    totl, srbsn, and euoh dn0n 1 yeaonalears   o  eeefodt
eaten uapyly (t_cludes  treated anefany natera or ontreoted bta unnantosoatad            ardale         P              le    I
eater nuct us than fran protecceed btrehPles, springs, and aanitaey ace71) 05          mealze relative poverty i ncome4 lvel in one-third of average per no pita
p       1rnentagno  of their _eane yapolotiots.  In an urbanoreaapublipe
fnounatain or oandpns-  located noa  mor than 200 meters from a house may ho           levet l  incb odm  t f  highery    obnaf linn li ishrb       aroea 
considered an oing ainhin reasonable acceso of that banse.  Co erorl areas           lsaede vithnleutient feon Absoluer costeflvin Inom  level aprveas  -un
reasonable acreas nould isyly than tht bansealfe or sombers of the bpu-ehald           aniPtd  Poapularei  f  aption     luntan andlt Pve    Incota Leve  aprent"a-o urban
do non have  to spend a dipeoprtio   e pn   f ho d y in fnitg the                      fnte
family'se naner nee do.ueato                                tcn      epo
Access en Excrena lisa7 sal (percent of population - ll eal, urban  ad eanal -
NOtbeenof people(total, urban.and rural) served tyontreta diaposal as
peenrenages of their respRctiv; populationa.  imt                                                                 ttta disposal mAY inolude
bti colleotihn and disoofli vith at vithout treatment, of hs          ac
and onste-sster by estee-borne systema or the use of yin privies and stat-                                          OEonpomi and  can frDjata     Depar
lar installations.                                                                                                                     Sayomi    9lss 81 rneton   eartn
Paeulaninn yen Phveieian - Poyulation dividnd ty castor of yracticing physl-                                                             Nyl
nisne qualified from a medical school en university level.
Population Peon Nursings Person - Population divided by ==mber of preeniateg
male snd female gradutnoe nurses, practical nurses, and assisnoant nrses.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Psge 4 of 6
TUNISTA - ECONOMIC TNDT1ATORS
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
.1NP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                    Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                      Actual (at 1972 prices)           Actual/l         Projected (at 0970 prices)
Indicator                               at current prices)
1980                      1976     1q77     1978     1979        1980      1Q81    1q82      1983      1984     1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /2                       8,493.8                     7.4      4.3      8.3       7.6        7.3       6.4      6.4       6.6      6.5      6.3
Agriculture                                  1,211.4                      5.2    -7.5       8.9      0.5        8.6        5.0      5.0    415        4        4.0
Industry                                     2,579.8                      7.8      7.0      9.2     11.9         7.6       6.8      7.0      8.0      8.n      7.5
Services                                     3,512.6                      5.4      5.8      7.7      8.2        6.7        6.5      6.S      6.5      6.5      6.4
Consumptiun                                     6,400.0                     8.8      9,5      9.3       7.1        6.9       6,.7      8.8      6.9      5.n      6.6
Gross investment                                2,345.7                    16.9      5.8      6.6       8.7        0.5       8.4       3.8      6.1      5.7      5.4
Exports of goods and NFS                        3,444.4                     9.6      5.6      9.1      19.8        5,b       4.7       3.1      3.7      q.7      9.0
Imports of goods and NFS                       3,696.3                     19.3    16.5       9.6    14.4          3.9       6.4      6.0      4.3       9.6      P.5
Gross national product                          8,437.0                     6.0      4.8      9.2       8.0        6.3       6.5       6.5      6.5      6.4      6.2
Gross national savings                          2,037.0                    -6.3    -1.7      71.2     35.8         6.3       4.9     -27n       5.0    12.9       5.9
Py ICES
GDP deflator                                                              137.7   151.4   158.6   174.2          190.3        -         -        -        -        -
Exchange rate                                                               2.33     2.33     2.47     2.46        2.47       -         -        -        -        -
Share of GDP at market prices (Y)                                    Average Annual Increase (.)
(at current prices)                                          (at constant prices)
1870       1975       1980        1986       1991             1970-75      197S-80     1980-85      19F1-86       1986-01
Gross domestic product                   100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0                8.5          7.0         6.5          6.5           5.8
Agriculture                          16.7        18.2       14.3        17.7       11.1                8.8          1.0          4.5         4.2           3.0
1Idustry                             20.5        27.1       29.5       31.2        32.8                9.0          7.           7.5         7.7           6 .8
Services                             49.3       42.7        42.2       42.2        42.2                P.7          6.0          6.5         6.5           S.,
Consumpt'on                               84.8       75.5        70.0       70.8       71.8                 8.6         8.3          9.8          6.6          6.7
Gross investment                          19.7       29.3        28.3       27.2       25.4                10.8          6.8         5.7          5.4.         4.3
Exports of goodS and NFS                  21.9       31.3        38.5       25.9        33.3               12.5          9.7         5.7          6.            5.1
Imports of goods and SFS                  26.4       36.1       41.4        40.3       38.7                11.3        12.1          5.9          5.,          5.l
Gross national product                    97.9       99.9        99.5       99.3        97.9                8.7          7.0         6.4          6.4           5.5
Net factor income                          2.1        0.1         0.5        0.7         1.9                 -            -           -            -             -
Gross national savings                    13.2       24.3        23.6       21.F       '.9                 7.5          5.9
As X GDP
(at current prices)
1970       1975       1980
PU8.IC FJNANCE
Current revenue                                                 23.5       25.7        2.7.2
Current expenditure                                             20.4       19.9       18.5
Surplus (-) or deficit (-)                                       3.1        5.9        8.6
Capital expenditure                                              9.5       10.8       14.8
Foreign financing                                                5.0        1.8         1.3
1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1981-86          1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (i)                                               8.7              7.0              6.4              6.3               5.5
GNP per capita growth rate (Y)                                    6.3              4.4              4.0              4.0              3.1
IOGR                                                              2.6              3.6              4.4              4.4              4.6
M4arginal savings rate                                           30.5             17.6             20.l             27.8              8.2
Import elasticity                                                 1.24             1.81             0.91             0.91             0,89
/1 1980 data at 1979 prices.
/72  GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMFNA rP 22
December lq81



-  27  -                                                                ANMX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population:  6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                    Annual Growth Rates
(million US.                      Actual (at 1972 prices)         Actual       --    Projected (at 1979 prices)
Indicator                               at current prices)
1980                      1976    1977      1978    1979    1980         1981     1982    1983      1984       1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                             2,282.9                     5.8    -5.0       16.0    10.1       3.9       1.5      0.2      0.9    10.8         9.5
Crude oil                                    1,168.5                    -15.0      1.9    14.0    91.3    11.0          -4.5    -7.8    -6.6    -1.6            -
Other primary                                   207.9                    21.8   -17.9      34.7    10.0         .4       5.8      2.7      2.6      2.5        2.5
Manufactures                                    906.5                    37.2    -1.5      21.9    14.8        1.6       7.3      6.9      6.4    20.9 /7  15.9 /2
Merchandise imports                             3,340.7                    13.6    30.4        5.5    11.7       1.9       6.4      6.0      4.1       5.6       8.7
Food                                           422.4                    -13.5     25.5    11.1      22.2      2.7        6.0      2.9      5.0      3.3       4.8
Petroleum                                       662.0                   -24.8    -8.5    -3.9       25.7       3.0       9.9     14.2    -3.5      36.9 /2  23.3 /2
Machinery and equipment                         765.7                    19.1      2.4      5.2   -11.0    -1.3          3.8      6.5      6.1      5.7        5.4
Others                                        1,490.6                    31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1        3.2       6.6      3.4      6.1      6.1        S.9
Price Index                                  Price Index /3
PRICES
Export price index                                 -                    181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9   178.0    135.7   148.1   161.0   177.3    193.9
Import price index                                 -                   163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6   115.3    128.2   141.4   153.7   166.8    181.3
Terms of trade index (1972=100)                    -                    110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3   139.0    138.0   136.4   136.6   138.5    139.3
(1979=100)                                         -        -        -        -    106.7    105.9   104.7   104.8   106.3    106.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)                                  Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                          (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1980    1981        1986    1991              1970-75      1975-80      1980-85     1981-86       lq86-91
Exports                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                     11.6          9.4         4.2          5.5          2.9
Crude oil                            24.5    41.8    51.1    49.3    35.0    29.0                     23.2          3.0        -4.1         -3.8         -3.5
Other primary                        21.2      18.0      9.1      9.2      7.0      6.0                 6.7         2.0          3.7         3.0           3.0
Manufactures                         54.3    40.2       39.8    41.5    58.0    65.0                    6.2        14.3         11.2        12.0           5.5
Imports                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                     13.4        12.4          5.8          5.9          5.1
Pood                                 20.6    15.8    12.6    13.6    13.6    12.9                       8.9         7.5          4.2         4.2           4.4
Petroleum                             4.0      9.8      19.7    20.5    24.4    25.2                  36.5         23.7          8.0         7.6           4.1
Machinery and Ecuipment              23.0    30.2       22.8    21.8    20.7    19.5                   15.7         8.3          5.7         5.7           4.4
Others                               52.4    44.2    44.8    44.1    41.3    42.4                      10.6        13.2          5.5         5.7           6.1
Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with                         Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)              Developing Countries (Z)               Capital Surplus oil Exporters (Z)
1970      1975      1980              1970       1975      1980                    1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                     62.6       48.6      74.1              23.4      41.4        n.a.                   14.0    10.0       n.a.
Imports                                     62.9      67.1       73.5              33.7      25.7       n.s.                     3.4      7.2      n.a.
/1  1980 data at 1979 prices.
/2  Increase in refining capacity.
/3  For 1981-85, export and import price index is based on 1979=100.
EMENA CP 2C
December 1981



1'r             Or                      0-                                     0-         000
00                               0               ro                                                             0-         000
Ot                            -00-             05                  0000                                       Zr
-0                             0-0             tOt                 0',,-,0-            ort                   rt>            0
-n   >>,-               00000000rt  '4-coo      0-v      Co-Or  or-.C'oooaoo 0-',0            0a   trO.oC,r ',',r-r,-.ro  .00        -0--
0    orb         0'          '1  1',tt',  YO00-  r-O          "mOO  ,-,Or',.-r I ooOoOr..         rort  0rt,1-.,  o  .,   go   n           moo
o    r-,'1  oC',  -0           - a,ttr-r-ttr  tttr-to--0'r  om0,-.0t   000-om,-0m04000 00           .j1  oo'i,-am.--O   so   -rrtoOO        It'
-    moot  .1',-  tO           0 -.00<0.0-  0000  00  o-Or-r00-00   ro0,.C00   00   --              <0  00  <'-00   0'-'  000                  0
o    ',0  r,Oo  0              0, cr0000   Or-,', 0-0  000-000000    .1  noo',   no 0-ott           to    OoOo         aO  ',',-oO          00
0- " ar'-'< CO tt,-ar- 000 tO -tart 0,a0 -00 toO oar0o00 00 0 aao00 00
-    0    oN                  Otrtrtorn        000   00.-s    trot'    00,00   '00   0               -  000 rotrOl  0000',                  00"
0    aO   000                    -0  '0   OoOat't  0            'nO    o  -  ot  000000-            00     -  -   -  oar        at'          --
0-     a  a0,,  0-                 0    r  00          0-         o-   -           -00 .,Or         00   in    -o   r,rt  00 oO-            a
0',         00               0    0         0               0    cr  0  -0       -.1000          0  00      00   00   o,  '-0          00-
00    00   000                     .4    1  0000  0    0-        0-   -.  0  0'         OoZ          S'-'  00    00   00        000
00   000                     0'    0        1    0          -    -  00  0.        OatO         0    0       aO   0    0-0-art0            0
CO   0-0.0                '    a  Ox   -.    a           0-    a  ',  ...a      0           a0   0                  0000
00   <    0           0    0  0  000        OoZ         0',  ,j      -    n--  000-5
a    ,O   00.1                            0000  o                         a    0      0  0         o-0   o        0  o    0.0-00            --
aCt  0000                    0          0  0                0    ',       ',      a            00   0         -0  0    000              -0
*    0                             -0   0    .1                  0     0   0    0      0              1            0            0-
-.0   COo                         a    0  00               0-   -  0    -                      0<            0  0    0-00              0)0
00   ,00'..t                0    tt    0  0                         0            0            .,0            0  0                      00
00                     0              0               0         0-          am             0                o    000                0
am0-  0-00-                  C    o                         .-       a                         o'-            0  0    tO
r...rO  .o0                        ,-      0               o        a            0            0              0        ',',  0
'10   000                    -'            00              to        o                        -o              a        <Cr             000
6 0 0 0 0 r- - -o -4 -.
on                           0    0         0               0                                  0                       tOO              '00-
0  0  0                    0                                                   -            0                       00,-
'.0   '00                   0                              ro                    0            o                       000
000  SOn                          o-'                       0                     0                                        o              '0
00   Otro                   '    o                                               0                                        o              0-
mj0  0n                      0    0                                                                                                       0
0  .100                    0    0
0  0   0                   0     0
0-     0-                  '1
0      0                         00
0     0-
00     00
00         o'-0-    0000)-r-o 0-0         0-    000-0    '0       -  0    00-0-)  ,0  0-000   '0
-00-0-0)    0 -0000    000000-0-000     '0           0-00   00   000  000000000000   0000    00
0)0)0-00000  0-0-      000000)00000      0)00.0-0m0000000           00   000000000  000  ..0-00
0-
OQ                                          -       00    I  --           - - C                   00
0)00          000    000000000000       0)000,0  0000 000   '0       0-  I 00000)00  0-0  000    00
'00000-0000  000-0000000000000-0          0- 0000000)000000000)00   00 0-0000   o-4  0-000-   00                   000
00 .. . 00 a-
00   0000000000  00-000    000000000-0-0       0000000000-0.--0000         0    '000-000000  00   00-                -
0                                                                                                                            00
0                                                                                           000
0)   000-000000            0000    0000      00      000        0    00             -           0
o'0..   00000)0-0000 0-.000)-00000000           '00    0-  0000-0-000  0-00  000.0   '00            '0-
00000000   0000-0    0000000000000    0000-'0)00.-.00 00-0)    000  -'-0  00''000'0""  0-00  00)    000
0.....0-0 .... oro 00 tO
000      0000000...  0-03.00    0000-000K        000.-.000)0-Co-"000000    -  00'0  0000000,-  o00  000-00        -            00      0-
00   0-0
00  '00-        a5,                             - - -     '00                                                         00                   000
-    -   -  -   -                                   I           I    -   -  I               '0.
0000000000)0-0               000     .00     to       0  -r .-0000   0    00'00    -
000)00          '0...   0000000-000-000-00000000000,0   '0             0  000)0-'000-  000  '0000    00
00', 0    0 000.-.0000  00000.-    0000000)000    00000-'0)000000-0000000)0)0)0-0-0   00'  0)000-                           a
00-        0 -.0-00  0000000,   0-000000000)    0-000000 00000)'--.        000  000-0)0-00-  000  00000                  000
0                                                                                                                        .100
0-                                                                                                                         5
o    0)00                                                          000
030000000)000                00)00000-         0,    00  or 0000    00   00-0)    -                0
O         00)0-    0000000-0-000    000-000000  000000    00       0  00'00000'0'0       0)00    00
0-  00  00)0-0)    0)0)000000)    '0000000000-00-000)0   00   .-.0)  '0000-0-0000  0000000--   0-                00
I.....0 ...0 0
0      00000)0)00000)0000000000-0000)0-0-                       0-  000000000   00-  0-000
0000                                                        00
00    000)  000-00          00)    00000-            0-  I  '00000)  0    0-000    -
0         000)    00'000- 0-00000)00.0'-' 0-000-00000    0         00  00  00000)0  00  000-0-   00
'0 0- 00)000) o0-o-'0-'0 00 0)0-0)00000000000000 0- 000 0 0000,00 000- 000000 0-
0-   0-  000000)    00-0000000000000000000000                    0000  0-  0000-0  0-0  000-
0000    000                                                          000
0)00    000   0000      -  0,0   000000       00    00       000000  0-   0000       0
0         000000000-00000000000000)0-  0000-00   '0    00 '0  0000000  0000  '000
0    00  Oo 0-000)000000)00000000-0'000,00                  00   000  0-  00000  0)0-  0-000-   00
0) ..
00  00  00000-00    0-000000000)    00000000000-00000            00  00  0000000  0-00  00
000)    000-                             00                          0-0        00
-  -    -  -    -               -         -4                     I   -    -
000-    0000   00-.,,    0)  000    00000      00    00  p  00000-4  00   000
-00)    000,40-0000,0    0000-0000   0000004    00..-  00  '0  0,0000   000  00'0
00       OoAo    -00000,000o    000000000  '0000000    000  00)  000000  0-00  00000    0000
000                                    00   0000-0-0        0000-00 OCr    000-0000000000000          0  000  0  000000  0-''  0-0
000
000                                                                                                   0
'or                                                   0    0000    0o              0        00             0                                                 0000
-                                                                                                      0000
00                                                   00       -  -   -                                     -                0     '000
'100                                             000'0    000000  0-000    0,000)'00)    0)0      00    00  0  00000-0  0    00                            000
00                                                 00000    0)0-00-0-00.0-    0000000   000)00)   00        0  00  00000   o0)  000                            0-
000-00-00      0000000-0   000o    00   oO   00  0000000  00-  000                              0-
-0
to                                     -    .0000000)000-0000000-    00000000   000000                    0-  0-  0000000  004  00                          0
I    01                        0-
0)   0)00,0  -'000         00        00                    00  0)   00   000
0000   '000)00000000000000000                  00      0  00  0-0000000000000    00
00000000000000-00    '00-00000000  0-000o    00    00  0  0)00000  o    0000)    0
'0  00  00-000    00-0000)00-00-00000   0-00000    0    oO   00  0000   0-0  000-
00   00'00000)    0000000)000)0    0000000000   000)00           0000000000000000   00000
h         -



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982) a/
USt Million
Loan or                                                                                                 Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                  Cancellation)
Number      Year             Borrower                      Purpose                          Bank       IDA c/     Undisbursed
Thirty Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                      238.98      60.47
238        1971      Republic of Tunisia            Population                                            4.80        0.06
937         1973     Republic of Tunisia            Urban Planning and Public
Transportation                        11.00                   0.37
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.20                   2.62
1088        1975      Republic of Tunisia            Urban Sewerage                            28.00                   1.96
1155         1975     Republic of Tunisia            Third Education                            8.60                   4.59
1188        1975      Republic of Tunisia            Second Highways                           28.00                  16.88
238-1        1976     Republic of Tunisia            Population                                            4.80        0.06
1340        1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                  12.00                   1.99
1431         1977     Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Development                    42.00                  13.08
1445        1977      SONEDE                         Fourth Water Supply                       21.00                   9.86
1504         1977     BDET                           Development Finance Company               30.00                   3.34
1505        1977      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industrial Project             5.00                   1.90
1601        1978      Republic of Tunisia            Rural Roads (Third Highways)              32.00                  25.78
1675        1979      Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Sewerage                     26.50                 24.34
1702         1979     SociEtE Nationale
d'Exploitation d'Eau           Fifth Water Supply                        25.00                 11.16
1705        1979      Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Development                  19.00                  17.27
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia            Second Fisheries                          28.50                  25.70
1796        1980      Republic of Tunisia            Southern Irrigation                       25.00                 24.84
1797        1980      Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                  42.50                  19.68
1841        1980      Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Highways                           36.50                  36.50
1864        1980      SociEte Tunisienne de
l'ElectricitE et du Gaz        Second Natural Gas Pipeline               37.00                 30.43
1885        1980      Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                   30.00                 28.90
1961        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Education                          26.00                  26.00
1969 b/     1981      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industry Development          30.00                 30.00
1997         1981     Republic of Tunisia            Northwest Rural Development               24.00                  24.00
2003         1981     Republic of Tunisia            Third Power                               41.50                 41.50
2005         1981     Republic of Tunisia            Health and Population                     12.50                  12.50
2012 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia            Textile Rehabilitation                    18.60                  18.60
2052         1982     Republic of Tunisia            Grain Distribution and Storage            42.00                  42.00
2108 d/      1982     Republic of Tunisia            Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)               35.00                  35.50
2113 dI/    1982      BDET                           Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                     30.50
TOTAL                                                                   999.38     70.07      561.91
Of which has been repaid                                                 97.75       6.59
Total now outstanding                                                   901.63     63.48
Amount Sold                            14.33
of which has been repaid             13.18                               1.15
Total now held by Bank and IDA c/                                       900.48     63.48
Total Undisbursed                                                       561.79      0.12      561.91
a/ In addition, a loan for $30.5 million for a Sixth Water Supply Project was approved by the Board on April 27, 1982.
-/ Not yet effective
c/ Prior to exchange adjustement
d/ Approved but not signed



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1982)
Amount in US$ Million
Year        Obligator                                Type of Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                  Fertilizers                   2.0      1.5       3.5
1966   Societe Nat. d'Invest.(now BDET)             Development Finance Co.                0.6       0.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                              Development Finance Co.   8.0          2.2      10.2
1970   Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(now BDET)                                  Development Finance Co.                0.6       0.6
1973   Societd Touristique & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                     Tourism                       1.6      0.3       1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                             Tourism                       2.5      0.6       3.1
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor                Chemicals                              0.6       0.6
1978   BDET                                         Development Finance Co.                1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                                  14.1      7.6      21.7
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                     8.6      1.8      10.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                                         5.5      5.8      11.3
Total undisbursed                                                         0.0      0.0       0.0



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C.          PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:                Population Project: US$4.8 million credit of April 5,
1971; Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:              Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. Arrangements are
being made to cancel the undisbursed loan balance of $110,453.
Ln. 937:    Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:    US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October
5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. The undisbursed
loan balance is $365,575. A last payment of about $200,000 is being
processed, and arrangements will be made to cancel the remaining balance.
Ln. 1068:   Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are nearing
completion. However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources
due to limited distribution hours, lack of on-farm development and poor water
management.   Land reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984. In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities was
less than originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not built
because of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was to
construct and manage it. Land consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be
completed by mid-1983. Production of off-season vegetables under greeenhouses
is encouraging.
1/          These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered, and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense,
and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a
balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity (ONAS). As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, most of the project components are now in operation, some minor
components are being finalized and project completion is expected by
mid-1982. One of the project's major benefits will be release of land for
development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has been impossible
because of the pollution of the lake waters by untreated sewerage.
Consultants financed under the project have produced a land-use plan for the
area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in progress.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily and as planned in
the revised schedule. There was a slight delay of about three months in
construction, but the procurement of furniture and equipment is running
ahead of schedule. The final bid documents for the extension of the five
teacher training colleges have been received and the contracts awarded. All
major covenants have been met.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Hammamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed.   The remaining construction works on
other roads are well-advanced.  The Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there
is a difficult problem of expropriation will not be undertaken as part of
the project. All studies under the project have been completed and their
results are being implemented.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
About 84 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
percent is committed; amounts in excess will be financed by the Third
Agricultural Credit project. Categories 2 and 4 (subloans to commercial
farmers and agro-industrial investors) are fully disbursed. Category 1
(subloans to small and medium farmers) is expected to be fully disbursed by
the end of June 1982. Disbursements for Category 3 (subloans to farmers'
associations for the establishment of date palm plantations) have begun.
Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in progress and plantation is
also progressing satisfactorily for three of the six associations. However,
drilling of artesian wells for the remaining three associations is suffering
some delays and the category may not be fully disbursed before the Closing
Date.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation
continues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
smoothly underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The
first filling-up of the reservoir is progressing well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation by the end of 1982. After some initial delays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. A 6 km
section was commissioned in June 1981, permitting the supply of additional
water to Tunis during the peak consumption period. First irrigation in the
1,400 ha Testour perimeter is scheduled for September 1982. Preparation of
works (expected to be commissioned by the end of 1983) for the safeguard of
citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area is progressing satisfactorily.
However, this sub-project is experiencing important cost overruns.
Ln. 1445:      Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the project
is now expected to be completed by the end of 1982, about six months behind
the appraisal schedule.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
labor intensity or export-orientation. UJnder the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces.
Progress on the complementary agricultural component, after an initial
delay, is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Government request to expand
the project to cover three additional provinces is being processed.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is procee-
ding. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1_9', Dr-we of Effectiveness:  October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved seven urban and eighteen
rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $23.0 million.
Procurement for the project is now completed and works under all project
contracts are proceeding rapidly.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The physical works of the project both in Tunis and Sfax are progressing
satisfactorily, with about 35% of works completed. Technical studies for
the solid waste collection and disposal component are advancing. The
construction of core housing experienced cost overruns and some delays due
to technical difficulties associated with the sites in Jebel Lahmar and to
slow acquisition of sites in Saida Manoubia and in Cimer Nord. This problem
was recently solved and the acquisition of sites completed.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat hulls is underway and



-  35  -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
bid awards for boat engines have been made. Cold storage and ice making
plants for existing ports have been procured and bidding for civil works at
three new ports is underway.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and now is progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work will be underway on 11 of the 16 project perimeters before the
end of 1982.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are now progressing satisfactorily.
Dredging operations are completed and the precasting of cellular caissons
started early in 1982. Some delay was experienced in the settlement of the
reclaimed area, but this should not affect the project's completion date of
June 1984. Initial concrete casting problems at Sfax are now solved and the
new quay is being erected. The area occupied by the Navy has not yet been
vacated which might reduce slightly the length of the shallow-draft berth.
Civil works there are about 5 months behind schedule and completion is
expected by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both ports.
Training programs for port personnel are finalized and the implementation
phase should start soon. Terms of reference for a study on reorganization
of port workshops and maintenance procedures are ready and proposed
invitations to bid are awaited.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well; the 1981 construction
program is underway.   The 1982 action plan is being implemented, and
tenders have been awarded for civil works. Road maintenance equipment is
being delivered.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The first branch pipeline to



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Tunis has been completed and other branches will be completed during 1982.
Gas flow continues to be delayed pending resolution of international gas
pricing issues.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers
(at the moment still being financed under the second Agricultural Credit
project), production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and
agro-industries. The loan became effective after one extension of the
original date of April 30, 1981. Disbursements have started for Category 4
of the Loan (commercial farmers). However, because funds are available for
these farmers and for agro-industries under other programs which offer
subsidies, unlike the Bank-financed program, disbursements under this
project are smaller than expected.
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily.
The first phase of construction has already been tendered. All the final
lists of furniture and equipment have been completed and the programs
reviewed. The OTTEEFP has already reviewed proposals on the longer term
technical assistance to aid in reinforcing the management logistics and
programs of the network of vocational centers. One proposal has been
retained and is under negotiation.
Ln. 1969;       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July
31, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects.
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region by



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
concentrating on the establishment of institutions which could implement the
program, and the extension, research, credit, and livestock development
services. The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil
conservation and forestry activities, together with productive
infrastructure works.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network and improving the supply
of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:       Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of July
15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in implementing the first
phase of a rehabilitation and modernization program for the public sector
textile industry. It would expand and improve production so as to enhance
competitiveness in export markets. It will also provide technical
assistance to improve operations, financial management and accounting
systems, upgrade marketing and prepare second phase investment plans.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 2,
1982; Closing Date; December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of
Cereals (OC); and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. After initial
recruitment difficulties, OC has now filled the new post of Director of
Planning.



- 38 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of z
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MEDJERDA/NEBHANA IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                       5 months (April through August
1981 - previous preparation for
the Nebhana component, done in
1977, had to be revised)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:         Medjerda Valley Development
Agency (OMVVM)and FAO/CP, for
the Medjerda component; Nebhana
Development Agency (OMIVAN)
and the French consulting firm
SODETEG, for the Nebhana com-
ponent.
(c) Project first identified by the
Bank:                                      December 1978
(d) Date of Bank appraisal mission:            September/October 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:        April 3, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:             October 1, 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)     The Directorate for Hydraulic Studies and Major Works (DEGTH)
would progressively transfer to OMIVAN, in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank, the operation of main and
secondary pipelines, and the operation and maintenance of
pumping stations and tubewells (paragraph 57).



- 39 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
(ii)   GIL and GIAF would prepare a national export strategy and present
it to the Government and Bank for review no later than December 31,
1983, and the Government would promptly implement the
recommendations resulting from this review (paragraph 59);
(iii)   The land consolidation program in Medjerda and Nebhana would be
completed and provisional titles granted no later than December 31,
1984 and June 30, 1983 respectively (paragraph 60);
(iv)   BNT would make credit available to farmers under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 61);
(v)   OMVVM would distribute water for at least 16 hours per day at all
times and promote night irrigation at peak irrigation periods
through 24-hour service (paragraph 62);
(vi)   OMVVM would establish, no later than June 30, 1983, a training unit
for extension agents, with staff and a work program satisfactory to
the Bank (paragraph 62);
(vii)   In Nebhana, OMIVAN, with the agreement of the Government, would
progressively take measures to recover operating and maintenance
costs of the distribution network by December 31, 1987 (paragraph
63).



I



__ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _   IBRD   16133
TU       WA                                                -                                                                                                         0 e20N0102
MEDJERDA / NEBHANA                                                                                                                                                           I ----020_0 
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                   2                                                                         ' E .0 L''- ,-  'E
MEDJERDA                                                                                            (PO.okoo   (2                                    <_                   'oooo'
\                                              ..O o0..  Aov   A                                    OLe   2
000022I                                                                   ' I IGTI - 1)2 -1  11 I I 1A 1. 1L.     I)                                      L _/
AIE.Ut  FRO5C I5-Oh 11 _   -z T 1                                                                                                                  i s
;-lGEA-L ERO E-11G5T O                                                                       UT16UF   c                                                                            i; 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co UhxRO5
_ ' =X1; EUI LT UF n RbA6                              <       ~     ~     ~~       ~~~ ~~/  ( /                                                           'gO     cvfSOf rbo
it 
$~~ ~~~ ' >       /                   3{      : ::                            lFn2.$
C2            0.-'2.',                                              .., I                                                                                                      0\ 00
~~000000                                                           .        5                     0N ITORI,~  I
\                  \',  ,  '/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~TI,4,,         f
)~~~                    ~     ~~~~~~~~ \4                                                                   L 7   ,,/ 0CEFcd;- \           
\_:   g  _   j C  u  m   R E L X    i:   ,i                     l          '                !       1e  ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~A V,ARSA  S t 
DJED~~~~~~~k
|(  A: R  C A   t   tj /    t   ,    0  =<      \      //                 ,' r           |         r   \;         55D,  ELL           t-,---
1:  )  TA'     ,                                  ,%            \,,,         ,,'   ,,' ~~~~~0  00' .        '0                ./       u(                 \
;'     \                          '   BOR[0 EL AMRI                    j            -a        0                X            X                    X; MORNAG0 ,0 
NIS _  .  I  ,    _    /    /  / _   \       _
CLAN' $20    AMER 302                                               I N
22oS(iP/WDAHRI,                                                                  AAA                     7           001~AT1G
A   P   C    A                                                                                                                                                                       -7  --54--- --- 
SI                                                    -o.K                      0                           AEQONN EL AMR
.'0"-'oT'02154  O  42                              /  N ~~~~~~~.          .         No  0      0-.            4        '2 ~~~~~  "-'\M 0RAMMM,



I



IBRD 16134
~~~FADH(OON    ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~1o-30                                                                                   TUNISIA                         JNAY18
I  (S  9N  _ KBCI                                                                                         MEDJERDA/NEBHANA
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MOnOiOUd  Q~~~~~~~ed ~~~~bA00O                                 i ~~~NEBHANA
Eist 09  /pelice and Banclhe;                    36s
36'                                              WEZFEDi/'                                                                                                                              NoW  PPel SOe
4 /A/ FOU1 MENI            tc                                                                                                                                                           Poeping Stdti-nto be Modified
WEFZ Z                                                                                                                                                                               INie_  Pum,npAg Station
Heafd rone 091, of Innigotion Section, to be Modified
SR/KHA                                                                                                      *       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Head reservoir of Irrigation Section
5RXHA                                  ;/D/ gou Ad-                               MA PIFM                               PWv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CU Rrosre Reductio- Tack
QSbikha /40ha                           \                                                MNW3P-       >9X I  2  \ SX  IRRIGATION  SECTIONS
%ff Not lnaciode in tfhe Wrigati-c Rehabilitation Project
I  /CE  \-,_YBC3,\cloded iO the Irrigation Rehabilitatin, Project (Loon 1068
j        <      X    ;     ^                            >         <   \       &         :  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~______   RoaJds 
/                     /                <        /                             K          a       o    h,2         e    d 0   aS~~~~~ Raillways
2y/4rwX;igrt2005;0002~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;;AA     t/                                                            rasn 
Ka3aaK   r                                -                   Ct1/\es
Salt abck
a eKI LOMETERS      10
>MONASTIR
Ca          /          To rKoin                                                '''                                                  \                            /                              'AIROUAN
iR - f hot/        pHP-niraei\t     9stO                                                                                                                                                                              Tebu|be
OLe Kat
OK--n.rr
L     T   U   N   I   S                                                                                ------I  A           -                                                    b0
LI LR.     -36 30'30                                                   I1t,"tc i 



