LOAN IUMBER 2157 TUN
DOCV13
Loan Agreement
(Nedjerda-Nebhana Irrigation Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NMBER 2157 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Office de la Mise en
Valeur de la Vall&e de la Medjerda and Office de Mise en Valeur
de Nebhana with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Office de la Mise
en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda and Office de Mise en
Valeur de Nebhana the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
7oregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
arms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the 'Project
;reements of even date herewith between the Bank and Office de
a Mise en Valeur de la Vallge de la Medjerda and Office de Mise
en Valeur de Nebhana;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, October 27, 1980, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "OMVVM" means Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallfe
de la Medjerda, an     etablissement a caract&re industriel et
commercial established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Laws No. 58/63 of June 11, 1958 and No. 58/76 of July 9, 1958,
and Law No. 80/27 of May 26, 19fU, as amended;
(b) "OMIVAN" means Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana, an
etablissement  public   a  caractere   industriel  et   commercial
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No.
73/28 of May 7, 1973 and Law No. 80/29 of May 26, 1980, as
amended;
(c) "DEGTH" means the Direction des Etudes et Grands
Travaux Hydrauliques, a directorate   in the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture;
(d) "Dinar" or the sign "DT" means the currency of the
Borrower;
(e) "M4edjerda Valley perimeter" means the areas served by
OMVVM in the Tunis, Bizerte, Zaghouan and Beja Governorates of
the Borrower;
(f) "Nebhana perimeter" means the perimeters served by
OMIVAN, through the Sidi Messaoud Dam pipeline, in the Sousse,
Monastir, Mahdia, Sfax and Kairouan Governorates of the Borrower;
(g) "BNT" means Banque Nationale de Tunisie, a Societ6
Anonyme incorporated and operating under the Borrower's Code de
Commerce promulgated by Law No. 58/129 of October 5, 1959, as
amended, and under    its Statuts filed with     the Registre du
Commerce at Tunis, as amended;
(h) "OMVVM Project Agreement" means the Project agreement
between the Bank and OMVVM of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the OMVVM Project Agreement; and
(i) "OMIVAN Project Agreement" means the Project agreement
between the Bank and OMIVAN of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the OMIVAN Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time  by  agreement   between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan..
Section 2.03. Except cs the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to three hundred
twenty-five    thousand   one    hundred   twenty-three    dollars
($325,123). The fee shall be payable in such currency or curren-
cies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall
not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required for the full
payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for
the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the


﻿-4-
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligation      under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause OMVVM and OMIVAN to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the OMVVM Project Agreement and the OMIVAN
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of OMVVM and
OMIVAN respectively therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
OMVVM and OMIVAN to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) Without    any  limitation   or  restriction   upon   its
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall:
(i) make available to OMVVM, by way of grant, out of
the proceeds of the Loan, for the purposes of
carrying out Part A of the Project, the amounts
allocated under Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the
table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 of
this Agreement; and
(ii) make available to OMIVAN, by way of grant, out of
the proceeds of the Loan, for the purpose of
carrying out Part B of the Project, the amounts
allocated under Categories (4), (5), (6) and (7)
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 of this Agreement.


﻿Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause DEGTH to transfer to
OMIVAN, progressively in accordance with a timetable agreed upon
with the Bank, the responsibilities in the Nebhana perimeter for
the operation of main and secondary pipelines, and for the
operation and maintenance of pumping stations at Ain Kebrite,
Bled Sisseb and Oued Aich and of all tubewells.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause BNT to provide under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
agricultural credit: (i) to farmers in the Medjerda Valley
perineter under Part A (9) of the Project; and (ii) to farmers
and agricultural service cooperatives, respectively, in the
Nebhana Valley perimeter under Part B (4) and (5) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank may agree, take all measures or
cause all measures to be taken to complete, in the Medjerda
Valley  perimeter,   the  furnishing  of  provisional   titles  to
individuals for land distributed pursuant to Law No. 69/56 of
September 22, 1969; and
(b) by June 30, 1983 or such later date as the Bank may
agree, take all measures or cause all measures to be taken to
complete, in the Nebhana Valley perimeter, land consolidation and
the furnishing of provisional titles to individuals for land dis-
tributed pursuant to Law No. 63/18 of May 27, 1963 and Law No.
71/9 of February 16, 1971.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all measures, and
cause all measures to be taken, to reserve for farmers suitable
space at the Tunis wholesale market.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) entrust Groupement
Inter-professionnel    des   Legumes    and   Groupement    Inter-
professionnel des Agrumes et Fruits with the development of a
national export strategy for fruit and vegetables and the
development of a strategy for assistance to exporters attempting
to find market outlets and the provision of market intelligence;
(ii) cause the Groupement Inter-professionnel des Ugumes and
Groupement Inter-professionnel des Agrumes et Fruits to review,
by December 31, 1983 or such later date as the Bank may agree,
the proposed strategies with the Bank and the Borrower; and (iii)
implement or cause to be implemented, promptly after such review,
the recommendations resulting therefrom.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall allow OMIVAN to increase water
charges in the Nebhana perimeter to such levels as shall be
required to enable OMIVAN to carry out its obligations as
provided under Section 2.07 of the OMIVAN Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by


﻿-7-
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) OMVVM and OMIVAN shall have failed to perform any of
their obligations under the OMVVM Project Agreement and the
OMIVAN Project Agreement, respectively.
(b) As a result of events which have occured after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that OMVVM and OMIVAN will
be able to perform their respective obligations under the OMVVM
Project Agreement and the OMIVAN Project Agreement.
(c) Laws No. 58/63 of June 11, 1958 and 58/76 of July 9,
1958 or Law No. 80/27 of May 26, 1980 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, rep-aled     or  waived  so  as  to   affect
materially and adversely the ability of OMVVM to perform any of
its obligations under the OMVVM Project Agreement.
(d) Law No. 73/28 of May 7, 1973 or Law No. 80/29 of May
26, 1980 shall have been amended, suspenlded, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
OMIVAN to perform any of its obligations under the OMIVAN Project
Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OMVVM and OMIVAN or for the suspension of their opera-
tions.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿-8-
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and OMVVM and OMIVAN.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (c, (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the OMVVM Project Agreement shall have been executed
and delivered on behalf of OMVVM and shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate or administra-
tive action; and
(b) the OMIVAN Project Agreement shall have been executed
and delivered on behalf of OMIVAN and shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate or administra-
tive action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the OMVVM Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by OMVVM, and is legally binding upon
OMVVM in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the OMIVAN Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by OMIVAN, and is legally binding upon
OMIVAN in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date    Kc         G    q&d, , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrovez; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan et des Finanees of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The iollowing addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare du Plan et des"Finances
Place Ali Zouaoui
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE DU PLAN ET DES          MIPLAN
FINANCES                     12 117 TUN
Tunis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By       /  jfJ
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By.   3/
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works.             5,000,000           35%
for Part A of
.the Project
.(2) Vehicles and             2,300,000           100% of foreign
Equipment for                               expenditures and
Part A of the                               65% of local ex-
Project                                     penditures
(3) Fellowships for             50,000           100% of foreign
Part A of the                               expenditures and
Project                                     80% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Civil works.for          2,100,000           35%
Part B of the
Project
(5) Vehicles and             7,700,000           100% of foreign
Equipment for                               expenditures and
Part B of the                               65% of local ex-
Project                                     penditures
(6) Technical Assist-        1,000,000           100% of foreign
ance for Part B                             expenditures and
of the Project                              80% of local ex-
penditures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7) Fellowships                  50,000          100% of foreign
for Part B of                               expenditures and
the Project                                 80% of local
expenditures
(8) Fee                        325,123           Amount due
(9) Unallocated              3,474,877
TOTAL             22,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of te Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table ir  aragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no ex-
penditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase production of
vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, and livestock in the
Medjerda Valley perimeter and the Nebhana perimeter.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Medjerda Valley perimeter
(1) Construction of irrigation facilities by the install-
ation of irrigation canals and drains; windbreak plantation;
construction of about 35 km of farm access roads, of about 70 km
of road ditches and of about 200 farm access structures; and land
levelling and field drainage, over an area of about 2,400 ha.
(2) Improvement of the existing irrigation canal network
over about 500 ha.
(3) Improvement of about 100 km of farm access roads.
(4) Construction and equipping of, and provision of trucks
for, a 20,000 ton capacity fruit and vegetable processing center
at El Bathan -(with a 600 ton cold storage capacity), and con-
struction and equipping of a 600 ton capacity cold storage center
at Mornag.
(5) Construction and equipping of refrigerated milk collec-.
tion centers at Sidi Thabet, Zhana, Manouba and Mornag; provision
of 12 farm-to-farm milk collection units with a tractor and a
trailer each; and staffing of an extension team in charge of
improving milking and milk handling.
(6) Provision of about 45 equipped tractors to OMVVM br4-
gades to be newly established at Bordj Toumi, Oued Ellil, Soukra,
Utique, Bordj El Amri, Djedeida and Chouigui.
(7) Construction of 9 stores for inputs at Oued Ellil,
Saida, Soukra, Tarfa, Mornaghia, Bordj El Amri, Djedeida,
Chouigui and Lezdine; construction of 7 shelters for agricultural
equipment at Bordj Toumi, Bordj El Amri, Djedeida, Chouigui, Oued
*   Ellil, Soukta and Utique; construction of 6 offices for OMVVM
extension staff at Saida, Mornaghia, Djedeida, Bejaoua, Soukra


﻿- 15 -
and Chouigui; and construction of 17 houses for extension agents
in the Medjerda Valley perimeter.
(8) Strengthening of OMVVM staff by the hiring of 11 addi-
tional extension staff, by the establishment of an agricultural
and   irrigation  training   unit,   and  by   the  provision   of
fellowships.
(9) Provision of credit, through BNT, to farmers to promote
mechanization of small farm operations, development of livestock
and fruit tree plantations.
Part B:   Nebhana perimeter
(1) Improvement of the Nebhana perimeter irrigation system
through:
(a) (i) Construction and equipping of a second repumping
station at Oued Aich, provision of three new
pumps, and stabilization of the discharge pipe at
the Ain Kebrite station;
(ii)  installation of four variable flow pumps and a
telecontrol station at the Bled Sisseb main
pumping station; and
(iii) replacement of 4 diesel pumps by 4 electrical
pumps and acquisition of 4 standby diesel groups
for the Ain Bou Mourra station.
(b) Installation of about 1,300 hydrants, about 30 pressure
regulators, about 25 water meters on the primary and
secondary irrigation canal network (including a water
meter at the Sidi Messaoud Dam), about 750 flow
regulators, about 3,100 water meters operating at farm
level, and PVC pipes over about 1,100 ha to reduce
water losses.
(c) Construction and equipping of 11 reservoirs with a
total capacity of about 14,600 m3, five at Sbikha and
one each at Fahdloun, Enfida, Sidi Bou Ali, Akouda,
Bembla and Monastir.
(d) Construction of a second 400 m/m pipe line from Brise-
charge 5 (Bembla) to Teboulba III, over about 16 km.


﻿- 16 -
(e)  (i) Construction of a third semi-mobile aluminum pipe
for about 9 km, with a capacity of <105 1/s, to
serve the Old Teboulba perimeter;
(ii) replacement of the old pipe distribution system
over about 450 ha at Old Teboulba, Ouardanine,
Teboulba I and II and Bekalta;
(iii) enlargement of the reservoir at Bekalta II to a
capacity of about 2,050 m3; and
(iv) minor repairs on the      supply line   serving the
Kondar (Enfida) perimeter.
(f) Recharging of the aquifer at Old Teboulba.
(2) Improvement of farm access roads, including: the gravel
surfacing of about 75 km of roads, the reconstruction of about 20
km of access roads to achieve an all-weather standard, the
rehabilitation of about 37 km of side ditches, the construction
of about 2,350 small culverts over ditches, the construction of
38 structures across temporary rivers or drains and the con-
struction of simple gabions and concrete protection works against
flooding in Sbikha and Sidi Bou Ali.
(3) Construction and equipping of, and provision of trucks
for, a 20,000 ton capacity fruit and vegetable processing center
at Sahline (with a 600 ton cold storage capacity); and construc-
tion and equipping of a small sizing, grading and packaging chain
for fruit at Sbikha.
(4) Provision of credit, through BNT, to farmers, for the
purchase of perforated plastic pipes for greenhouse irrigation,
portable gated pipe for open field irrigation, trickle irrigation
equipment for tree irrigation, and tree plantation.
(5) Provision of credit to agricultural cooperatives by BNT
for the construction of cooperative service centers at Akouda,
Bembla, Fahdloun, Monastir, Sbikha and Sidi Bou Ali.
(6) (a) Establishment and operation of a 5 ha OMIVAN
vegetable nursery;
(b) equipping and staffing of two OMIVAN disinfection
units to assist farmers in greenhouse treatment;


﻿- 17 -
(c) carrying out of land clearing over about 1,400 ha;
land levelling over about 600 ha; installation of
windbreaks over about 3,000 ha; and drainage works
at Ain Bou Mourra, as needed; and
(d) provision   of  vehicles   and  equipment  for   the
maintenance of infrastructure in the Nebhana
perimeter.
(7) Strengthening of OMIVAN's extension and marketing ser-
vices through: (i) the hiring of about 30 additional extension
agents and of 4 subject matter specialists to train and assist
extension staff; (ii) the hiring of I engineer, 1 assistant
engineer, 2 administrative staff and 1 technical assistant for
OMIVAN's marketing service; (iii) the provision of vehicles to
the subject matter specialists and the marketing staff, and the
provision of mopeds to the additional extension staff; (iv) the
provision of consultant services to assist in training and in the
improvement of extension services; (v) fellowships for OMIVAN
staff; and (vi) the provision of consultant services to assist in
service cooperatives' organization and management.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 18
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1986
through   November 1, 1998                  $845,000
On May 1, 1999                                   $875,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
prin-ipal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
Gen, al Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years                            2.05%
before maturity
More than three years but                            4.10%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                              7.50%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                          10.25%
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                             11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, OMVVM and OHIVAN shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto,, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. OMVVM and OMIVAN shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   (1) Tender documents for the construction and equipping of
the fruit and vegetable processing center at El Bathan included
in Part A (4) of the Project shall be submitted by June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank may agree to the Bank for
approval.
(2) Contracts for equipment and vehicles shall be grouped
to the extent possible.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes


﻿- 21 -
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
simi1-r taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
purL..nt to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in conection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 22 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, other than those referred to in Part E hereof,
may be carried out under contracts awarded in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Specialized hydraulic modules may be purchased directly
under a negotiated contrac, from the sole manufacturer.
3.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each may be awarded in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all contracts so
awarded by OMVVM shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent; and that
the aggregate amount of all contracts so awarded by OMIVAN shall
not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. OMVVM and OMIVAN shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusions of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by OMVVM and
OMIVAN to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are
notified of OMVVM and OMIVAN's decision, and OMVVM and OMIVAN


﻿- 23 -
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; with
respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more; and with respect to all contracts
for the specialized hydraulic modules referred to in paragraph
C.2 of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, OMVVM and OMIVAN shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, OMVVM and
OMIVAN shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform OMVVM or OMIVAN and
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
8ubmission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With,respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, OMVVM and OMIVAN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly


﻿- 24 -
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform OMVVM or OMIVAN, and the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, OMVVM and OMIVAN shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, shall promptly inform OMVVM or OMIVAN and the
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Minor civil works such as land leveling, upgrading of access
roads, drainage improvements and windbreak plantation may, after
approval by the Bank, be carried out by OMVVM and OMIVAN force
account in accordance with OMVVM, OMIVAN, and Ministry of Equip-
ment procedures satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction -nd Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2      -day of   3r-1~, 198 A.
FOR SECRETARY


