Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4335-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TffE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR LOAN
May 29, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Cruzado (Cz$)
As of February 28, 1986
US$1.00                       Cz$13.84
Cz$1.00              =       US$0.072464
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil                  =    January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CHESF              Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco
DNAEE              Departmento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
(Electric Sector Regulatory Agency)
ELETROBRAS         Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
(Federally-owned Eletric Utility Holding Company)
ELETRONORTE        Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
ELETROSUL          Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
FURNAS             Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
MME                Ministry of Mines and Energy
PSRP               Power Sector Rehabilitation Plan
RGG                Reserva Global de Garantia
(Global Guarantee Fund)
SEPLAN             Secretaria do Planejamento
(Secretariat of Planning)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Country:                BRAZIL
Project:                Electric Power Sector Loan
Borrower:               Federative Republic of Brazil
Intermediary:           Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS)
Beneficiaries:         - Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF)
- Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
(ELETRONORTE)
- Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
(ELETROSUL)
- FURNAS Centrais Eletricas S.A. (FURNAS)
Amount:                US$500 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Repayment in 15 years, including three years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate.
Relending Terms:        The Borrower will transfer an amount equivalent to
the loan proceeds, in cruzados (Cz$), as equity
contributions to ELETROBRAS which, in turn, will
transfer these funds as equity contributions to four
of its subsidiaries, the beneficiaries of the loan.
Project Objectives
and Description:     The proposed project is based on the 1986-1989 Power
Sector Rehabilitation Plan (PSRP) which has been
prepared during the last two years by the Government
and ELETROBRAS, with the technical support of the
Bank. The PSRP has been analyzed and found satis-
factory by the Bank. The sector rehabilitation is
to be achieved by: reducing the investment program
to minimum acceptable levels; following appropriate
investment priorities; balancing the composition of
the program among generation, transmission and
distribution; increasing substantially the sector's
internal cash generation, mainly through tariff
increases; increasing, through Government contribu-
tions, the sector's equity capital; and promoting
energy conservation. The proposed loan will help
the Government provide the equity contributions
required by the sector in 1986. These contributions
will be given to the utilities with the most urgent
financial needs, on the basis of rehabilitatior
plans acceptable to the Bank. The equity
contributions will enable these utilities to
implement priority investments included in the PSRP.
Thi document w a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of ther oMcial dutis. Its contents may not otherwi be discbrsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                  No particular physical risks are expected to affect
the implementation of the sector's 1986-1989 invest-
ment program, as similar works (generation, trans-
mission and distribution) have been successfully
constructed in the past. The main risk-derives from
the financial difficulties faced by the Brazilian
power sector.  These problems are being addressed
through a program of financial measures included in
the PSRP, which will progressively improve the
financial conditions of the sector. Failure to
implement the above measures may adversely affect
the sector finances and may result in delays in the
execution of the investment program. To reduce this
risk, during loan negotiations agreement was reached
with the Government and ELETROBRAS on the implement-
ation of the financial measures included in the
PSRP, which will be supervised closely by the Bank.
Estimated Cost:                               1986-1989 Investment Program a/
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Generation           8,116         902      9,018
Transmission          3,661      2,440      6,101
Distribution          2,523      1,081      3,604
General Investments    897         224       1.121
Total          15,197      4,647     19,844
Financing Plan:                                     US$ Million b/
Net Consumer-based funding                         4,817
Equity contributions                               4,166
Sub Total                                 8,983
Borrowings                                        10,861
Total                                    19,844
a/  These estimates were calculated utilizing constant price levels pre-
vailing in March 1986. They include taxes and import duties as
applicable (which amount to about 10% of this cost) as well as
physical contingencies. They exclude price contingencies as explained
in para. 71. The investments during 1986-1989 for the Itaipu
hydroelectric scheme, and for nuclear, plants were excluded (see para.
70).
b/ For details see para. 76.



- iii -
Disbursements:          The proposed loan will help the Government finance
the equity contributions which are required by the
sector to achieve the investment and financial
targets envisaged in the PSRP for 1986. The
proceeds of the loan, therefore, should be made
available to the Government during this year. The
loan will be disbursed against acceptable general
country imports which are to be procured in
accordance to practices acceptable to the Bank. It
is expected that US$250 million (first tranche) will
be disbursed by July 31, 1986 and the remaining
US$250 million by December 31, 1986.
Rate of Return:         Near 11% rate of return on the 1986-1989 investment
program, using, as a proxy for benefits, the retail
tariffs required to attain the legal 10% rate of
remuneration level by 1990.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FO RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THER ECICTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$500.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE ELETRIC POWER SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil fcr the equivalent of US$500.0
million to help the Government's effort to rehabilitate the electric power
sector. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. An amount in Cruzados (Cz$)
equivalent to the loan amount will be made available by the Government as
equity through ELETROBRAS to the four beneficiaries, which have urgent
financial needs, on the basis of rehabilitation plans acceptable to the Bank.
PART I - THE ECONOKY
2.        An economic report entitled -Brazil:  Country Economic Memorandum"
(Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years.  This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil. In
this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform, economic
growth and inflation control, with a strong social and anti-poverty orienta-
tion. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89, presented to Congress
in November 1985, stresses social objectives including the gradual recovery
of real wages and, among Government programs, a concentration on improving
health, nutrition and housing for low-income Brazilians. Reform of the
public sector is a strategic objective. The Government intends to concen-
trate more on "traditional" functions, such as the provision of social
services and basic infra-structure, leaving directly productive activities
increasingly for private sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2%
p.a., and a more rapid increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an
essential condition a return to GDP growth of at least 6X a year. Three
major stabilization aims are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public
sector deficit, re-negotiation of the external debt, and the control of
inflation.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real GDP
in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a signific-
ant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate of
7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases in
1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments sought
to maintain output and employment growth through policies characterized by
generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and agricultural exports
and import substitution; rising import barriers; investment in domestic
energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the expansion of state
enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's
medium- and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5
billion, with total obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including
short-term debt. The efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974
created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The economy
remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil
prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increased,
the current account deficit more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of external
developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic problems
of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the debt
crisis of August 1982. Faced with thie loss of its reserves, the reluctance
of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new credits, and bleak
international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance from the Inter-
national Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjustment program. In
February 1983, the IMF approved Extended Fund Facility and compensatory
financing arrangements, for a total amount equivalent to about US$5.4 billion
for the 1983-85 period. Associated with this were commercial bank
commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rescheduling of
US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other measures of
financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided, inter alia, for
the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and the commitment of
US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included a
30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and tight
monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit was
reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP fell
by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the industrial
and comm ercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12% during 1981-83



3
and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest reductions in incomes
and employment concentrated in the main industrial centers. Much of the
social progress made in the 1970s--when all income groups gained from
economic growth and the expansion of education, health, housing and urban and
rural development programs--was undermined by the recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984. Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An unpre-
cedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although total
imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus resulted
from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total exports for
1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for industrial
exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance, and substantial
net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve position also improved
markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7 billion. Sparked by the
export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to have grown by 4.5% in real
terms, or over 2% per capita. The increase in manufacturing exports helped
industrial recovery, despite the fact that for most sectors the proportion of
total output which is exported remained small. Overall expansion was still
inhibited by depressed domestic market conditions, high inflation (224%), and
real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by 6%. Open unemployment
declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers. Agriculture
expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance of payments
and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by the new
Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly 12% a month
in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent increases,
however, brought the 1985 annual rate to 235%. Externally, the trade surplus
amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit was about 0.5%
of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level equivalent to
about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from 1.6% of GDP in 1984 to about
3.5% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized industrial sector,
including partial quarterly adjustments of wages, resulted, at least
temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these industries, and Federal
Government salaries were also increased to compensate for large previous
declines. Profits were high in many private sector activities. Monetary
policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in fact, some of the expansion in
the monetary aggregates that occurred was aimed at reducing interest rates.
With a sharp reduction in foreign financing, the growing public debt was
financed domestically at high, though later declining, real interest rates.
The real rate on Government securities declined from 21% in August to 15% by
the end of the year. For the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates
increased faster than the 235% inflation: 251% for the monetary base, 312%
for MI, and 262% for M3.



-4-
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate of
inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous months
and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South which
damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of 11% in
November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 14% in
January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the Government had
prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was centered around a
substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit. Taxes were increased and there
were cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise expenditure. Budgetary
control was strengthened in January 1986 by the unification of the fiscal and
monetary budgets, transferring to the Treasury the responsibility for
programs previously financed by the Central Bank and Bank of Brazil; the
termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a second monetary authority; and
the establishment of a National Treasury Secretariat to centralize budget
disbursements. A program for restructuring and selective privatization of
state enterprises was initiated. Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in
December and January, the Government tightened consumer credit and announced
a plan to increase food imports to offset the drought-related increase in
agricultural prices. At the same time, a more radical comprehensive program
to stop inflation was being prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for stabil-
ization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for 1986 was
threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing to be dealt
with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a number of indus-
tries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels and to protect
workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural harvest, and the
need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices. Moreover, there was a
growing awareness that maintaining inflation at 200-250X a year, the rate of
the prior three years, was likely to be verydifficult over the medium term.
The economy was reacting very quickly to new, negative shocks, and the
indexation system made it hard to bring inflation down, once the shocks were
reflected in the price index. In addition, the small size of the monetary
base relative to GDP (about 2%) and the high liquidity of Government bonds
complicated the use of monetary policy to reduce aggregate demand.
14.       The new program seeks boch to eliminate the impact of past, indexed
inflation and to change future inflation expectations. It features a
currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros;
a temporary price freeze on goods and services; an exchange rate set at
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual adjustments
thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing for one year
of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of financial con-
tracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal savings accounts;
the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to appropriate cruzado values;
the conversion of indexed Government bonds to cruzados at the parity existing
on February 28, without any adjustment, at least for one year, in the nominal
value of the new bonds; and a number of measures intended to liberalize the
financial system. These sweeping financial reforms were accompanied by a
continued effort to reduce the fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy to



-5-
stabilize and, if possible, reduce real interest rates. A limited unemploy-
ment insurance program was introduced. Initial political and public
reactions have been highly positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth. Nevertheless, GDP growth is expected to
be substantial, even with below-normal agricultural growth due to the recent
drought. The exchange rate remains competitive; previous mini-devaluations
against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar relative to ti;e curren-
cies of Brazil's other trading partners, have resulted in a 15-20% fJal in
the real effective exchange rate since early 1985. The February 28 wage
adjustments do not raise real wage costs. The large trade surplus remains a
positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be carefully monitored,
the economic outlook has been substantially improved by the measures to
restore internal stability to complement the strong Brazilian performance in
external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium--term economic outlook for Brazil is thus encouraging,
assuming the maintenance of a sound exchange rate policy, reasonable success
in the implementation of the new stabilization package, and the present
determination to reduce the public sector deficit. A focus on further export
promotion, greater productive efficiency, improved resource allocation and
increased savings and investment will be required if annual GDP growth rates
are to remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore living standards and
generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum) to fit new entrants
into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected by the recent
recession.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social policies
pursued within the country. Recent developments, including the decline in
international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have been positive
for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a balance-of-payments
gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in March with commercial
bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls over 1986 maturities until
early 1987, and reduces interest rates on this debt from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8X over
LIBOR. This agreement, which affects about 20% of Brazil's variable rate
debt, will reduce annual interest payments by some US$140 million. A reduc-
tion of a dollar per barrel in oil prices means a net gain of over US$100
million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and therefore
on the international economy, market access, and its own trade policies.
However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in recent years,
including substantial export growth and recent efficient import substitution
in both industrial products and petroleum, should make it feasible to con-
tinue to generate large trade surpluses for several years, even with nominal
growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.



- 6-
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the interna-
tional environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth, Brazil
could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments situation,
external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank analysis, based
on expected macro-economic and sector performance under current and planned
economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth averaging about 7% in
1985-90, with additional foreign financing. Brazil's net mediumr and long-
term financing needs are projected to average US$3.6 billion annually in the
period 1986-90. Of this amount, approximately US$2 billion would be needed
annually from commercial sources. With these moderate levels of net new
foreign borrowing, Brazil's total mediumr- and long-term debt would grow at an
annual rate of 3.8% from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation, and would thus decline in real terms.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve sub-
stantially by the end of the decade. The medium- and long-term debt service
ratio is projected to fall from 69% of goods and non-factor service exports
in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to 52% in 1990. Similarly, the ratio
of total external debt to exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985, is pro-
jected to decline to 2.6 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt service payments will
remain high. Interest payments alone would be equivalent to 24% of exports
in 1990, compared to 39% of exports in 1985. Therefore, Brazil will either
need to reschedule its commercial bank debt further or seek much larger
amounts of new gross borrowing. With continuation of its adjustment program
and of its sound balance-of-payments performance, and an adequate but
moderate flow of net new foreign financing, Brazil's long-term prospects are
good.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were not yet fully
disbursed. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986 was US$3,687.9
million. Debt outstanding and disbursed was US$5,042.0 million, equivalent
to 10% of the Bank's portfolio. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. Thus far in FY86 six loans have
been approved: a small towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5
million; a Northeast urban reconstruction project for US$100.0 million; an
irrigation engineering project for US$48.0 million; a metropolitan urban
development project for US$55.0 million; a second agricultural extension
project for US$155.0 million; and a Northeast health project for $59.5
million. In addition to a Northeast rural development project and an
irrigation project scheduled for early consideration by the Executive
Directors, work is advanced on a second agricultural sector project; the



-7-
public sector management project; and four additional rural development
projects in the Northeast region.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated at US$88 billion at the end of 1985.
The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8X while its share in total
debt service is estimated at 4.1%.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million represent
loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of
March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Sustained economic growth with social progress requires substantial
domestic adjustments. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public
sector expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and
a sound balance of payments. To reduce the fiscal deficit, and to promote
greater overall efficiency in the use of available domestic and external
resources, the Government will have to reduce its participation in direct
productive activities, while concentrating a growing share of its total
expenditures in the social sectors and in other traditional Government
services.  The private sector, therefore, will have an increasingly important
role in the future growth of productivity and production. In this policy
framework, the Bank lending strategy is designed to support the ongoing
restructuring process, promote the mobilization and effective use of
resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and regional develop-
ment objectives to which high priority is also attached by the Government.
26.       The Bank lending strategy is supported by an intensive economic
policy dialogue, through which the conclusions of the Bank's economic and
sector work are being taken into account by the Brazilian authorities. The
composition of the lending program has been decided jointly by the Government
and the Bank, also in support of the strategy summarized above. Most of the
proposed loans aim at achieving one or more of three key objectives: (a)
structural reforms in agriculture, industry and the management of the public
sector; (b) the rehabilitation and development of essential infrastructure;
and (c) the increase in productivity, and the improvement in living condi-
tions, of the rural and urban poor.
27.       Three proposed FY86 operations (including the loan proposed in this
report) support, as their main objective, important aspects of the structural
reform process:
(a) The proposed Public Sector Management loan would, inter alia,
assist the Government in its efforts to: (i) improve the program-
ming and monitoring of the Federal Budget and of the Public
Investment Program; (ii) promote the financial rehabilitation, and
in some cases privatization, of state enterprises, through the
adoption of action plans by individual enterprises, and through
better monitoring of their activities by the Planning Ministry; and



:'; ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      B
(iii) strengthen the control of public expenditures through the
newly created National Treasury Secretariat. An important aspect
of this loan is the agreement between the Bank and the Government
to have an annual exchange of views on the execution of the public
investment program during the prior year and on the program for the
subsequent three years. The first Bank review of the Government's
investment program is now being completed. This loan would effec-
tively institutionalize the review process. The Bank assessment of
public investment performance and programs which would emerge from
the annual exchange of views, and of the analysis of the related
relevant information, could eventually be made available by the
Government to other parties (for instance, commercial banks).
(b)  The proposed Power Sector Rehabilitation loan would deepen, for the
power sector, the process of rehabilitating the state enterprises
referred to above. This loan is based upon a four-year sector
investment program, carefully prepared during the last two years by
the Government and ELETROBRAS, with the technical support of Bank
staff. The program includes only high-priority projects, and its
associated financial plan envisages the full financial rehabilita-
tion of the sector over the four-year period. While tariff
increases have been delayed in 1986 owing to the general price
freeze which accompanied the February 28 monetary reform, the
Government will provide substantial additional amounts to the
sector during 1986, in the form of equity investment. Moreover,
the sector re'iabilitation program supported by this loan includes
rehabilitation plans, acceptable to the Bank, for the individual
utilities, and envisages substantial annual increases in the sector
revenues, starting in 1987.
(c)  The proposed Agricultural Sector Loan would support two basic
policy reforms: (i) the adoption of a new rural credit policy,
based upon interest rates which will fluctuate according to market
conditions and which will imply a substantial reduction of credit
subsidies; and (ii) the liberalization of trade of agricultural
products, including the removal of controls on exports, imports,
and prices, except in the case of extreme price fluctuations in the
international markets. These policies would eliminate the frequent
and erratic Government interventions in the agricultural markets,
which constituted an important disincentive to investment and pro-
duction, onlv partially-and very imperfectly-compensated by sub-
stantial and costly credit subsidies.
28.       Taken together, the policies and decisions referred to in the
previous paragraph constitute a major step forward in the process of struc-
tural reform of the Brazilian economy. These reforms are part of Brazil's
short- and medium-term economic program, which is now being updated by the
Government to take full account of the expected results of the financial and
stabilization policy decisions adopted in January and February of this year.
Given their scope and nature, the reforms described above deserve the full
support of the Bank, even before the updating of the Government programs is
completed. The availability of a complete macroeconomic policy framework
acceptable to the Bank, however, will be a prerequisite for the processing of
subsequent policy-based operations. These are likely to include, in the near
future, loans designed to support the on-going reform of Brazil's financial



-9-
system, which began with the separation of the Central Bank and the Bank of
Brazil in January and the monetary reform in February of this year; the
promotion of export-oriented industrial growth; the rehabilitation and
selective privatization of industrial state enterprises, as a follow-up of
the proposed FY86 Public Sector Management project; and possible follow-up
loans to support the power sector rehabilitation program.
29.       The second lending objective-rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure--will be pursued mainly through loans for power,
transportation, and water supply and sewerage, some of which are also aimed
at other key objectives. Of particular importance in this respect are the
planned operations for the power sector (including the proposed Power Sector
loan referred to above), which will support high priority projects, designed
and implemented in the framework of a sound sector investment program and of
appropriate financial policies. Lending for transportation will be directed
toward the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing transportation net-
work with expansion in areas where economic activity is outgrowing present
capacity. Future loans for water supply and sewerage will be mostly directed
to the Northeast Region.
30.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to improve
their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education, vocational
training, agricultural research and extension, land reform, integrated rural
development, water supply, sewerage, and health are already assisting the
improvemeut of the living conditions, and the increase in productivity, of
the Brazilian population, particularly the rural and urban poor of the
Northeast Region. Future lending in the health sector will seek to extend
coverage of basic health services in the Northeast, and to combat endemic
diseases in the Northeast and the Northwest. Continued lending for
integrated rural development and irrigation projects in the Northeast of
Brazil will support the Government's objectives to further alleviate poverty,
by addressing the region's vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of
regional institutions, and concentration of land ownership. Further lending
for urban development will address ways to improve urban services and infra-
structure, while simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of muni-
cipalities, particularly in the Northeast Region, with a view toward self-
financing of investments and cost recovery. New projects for water supply
and sewerage will also foster these goals while extending services to rural
areas and to the low-income urban population. Education lending will
continue to strengtaen financial and administrative capacity while also
increasing the contribution of education to the development process,
especially in the Northeast.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the interna-
tional financial comminity as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank
participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources from bilateral
credit agencies and private financial institutions. Since 1976, 11 cofinan-
cing operations for about US$570 million were arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. There have been no cofinancing opportunities
with commercial banks in the past four years, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazil were determined within the
framew-ork of debt rescheduling negotiations. In view, however, of Brazil's



- 10 -
current programs of structural adjustment, its recent progress in restoring a
sound balance of payments position, and its current efforts to control infla-
tion, the prospects for renewed voluntary lending from commercial banks are
improving, although the likelihood of a future multi-year rescheduling might
pose some difficulties in this respect. In this framework, the Bank's
cofinancing instruments may well play a positive role in assisting Brazil to
regain its normal access to international capital markets.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Sector
32.       Energy Resources - Brazil's energy resources comprise a vast hydro-
potential, as well as oil shale, coal, nuclear fuels and biomass. Proven oil
and gas reserves while limited, are growing. Of the indigenous energy
resources hydro, biomass and oil currently play a significant role in the
country's energy supply mix. Domestic oil production has increased signific-
antly in recent years; in 1985 it covered about 50% of the market require-
ments. The potential for hydroelectric development is estimated at about
213,000 MW of which about 50,000 MW are in use or under construction. The
Government has made important efforts to increase domestic oil production and
substitute domestic alcohol, natural gas, coal and other sources of energy
for oil. Started in 1975, production of alcohol for use as fuel in internal
combustion engines amounted in 1984 to nine billion liters, equivalent to
120,000 bbls. of oil per day. In view of the falling oil prices, the
Government is currently reassessing the goals of the alcohol program. In
1984 coal production was 6.2 million tons, equivalent to 35,000 bbls. of oil
per day or about 5% of the energy supply. In the early 70s, Brazil started
to develop a nuclear generating capacity, but the present Government has
slowed down such development substantially, and nuclear energy is not
expected now to play a significant role in the foreseeable future. Nuclear
power generation might have an important role in electricity generation
beyond the year 2010, when most of the economically exploitable hydro
resources would be utilized.  Efforts h--.e also been made for a more inten-
sive utilization of other domestic energy resources, including burning wood
and sugarcane bagasse for electricity generation in isolated areas. Although
lower oil prices over the medium-term may alter the speed and magnitude of
the substitution effort in the future, Brazil's reduced dependence on
imported oil today gives the country more flexibility in managing its
economic growth than it had previously.
Energy Demand and Supply
33.       In 1984, Brazil's gross energy consumption was 167 million tons of
oil equivalent (t.o.e.), or 1.3 t.o.e. per capita. Oil products, about 50%
of them imported, accounted for 32% of energy consumption; hydroelectricity
for 32%; and the remaining 36% was met mainly by coal, wood products and
bagasse.
National Energy Policy
34.       Brazil's national energy policy has been designed to promote the
economic use of energy resources and reduce the country's dependence on
foreign energy imports. As such, it has the following main objectives:



- 11 -
(a) Conservation and rational use of energy to encourage maximum
efficiency in the utilization of energy resources;
(b) substitution of imported energy sources by domestic ones,
especially 'renewables", wherever technically and economically
feasible, to reduce dependence on imported petroleum and coal; and
(c) exploitation of existing domestic energy resources and intensifica-
tion of search for new sources.
While (b) and (c) are desirable objectives, it is important for Brazil to
scrutinize further development of domestic energy sources carefully. Given
the country's domestic and external resource constraints and the prospects
of lower real oil prices for the rest of the decade, only cost-effective
substitutes which require relatively modest investments should be under-
taken. The Government is now reassessing the alcohol program, in view of the
new oil trends, and will be reexamining its long-range petroleum program.
Controlling energy consumption is also important. Conservation is still a
cost-effective energy investment, and pricing policy an effective way to
promote conservation. The Government has not yet established a formal policy
on cogeneration. The study on the sector's institutional structure to be
carried out under this operation (para. 40), will address this matter.   As
discussed later on in this report, electric power rates are currently below
the long-run marginal cost of production, and they are expected to reach that
level by December 1989 Csee paras. 41 and 47). Finally, more coordination
in the development and use of the major fuels is needed, in order to reduce
overexpansion of capacity. The issues related to power are being dealt with
through this and other Bank power loans, while loans for transportation
address issues related to other fuels.
Power Sector
- Organization
35.       The institutional development of the Brazilian power sector over
the last 50 years has been characterized by progressive nationalization and
growing centralization, resulting in the consolidation of a few large and
hundreds of small utilities into a relatively compact structure of state and
federally-owned utilities. The power sector is under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (NME) created in 1960. Since then, there has
been a trend towards increasing sector efficiency and coordination with the
establishment of Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS) in 1962,
and the strengthening of the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia
Eletrica (DNAEE), within MME, as regulatory agency. The aim has been to
combine, as much as possible, regionalizaticn of operations with country-wide
optimization of resources.
36.       Though complex, and one of the largest in the world, the electric
power sector is well organized. Decree 60,824, of June 7, 1967, established
the current sector organization under which DNAEE performs regulatory func-
tions, grants licenses for generating plants, assigns concessions, approves
expansion plans and sets tariffs, after approval by the Ministry of Planning,
under the principle of service-at-cost plus an adequate return on capital.
ELETROBRAS serves as a holding company and as a sector development bank.



- 12 -
ELETROBRAS also analyzes expansion plans for major generating and transmis-
sion facilities and coordinates and supervises the public power system.
37.       Four ELETROBRAS subsidiaries (FURNAS, CHESF, ELETROSUL and
ELETRONORTE) are responsible primarily for regional generation and
high-voltage transmission systems. They act as bulk suppliers to state and
municipal utility companies which generally are responsible for sub-
transmission and electricity distribution. In addition to the four regional
subsidiaries, ELETROBRAS also owns ESCELSA (Espirito Santo Centrais
Eletricas), the power distributor for the State of Espirito Santo in the
Southeast, and LIGHT - Servicos de Eletricidade S.A., servicing the metro-
politan area of Rio de Janeiro. ELETROBRAS also holds the Brazilian
Government's 50% Interest in the Itaipu Binacional, the binational agency set
up in April 1973 by the governments of Brazil and Paraguay to build jointly
the 12,600 MW Itaipu hydroelectric facility on the Parana river.
38.       Since 1967 the Government policy has been to consolidate public
electricity service in the individual states into single state-owned utili-
ties primarily responsible for distribution activities, although some of them
have also generation and transmission. This policy has resulted in the
absorption by the major state-owned companies of many municipal and privately
owned utilities and in the gradual transfer to the state-owned utilities of
ELETROBRAS' ownership in distribution utilities.
-  Institutional Aspects
39.       The Federal Government takes most of the important decisions
affecting the power sector: it approves investment programs, sets tariffs,
authorizes external borrowings, and sets constraints on wage policies. This
decision making process is carried out in a centralized fashion and reflects
broader macroeconomic concerns.  In the past, such process has meant that
tariff adjustments have been inadequate to meet real cost increases; subsi-
dized tariffs have been approved to promote exports and to stimulate the sub-
stitution of electricity for imported oil products; and the borrowing
capacity of the sector has been used beyond prudent limits, taking advantage
of the sector's access to foreign financing resources. The result of all
this has been adverse to sector finances.
40.       In order to introduce a more decentralized decision-making process
--financial and otherwise-it has become necessary to review the institu-
tional structure of the sector as well as some of its policies. In this
respect, several efforts have been made by Government and sector entities but
little has been achieved because of lack of coordination and clearly defined
goals. The review should include the sector's policies, organization, legis-
lation, roles of sector entities, and degree of autonomy. Among the
policies, especial emphasis should be given to the tariff equalization
schemes and the participation of the private sector. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Federal Government and ELETROBRAS to carry
out, by June 30, 1987, a study to review the institutional structure of the
sector and to implement the recommendations of such study. Terms of
reference will be furnished to the Bank for its approval, by August 31, 1986.
- Growth of Demand
41.       In 1985, national average production of electricity was about 1,250
kWh per capita. The industrial sector used 55% of the electricity and the



- 13 -
residential sector 20%. Owing to the high industrial and urban concentration
in the states of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, the geographical distribution
of demand is uneven. Though the most developed states have promoted rural
electrification, access to electricity in rural areas for the whole country
is still low (about 222). During the period of 1970 to 1980, public service
electricity consumption rose at an average annual growth rate of 13%, which
is very high when compared with other countries. Though the annual rate of
increase in the last five years has been lower than the previous decade's,
about 8% p.a., it is still high when compared with other countries. The
revised projections of electricity consumption recently prepared by
ELETROBRAS show that demand is expected to grow about 10% in 1986 and at a
moderate rate of about 8% p.a. in the period 1986-1990 and of about 6% p.a.
thereafter. The estimate of power market growth after 1990 will be further
analyzed by Bank staff next November in the framework of the planned review
of the updated sector investment and financial plan that will be presented
then by the Government (para. 60), and of macroeconomic projections based
upon the results of the ongoing revision by the Government of its mediuwrterm
economic program. The lower forecast rates of growth imply a certain degree
of energy management through pricing. The Government's intention now is to
increase tariffs over time to reflect long-run marginal cost. Under loans
2564-BR and 2565-BR, the Government agreed on a plan of action to implement
by December 1989 the recommendations of a long-run marginal cost study
financed by the Bank (para. 47).
-  §ylttm Expansion Planning
42.       ELETROBRAS has the primary responsibility for the coordination of
planning in the power sector and for the preparation of system generation and
transmission expansion plans. Distribution planning is the responsibility of
each individual utility company and participation of ELETROBRAS in the global
assessment of the adequacy of the level of investments of the individual
utilities ensures a consistent approach. ELETROBRAS is subject to the super-
vision of DNAEE in the preparation of its plans, and the plans themselves are
subject to the formal approval of MME. However, since 1981, the responsibil-
ity for approving the investment programs of public utilities has been
exercised by the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN).
43.       ELETROBRAS has developed a comprehensive and satisfactory set of
planning models for the preparation of long-term (20 to 30 years), medium-
term (10 years) and short-term (about five years) generation and transmission
development plans. The long-term plans are revised every five years and the
medium and short-term plans are revised annually.
- Electricity Pricing
44.       Brazilian electricity revenues have two components in addition to
the basic tariff: the sole tax and the compulsory loan which together account
for almost 16% of electricity revenues. Tariffs for each class of conisumer
and rates of remuneration for the utilities are equalized on a nation-wide
basis.
45.       The equalization scheme for tariffs and rates of remuneration is
implemented through the Global Guarantee Fund (RGG), a mechanism by which
companies with a rate of remuneration higher than the sector average make
payments to the RGG, and companies with a rate of remuneration lower than the



- 14 -
sector average receive funds from the RGG. In the past, when the sector
enjoyed robust financial health and the Federal Government was sufficiently
strong to enforce its centralized decision making process, the equalization
scheme worked reasonably well. At present, however, when the sector is
facing financial difficulties and the new government is restoring authority
back to state governments, the equalization scheme has developed significant
problems, as companies with a rate of remuneration higher than the sector
average but lower than the 10% established as a minimum by Brazilian law are
reluctant to make payments to the RGG and, in some cases, have refused to do
so. Thus, the financial crisis tends to be exacerbated for the utilities
that are recipients of RGG funds as long as the sector's average rate of
remuneration remains lower than 10%. This has created serious financial
imbalances among sector companies and the difficulties in solving such
imbalances suggest the need for modification of the equalization scheme.
During loan negotiations it was agreed that under the study to review the
sector institutional structure (para. 40) special consideration will be given
to the equalization scheme.
46.       The tariff schedules differentiate between classes of consumers and
provide discounts to certain consumers, as part of the country's general
economic and social policies. Thus substantial discounts (about 80%) are
given to promote substitution of oil derivatives. However, in view of the
power sector's financial difficulties (para. 51) and the oil price trends,
the Government has decided to discontinue these discounts starting January 1,
1987 (para. 75).
47.       A comprehensive study of electricity tariffs was completed by DNAEE
(in association with ELETROBRAS) in 1985; the study began in 1977 with
technical assistance from Electricite de France, and Bank financing through
loans 1300-BR and 1939-BR. The results of this study are being put into
effect over several years in the framework of currently enacted legislation,
and should result in more efficient use of installed capacity by encouraging
conservation and efficient resource allocation. As a result of the study, a
new electricity tariff policv has been established for country-wide imple-
mentation. The new policy features three tariff groups for each of the main
voltage levels: high, medium, and low. High voltage consumers account for
53% of total electricity consumption in Brazil; electricity rates in this
range include peak and off-peak levels, seasonality schedules, and power and
energy demand rates. High voltage electricity rates were initially optional,
but have become mandatory since January 1986. Pilot implementation of medium
and low voltage rates is underway; medium voltage rates are scheduled for
introduction in the second half of 1986. The full implementation of the new
tariff policy is scheduled to be completed by end-1989. This is in line with
the contractual agreements between the Bank and the Brazilian Government
under loans 2564-BR and 2565-BR. Present tariff levels are about 66% of
long-run marginal cost and are expected to reach 100% by December 1989.
- Sect r Finances
48.       In the early 1960's the Government reorganized the power sector to
make it an important contributing factor to national economic development
(para. 35). At the same time, the Government implemented financing policies
which led to the setting of tariffs at realistic levels and the provision of
equity contributions. These financing policies resulted in adequate levels
of non-borrowed financing for an ambitious investment program which would
satisfy the electricity requirements of the national development program.



- 15 -
49.       As a result of those tariff policies, the consumer-based fund
generation and its contribution to the growing investment program increased
steadily through the mid-1970's, at which time the sector reached a peak of
financial soundness. In 1973, the net (after debt service) consumer-based
fund generation had a share of 56% in the sector's funding mix whereas
borrowings had a share of only 30%, the rest being equity contributions.
Coincidentally with such peak in sector financial soundness, the sector
initiated an even more ambitious investment program which included three
major generating schemes: the Itaipu (12,600 MW) and Tucurui (7,600 MW)
hydroelectric projects, and the nuclear program.
50.       The heavy investment program in non-oil-fueled generating schemes
became more justifiable because of the oil crises. The oil crises of the
1970's, however, also created a different set of financial conditions for the
Brazilian power sector: (i) inflation affected substantially the unit costs
of the investment program; and (ii) the Government, in its fight against
inflation, allowed tariff levels to deteriorate in real terms. In the early
1980's, as part of its economic policies and to make better use of excess
hydroelectric capacity then available, the Government also established
special low tariffs to promote substitution of electricity for energy
generated by imported fuel and to promote the export of electricity-intensive
goods. As a result of such promotional tariffs, the average sector revenues
declined, and the need for sector investments increased.
51.       As a consequence of the above conditions, since 1978 the sector
rate of remuneration has not reached the legal minimum of 10%. It is
estimated that this deficiency represented a loss of sector revenues equival-
ent to US$4.3 billion through end 1985. Furthermore, to finance its invest-
ment program, the sector became increasingly dependent on borrowings which
were provided on ever more stringent terms and which involved a heavy debt-
service burden. Since 1983, debt service has exceeded the level of consumer-
based fund generation, resulting in a negative net self-financing ratio.
52.       In an attempt to reverse the deteriorating trend in sector
finances, the Government and the Bank reviewed them in 1981 and 1983. It was
agreed then that the Government would undertake appropriate measures for the
sector to achieve a 10% rate of remuneration by 1989. This was to be
achieved by increases in the rate of remuneration by one point each year,
through real increases in tariffs and measures aimed at reducing costs.
Despite these agreements, the financial situation of the sector continued to
deteriorate because of (i) distortions in the tariff structure caused by
promotional tariffs; (ii) a higher than expected rate of inflati- -hich
eroded the average level of tariffs in real terms; and (iii) some delays in
the implementation of tariff increases. These factors forced the sector to
cut back or delay parts of its investment program and to continue to rely
heavily on borrowings as a source of financing. Consequently, the
deterioration in sector finances was accompanied by impairment of the
sector's ability to provide electricity to users at acceptable levels of
reliability.
53.       In 1985, in line with the priority attached in its economic
adjustment program to the rehabilitation and development of essential
infrastructure, the new Government undertook to prepare a program for the
financia± rehabilitation of the sector.  For this purpose the Power Sector



- 16 -
Rehabilitation Plan (PSRP), consisting of a four-year investment program and
financial plan for the 1986 to 1989 period, was prepared by the Government
and ELETROBRAS with technical assistance from Bank staff.
54.       The PSRP establishes acceptable targets for the rehabilitation of
the sector during the 1986 to 1989 period (para. 60). Only high-priority
investments that are required to provide electricity to final users at
minimum acceptable reliability levels were included in the investment pro-
gram. Also, high priority is given to transmission and distribution invest-
ments in order to enable the sector to utilize more efficiently the existing
generation capacity developed in the past ten years (paras. 62 and 63). The
associated financial plan provides for the reversal in the deteriorating
trend of the sectors' finances through a combination of equity contributions,
tariff actions, and other measures. Its objective is to reduce the sector's
heavy reliance on borrowings by increasing the sector's internal fund genera-
tion capacity and capitalization.
55.       The PSRP was evaluated by the Bank in April 1986 and found to be
satisfactory as it establishes acceptable targets for the rehabilitation of
the sector during the 1986 to 1989 period. It was signed by the President of
the Republic in May 1986, with the support of Ministers of Finance, Energy
and Planning. The Government has agreed that the Bank would monitor closely
the rehabilitation process of the sector. For this purpose during loan
negotiations it was agreed that the Government, each year until 1990, will
prepare a four rehabilitation plan for the sector and present it to the Bank
for its review and approval. The monitoring will be done, inter alia,
through periodic reports to be submitted to the Bank, and by frequent Bank
supervision missions.
- Bank Participation
56.       Since 1949, Bank loans to the Brazilian power sector have amounted
to about US$3.1 billion. Most of the loans have been for hydroelectric
plants and associated transmission facilities in the Southeastern and
Southern regions, but the most recent loans have been mainly for transmission
and distribution projects, including beneficiaries outside these two
regions. Besides financing high priority projects, Bank lending in the
sector has sought to promote rational tariff policies, to monitor sector
finances, and to help strengthen sector coordination and planning. Over the
past several years there has been a continuous dialogue on measures required
for the sector's progressive improvement. The Bank has also acted as
catalyst for the mobilization of funding from external sources.
57.       The Bank began to assist the Government's efforts to improve the
financial situation of the sector with the tariff agreement of September
1981, and later with the rate-of-remuneration agreement of November 1983
(para. 52). During the last two years, the Bank and power sector authorities
have collaborated in preparing a power sector rehabilitation plan covering
the period 1985-1989, which is the basis for the proposed operation (para.
60). Brazil has entered a period of economic growth which present sector
conditions, technical and financial, cannot support effectively over the
medium-term. Therefore, the Bank's role in the sector would be to assist
Goverment and sector authorities in their efforts to improve the financial
condition of the sector so as to ensure its effective contribution to the
economic growth envisaged in the Government's national development plan.



- 17 -
58.       Twelve performance audit reports on power sector projects2/ have
been distributed to the Executive Directors. These reports conclude that,
despite construction delays, cost overruns in some cases, and the beginning
of a deteriorating financial trend in the late 1970s, Bank-financed projects
have been substantially successful. In general, these reports emphasize the
important role played by the Bank in the Brazilian power sector.
PART nV - THE PRO3ECT
Origin and Preparation
59.       In January 1984, in view of the financial difficulties faced then
by virtually all power companies, and of the strategic importance of the
power sector for the long-term development of the country's economy, the
Brazilian Government requested the assistance of the Bank for tne prepara-
tion, implementation and financing of a sector rehabilitation program. The
Government elected in March 1985 confirmed that request, in the framework of
the intensive policy dialogue started then about the requirements for the
long-term development of the country's economy and, also, about the Bank's
role in assisting such development. In response to these requests, Bank
staff have cooperated closely over the last two and a half years with
ELETROBRAS, and with staff of SEPLAN and the Ministries of Finance and of
Mines and Energy in: (a) the diagnosis of the sectoral problems to be over-
come; (b) the definition of an appropriate policy framework for the medium-
and long-term development of the sector; (c) the identification of investment
priorities, and of requirements and possible sources of financing; and (d)
the final preparation of the 1986-89 PSRP. While the 1985 change of
Government, aid the 1986 economic policy reforms, affected, in some aspects
negatively, the timing and policy contents of the PSRP, the end result of
this process--the final draft of the PSRP, which was evaluated by Bank staff
in April 1986-constitutes a substantial improvement in the planning of
sectoral investment and policies. Loan negotiations took place in Washington
during the period of May 12 to 21, 1986. The Brazilian delegation was led by
Mr. Ivo Pereira, Deputy Secretary General, SEPLAN.
Objectives and Long-Term Strategy
60.       The proposed project would support the Government efforts referred
to above to rehabilitate the Brazilian power sector through the implementa-
tion of the 1986-89 PSRP. This plan, which the Bank has reviewed and found
to be satisfactory, is based on: (a) the minimum investments to be made on
priority projects which are necessary to meet electricity demand with accept-
able levels of reliability (paras. 64 and 65); (b) increasing substantially
the sector's internal cash generation through tariff actions and other
acceptable measures (para. 75); (c) commitment of the Government to provide
2/ Sec M 75-646 of September 4, 1985; Sec M 77-532 of June 28, 1977;
Sec M 789-34 of January 16, 1978; Sec M 79-82 of February 12, 1979;
Sec M 79-756 of October 23, 1979; Sec H 79-757 of October 23, 1979;
Sec M 79-905 of December 29, 1979; Sec M 81-532 of June 22, 1981;
Sec M 84-632 of July 9, 1984; Sec H 85-697 of June 7, 1985;
Sec M 85-1353 of July 3, 1985; Sec M 86-327 of March 24, 1986.



-18 -
equity contributions to the utilities with financial rehabilitation needs
(paras. 73 and 74); (d) securing adequate financing sources for the sector to
execute its investment program (para. 77); and (e) promoting adequate energy
conservation measures (para. 65).  The abovu plan is satisfactory.  It sets
acceptable targets for the financial rehabilitation of the sector during the
period 1986-1989, and lays out an integrated action program to achieve them.
The 1986-89 PSRP, moreover, should be considered as the first step in the
process of ensuring the technical adequacy and financial soundness of the
power sector over the long term. For this purpose, the Government expects to
have, also over the long term, the technical support of the Bank. Until
1990, or such other date on which the objectives of the 1986-89 PSRP shall
have been attained in terms satisfactory to the Bank, the Government will
furnish to the Bank, not later than November 30 of each year, a satisfactory.
updated plan for the rehabilitation of the sector, covering at least the
following four years. Such updated plans would include a sectoral investment
program and a detailed financial plan, comprising, inter alia: (a) increases
in the rates of remuneration up to, at least, the levels envisaged in the
1986-89 PSRP; (b) declining shares of borrowings in the financing of the
sector's investment; and (c) specific equity amounts, and time-phased tariff
increases, that will allow the sector to achieve the agreed rates of
remuneration and borrowing targets for the immediately following year. After
the PSRP objectives shall have been attained, the Government will furnish to
the Bank, not later than November 30 of each year, an updated five-year
sectoral investment program and financial plan, both to be satisfactory to
the Bank, and cause such investment program to be duly executed and to
provide the resources required for the execution of such investment program
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
The Investment Program
6i.       The sector's investment program for the period 1986-1989 was pre-
pared on the basis of the latest version of the long-term expansion plan,
Plano 2000, a comprehensive planning study completed in 1982, which the Bank
has reviewed and found to be a sound development program for the sector. The
investment program maintains the least-cost expansion sequence of generation
and major transmission projects recommended in the Plano 2000. ELETROBRAS is
now making arrangements to prepare a new long-term expansion plan (Plano
2010). As this plan is essential to update the least-cost expansion program,
agreement was reached during negotiations that ELETROBRAS will submit to the
Bank for its approval, by November 30, 1986, terms of reference for the
preparation of the plan. The plan will be carried out by May 31, 1987, and
promptly thereafter submitted to the Bank for its comments. It was also
agreed that the Government and ELETROBRAS will not enter into contractual
arrangements regarding the implementation of generation and major trans-
mission projects until their technical, economic and financial justification
has been confirmed in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
62.       The 1986-1989 investment program was defined on the basis of
criteria agreed between the Bank and the sector authorities. The criteria
include: (a) maintaining the same least-cost expansion sequence for genera-
tion projects recommended in the -Plano 2000"; (b) giving priority to the
completion of transmission and distribution projects required to transfer and
distribute the energy generated by projects now being commissioned and to
construct new networks required to improve system reliability; (c) postponing



- 19 -
and scaling-down the nuclear and coal programs, considered to be a deviation
from the least-cost expansion program; and (d) restraining implementation of
transmission and distribution projects related to industrial loads served
under subsidized tariffs.
63.       As a result of the above considerations, the imbalances In the
composition of the power sector's past investments, which resulted from the
large proportion of the investment (about 65%) allocated to generation
projects (mainly hydro, nuclear and coal plants) during the late 1970's and
early 1980's are now substantially corrected. The investments included in
the proposed 1986-1989 program for generation (45% of the total investment),
transmission (31%), distribution (18Z), and general investments (6%) reflect
realistically the sector's minimum investment requirements.
64.       The sector investment program in the period 1986-1989 would be
about US$5 billion per year. This level of investment is relatively low
considering that it is about the same in nominal dollar terms as the average
sector investment level realized in the period 1978-1983. The proposed
program includes only essential investments required to provide service at
minimum acceptable levels of reliability. Further substantial reductions in
the investment program would result in severe power supply shortages during
this period.
65.       As a result of the delays in the completion of projects under con-
struction and in the starting of new ones, as well as of the imbalance in the
composition of the sector's past investment programs, when not enough funding
was provided for construction of new transmission and distribution works, the
risk of energy shortages during the 1986-1989 period exceeds levels
traditionally used for sector planning. By 1992, the probabilities of energy
shortages, about 17%, and not meeting demand, 9%, are above the normal level
of 5X. To minimize such risks, agreement was reached during negotiations
with ELETROBRAS to prepare and submit to the Bank, by November 30, 1986, a
satisfactory program of preventive and corrective measures to reduce the risk
of power shortages to acceptable levels. The preventive measures will
include, among other actions: (a) restraining demand growth by (i) implement-
ing the recommendations of the marginal cost tariff study (para. 47) in a
timely manner, (ii) pestponing expansion plans for large electricity-
.ntensive industrial consumers, and (iii) discontinuing subsidized tariffs
for promotion of oil substitution ('Eletrotermia' loads); axid (b) increasing
electricity supply by utilizing existing oil-fired thermal generation, by
increasing investment in hydro-generation, and by supporting cogeneration.
Some of the corrective actions may also include selective electricity supply
curtailments.
66.       The 1986-1989 investment program includes the commissioning of
about 16,000 MW of generating capacity, of which about 93Z is hydroelectric.
The program also includes starting construction of about 19,000 MW, of which
94% are hydroelectric plants to be commissioned by 1996, as well as expansion
of the interconnected transmission systems and distribution networks.
67.       Engineering designs as well as bidding documents for the construc-
tion of generating plants, transmission lines and substations included in the
program are now being prepared and they are expected to be completed on time
and in a satisfactory manner, because the power sector staff are competent
and have had considerable experience in preparing such documents.



- 20 -
68.       Procurement procedures utilized by the sector give due
coneideration to econowy and efficiency. During Implementation of the
1986-1989 investment program (for which contracting of goods and services
will not be financed by the proposed loan), the sector utilities are expected
to use the following procedures: (a) International Competitive Bidding (tCB)
for those contracts to be financed by multilateral agencies (IBRD and IDB);
(b) Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) for those contracts to be financed with
internal funding (only among suppliers/contractors operating In Brazil); and
(c) Limited International Bidding (LIB) for those contracts to be financed
with bilateral funding (usually restricted to suppliers/contractors both from
Brazil and from the country providing the financing).
69.       For construction works, the utilities will retain contractors,
which have vast experience in this type of works. Installation of equipment
will be carried out, depending on the complexity of the equipment, by
suppliers or force account. Both construction works and installation of
equipment will be under the supervision of the corresponding technical
departments of the utilities. With the above arrangements, it is expected
that the works included in the program will be commissioned in a timely and
efficient manner. Implementation of the investment program will be monitored
through periodic reports to be submitted to the Bank, and through the work of
frequent Bank supervision missions.
Cost Estimates
70.       The estimated cost of the 1986-1989 power sector investment program
amounts to about US$19,844 million, of which about US$4,647 million, or 23Z,
is the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange component. These
estimates exclude investments required during the period for: (a) Itaipu
hydroelectric scheme (US$1,773 million), which is a binational entity, owned
both by Brazil and Paraguay. The power sector purchases the energy from -
Itaipu Binational and its corresponding costs are included in the sector
operating costs; and (b) nuclear plants (US$1,240 million), which are being
constructed by NUCLEBRAS (agency of the Government for nuclear development).
The nuclear program is financed by the Government and the corresponding
assets will be transfered to the power sector when the plants become opera-
tional during the mid 1990's, at the cost of the equivalent hydroelectric
plant which would be then next in the sequence of the Plano 2000. A simmary
is given below:
1986-1989 Investment Program
US$ million (March 1986 Review)
Z of Total
Local     Foreign     Total       Investment
Generation                       8,116        902       9,018        45
Transmission                     3,661      2,440      6,101         31
Distribution                     2,523      1,081       3,604        18
General Investments                897        224       1,121         6
Total           15,197       4,647     19,844        100
= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =



- 21 -
71.       The cost estimates were prepared by the sector utilities' planning
and construction staff. They are based both on preliminary and detailed
design and comprehensive bill of materials and equipment as well as detailed
evaluation of the corresponding civil works and erection costs. These
estimates were calculated utilizing constant price levels prevailing in March
1986. They include taxes and import duties as applicable (about 10 of the
base costs). Physical co; tingencies were calculated at about 13% of the base
costs, which is considered appropriate given the nature of the works and the
degree of accuracy of the above estimates. Because of the uncertainty of the
effects on costs and prices resulting from the macroeconomic measures taken
recently by the Governuent, the above estimates have been prepared without
price contingencies. However, these contingencies have been evaluated
separately utilizing Bank expected price increases of 7.2% for 1986, 6.8Z for
1987 and 1988, and 7.0% for 1989. On this basis, price contingencies for the
period 1986-1989 amount to about US$3.2 billion, or 16% of the base cost.
The proposed operation provides measures to cover a possible gap arising from
price increases (para. 96).
Financing Plan
72.       During the first half of 1985, sector finances continued on a
deteriorating trend (paras. 48 through 51) mainly because of lack of adequate
tariff actions during the transition period between Governments. Recognizing
the unsatisfactory financial position of the sector, the new Government, with
the technical support of Bank staff, completed in September 1985, the pre-
paration of the first version of the PSRP, which included significant
Government equity contributions ($1.2 billion each in 1986 and 1987) and sub-
stantial tariff increases during the 1985-89 period. The 1986 equity con-
tributions were to be financed by external sources, mainly the Bank and
commercial banks. As envisaged in the original PSRP, during the second
semester of 1985 tariff increases of about 20%, in real terms, were imple-
mented. Rovever, during January and February 1986, nominal tariff increases
were not sufficient to cover the high and increasing rates of inflstion
during those months.
73.       Mainly because of such rates of inflation, on February 28, 1986,
the Government enacted its program for stabilization and monetary reform
which introduced, among other measures, a freeze on prices, including elec-
tricity tariffs for the present, and potentially for a full year. This
reform affects substantially the finances of the sector. An increase of
about 28%, in real terms, had been envisaged in the original PSRP for the
average tariff in 1986, over the average tariff of 1985. Under the new
macroeconomic conditions, this increase is expected to be only 1.2% in real
terms. As a result of the freeze in tariffs and other actions considered by
the Government, in order to have a reasonable funding mix the Government has
agreed to make payments of US$1.8 billion in 1986, of which US$1.63 billion
would be in the form of equity contributions and US$170 million in
reimbursement for expenditures incurred by the sector on behalf of the
Government for the nuclear program. During loan negotiations, it was agreed
that the US$1.8 billion of payments to be made by the Government to the
sector in 1986 will be funded as follows: US$600 million from its own
resources, US$500 million from the Bank loan, and US$700 million from
cofinancing arrangements to be made with Bank assistance. Snould the
cofinancing not materialize or should it generate less resources than



- 22 -
envisaged, it was agreed that the Government contribution from Its own
resources would increase from US$600 million to US$800 million. The
remainder (US$500 million) would be covered by increases in the sector's
operational receipts, additional increases in equity contributions financed
by the Government's own resources, and/or postponement to 1987 of investments
included in the PSRP for 1986. In the event that such postponement occurs,
the Government agreed to increase the investment envisaged in the PSRP for
1987 by an equivalent amount and to provide the required financing for such
increase in investments as additional equity contributions over and above
those envisaged in the PSRP for 1987. Therefore, if the cofinancing
arrangement does not materialize, the Government contributions to the sector
in 1986 would be, at least, US$1.3 billion, including US$1.13 billion in
equity and US$170 million in payments of Government obligations to the
sector.
74.       The Government equity contributions aim at reducing the sector's
dependence on borrowings, and thus attain an adequate funding mix, for
financing its investment program. Under the revised PSRP, the Federal
Government would also make equity contributions of US$1.2 billion in 1987.
Both the 1986 and 1987 equity contributions will be transferred to individual
power utilities most in need of financial resources, under criteria and
rehabilitation plans satisfactory to the Bank. The allocation of equity
contributions, and the corresponding rehabilitation plans of the individual
utilities, aim at improving their financial condition and to diminish the
differences among them. The financial condition of the utilities will be
measured by the trend of their debt service coverage ratios. The
beneficiaries of the equity contributions will commit themselves to carry out
action plans, acceptable to the Government and the Bank, which aim at
improving their operational efficiency as a complement to the financial
rehabilitation objectives. Bank staff have discussed, with ELETROBRAS and
the four 'itilities selected to receive equity contributions, the work being
done by them in the preparation of the rehabilitation plans of the individual
companies. Such work --which is expected to be completed within the next two
or three weeks-- was found to be consistent with the criteria described
above. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
ELETROBRAS on those criteria. As a condition of loan effectiveness,
satisfactory rehabilitation plans for each of these utilities must have been
prepared and adopted, and ELETROBRAS and the beneficiaries must have taken
all corporate actions necessary to make the proposed equity contrivutions
legally possible.
75.       The revised PSRP aims at achieving the following rates of
remuneration: 5.0% in 1986, 6.4% in 1987, 7.7% in 1988 and 9.1% in 1989, in
accordance with the method of calculation established by Brazilian law. It
is also expected that the rate would reach at least 10% by 1990. It should
be noted, however, that if the rate of remuneration were to be calculated
including the reversion tax which is charged to consumers and remains in the
sector, the rates of remuneration would be 6.0% in 1986, 8.4% in 1987, 10.0%
in 1988 and 11.8% in 1989. These rates of remuneration would be achieved
through measures that would increase average sector revenues by about 20% in
1987, 18% in 1988 and 17% in 1989. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government for it to take all the necessary measures for the
sector to achieve the target rates of remuneration. Among such measures, the
Government has agreed that starting January 1, 1987 it would discontinue the
promotional tariffs for oil substitution. This single measure is expected to
increase the average sector revenue by about 6% in 1987.



- 23 -
76.       The financial plan reflects the constraints created on sector
finances by the macroeconomic framework within which it operates. Thus: (a)
the sector's dependence on non-consumer-based fund generation (equity
contributions and borrowings) has been prolonged because of the freeze on
prices enacted under the stabilitation program; (b) the repayment of the
existing debt of the sector is heavily concentrated in the next few years,
with more than $11 billion (or about 55% of the total outstanding long-term
debt) becoming due in the 1986-89 period; this situation contributes
substantially to the low level of net consumer-based funding shown in the
table below; and (c) under the above circumstances, the substantial equity
contributions included in the first two years of the projection period are
justified to reduce the sector's dependence on borrowings as a source of
financing its investment, so as to improve its funding mix. Within such
macroeconomic framework, the financial plan is satisfactory as the key
indicators show the positive trend expected for sector finances. The
financial plan for the sector is detailed in Annexes 3.6.1 through 3.6.4 of
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and is summarized in the following tables:
1986-1989 Financing Plan
US$ Million (March 1986 constant prices)
1986    1987    1988    1989    Total    Z
Net consumer-based funding (1,672)    562   2,040   3,886    4,817    24.3
Equity contributions         2,022   1,477      311      357    4,166    21.0
Sub-total            350   2,039   2,351   4,243    8,983    45.3
Borrowings a/                3,478   2,968   2,845   1,570   10,861    54.7
Total              3,828   5,007   5,196   5,813   19,844   100.0
= =N===a  =22%=c~
a/ Borrowings are considered net of loans to Itaipu and increase in working
capital.
POWER SECTOR PROJECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Y e a r                         1986      1987       1988      1989
Rate of Remuneration (Z) a/             5.0       6.4        7.7       9.1
Debt Service Coverage (times) b/        0.7        1.1       1.5        1.9
Debt Equity Ratio (%) c/              58/42     54/46      51/49     46/54
Self-Financing Ratio (ZJ d/           (43.7)     11.6       39.3      66.8
Average Tariff per kWh So:d e/
(in constant March 1986 US mills)  33.2        39.9      46.9       54.7
a/ Return oni remunerable investment (see Annex 2.1 of the SAR).
b/ Consumer based internal generation divided into total debt service
requirement, without adjusting for refinanced debt (see Annex 3.6.2 of the
SAR) .
c/ Ratio of long-term debt (including compulsory loan) to equity (including
reversion fund) (see Annex 3.6.3 of the SAR).
d/ Ratio of net consumer-based cash generation (after deductions for debt
service) to investment requirements, excluding loans to Itaipu (see Annex
3.6.2 of the SAR).
el Includes revenues from basic tariff, sole tax, and compulsory loan (see
- Annex 3.6.1 of the SAR).



- 24 -
Cofinancing
77.       In order to close the financial gap of the sector in 1986, the
Government has requested Bank assistance for obtaining resources through
cofinancing arrangements. This operation would aim to raise about US$700.0
million of "new money" for Brazil on a voluntary basis. For this purpose the
Government intends to make, at the appropriate time, informal contacts in the
market in order to determine the extent to which such operation is possible.
During negotiations, it was agreed that should such cofinancing operation
turn out not to be possible, the Government would provide these resources to
the sector in a manner acceptable to the Bank (para. 73).
Executing Agencies
78.       The borrower of the Bank loan will be the Government, which will
transfer an amount equivalent to the loan proceeds, in cruzados (Cz$), as
equity contributions to ELETROBRAS, which in turn will transfer these funds
as equity contributions to four of its operating subsidiaries (ELETRONORTE,
ELETROSUL, FURNAS and CHESF). This will improve the financial situation of
these companies and enable them to complete ongoing works, and start new ones
which are included in the 1986-1989 investment program.
79.       ELETROBRAS is a mixed economy corporation (sociedade de economia
mista) operating under MME. The Government owns 99.8% of company shares. In
its financing role, as development bank and holding company for the power
sector, ELETROBRAS finances projects of its subsidiaries and associated
companies with statutory resources, Government allocations, internal fund
generation, and local and foreign borrowings. Statutory resources include
the Compulsory Loan and the Global Reversion Fund (Annex 2.1 of the SAR).
80.       An administrative Board of Directors governs ELETROBRAS.  The Board
consists of the President (appointed by the President of the Republic); five
directors (elected at the General Shareholders meeting for a term of three
years); and six counselors (also elected for a term of three years by the
General Shareholders). Four of the counselors are associated with the public
companies and have experience in technology, finance, or business
management. Of the remaining two counselors , one represents public bodies
other than the Government; the other represents private shareholders.
81.       The beneficiaries of the proposed loan would be the four major
regional generation-transmission companies of ELETROBRAS: FURNAS, CHESF,
ELETROSUL, and ELETRONORTE. In 1985, these four companies had installed
generating capacity of 19,832 MW, provided 55% of all the electrical energy
consumed in Brazil, generated revenues amounting to about US$1.7 billion (in
mid-1985 prices), and employed 30,000 people. Typical of the organizational
structure of these companies is that of FURNAS. The need for financial
restructuring is greater for these companies than for other power utilities,
owing to the concentration in them of most of the sector's debt. The
Government appoints a Board composed of a President and five Executive
Directors, who are heads of the Departments of Engineering, Planning and
Construction; Operations; Administration and Contracts; Finance; and Nuclear
Generation. Additionally, the shareholders general assembly annually elects
a three-member Fiscal Council to review financial operations. The
organizational structure of FURNAS is sound, as are the organizational
structures of the other beneficiaries.



- 25 -
82.       The management systems of the beneficiaries are adequate --
financial planning, budgeting, reporting, accounting, and billing. These
companies prepare annual budgets and five-year financial forecasts which are
revised in the light of new information on a periodic basis. They maintain
satisfactory internal audit groups and good training facilities. Their
Independent external auditors have been satisfatory. The quality of their
managerial, administrative and technical staff is also very good.
83.       The Bank has made six prior loans to FURNAS amounting to US$396
million, three loans to ELETROSUL amounting to US$317 million, and two loans
to CHESF amounting to US$96 million. The Bank has also made additional loans
amounting to US$422 million through ELETROBRAS to benefit FURNAS and CHESF.
ELETRONORTE will benefit (US$28 million) from loan 2364-BR (US$250 million)
to ELETROBRAS. In general, the experience of the Bank with these companies
has been satisfactory.
Conditions of Disbursement
84.       The proposed loan will be disbursed in two tranches, of US$250
million each. Most of the key conditions for the release of both tranches
are related, in general, to the financial plans of the sector and of the
individual utilities, and, in particular, to the rebuilding of their equity
capital and--for the second tranche-to the increase in the average sector
revenues planned for 1987. As indicated in para. 73, if the commercial banks
provide, before the end of 1986, US$700 million within the cofinancing
arrangement envisaged in the PSRP, the Government would provide US$1.8
billion to the power sector during the year. If the planned cofinancing
arrangement does not materialize, the Government contributions to the sector
in 1986 would be at least US$1.3 billion. The remaining US$500 million gap
would then be covered by additional sectoral operating revenues, additional
equity contributions financed by the Government's own resources, and/or
postponement until 1987 of investment expenditures. Out of the US$1.3
billion in Government contributions, US$670 million require an additional
budget allocation. The remainder will be made effective by turning into
equity US$630 million of debt repayments which are due to be made by the
sector to the Government during 1986; these US$630 million do not require a
budget allocation. In this framework, the specific conditions for releasing
the two tranches would be as follows:
(a) the first tranche will be disbursed upon loan effectiveness,
which will be subject to receipt of evidence satisfactory to
the Bank on compliance with the following conditions: (i) that
the Government has effectively allocated in the 1986 budget an
additional US$670 million; (ii) that the amount of about US$3
billion of new borrowings envisaged in the PSRP is available to
the sector in 1986; (iii) that satisfactory rehabilitation
plans for the utilities selected to receive equity
contributions have been prepared and adopted; (iv) that the
stockholders of ELETROBRAS have approved and subscribed a
capital increase equivalent to not less than US$1.13 billion
(see para. 73) in terms satisfactory to the Bank; (v) that the
Government has paid in equity contributions of US$300 million



- 26 -
equivalent; and (vi) that the stockholders of the beneficiaries
have approved capital increases of US$1.13 billion, consistent
with their rehabilitation plans and in terms satisfactory to
the Bank, and ELETROBRAS has subscribed the shares
corresponding to such capital increases; and
(b) the second tranche will be disbursed after the Bank: (i) has
reviewed and is satisfied with the sectoral performance up to
then; (ii) has received an acceptable 1986 to 1990 Sectoral
Plan; (iii) is satisfied with progress in the rehabilitation
process of the selected utilities in accordance with the
rehabilitation programs agreed upon with the Bank; (iv) has
received an action plan acceptable to the Bank for achieving
the target rate of remuneration envisaged in the PSRP for 1987;
(v) has confirmed that the Government has paid in, as equity
contributions, the total amount of ELETROBRAS' capital
increase, except the amount equivalent to the second tranche of
the proposed loan; the resources of the second tranche will be
paid in as capital for the sector immediately after
disbursement by the Bank; (vi) has confirmed that the
Government has reimbursed the US$170 million referred to in
para. 73 to the sector; and (vii) has received, and found
satisfactory, a Master Plan for strengthening the sector's
environmental units. The release of the second tranche will
also depend upon the progress made by the Government and the
sector in the areas covered by dated covenants of the proposed
loan, which are scheduled to be complied with before then.
Disbursements
85.       Disbursements would be made against acceptable general imports from
eligible countries and territories, imported to Brazil and paid after January
1, 1986. Proceeds of the loan will be disbursed based on satisfactory
evidence of: (i) physical entry of the imports into the country; (ii) actual
payment in foreign exchange for such imports; and (iii) evidence that the
prices of the imported goods are reasonable and in line with international
price quotations and past experience. The Central Bank will ensure that
these requirements are met for all imports to be financed with loan
resources.
86.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two tranches of
US$250 million each. Bank disbursements would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, each of not less than US$1 million, to be
submitted to the Bank by the Central Bank. The detailed documentation
evidencing expenditures, which is to be retained by the Central Bank and
available for inspection by the Bank, will be duly audited in accordance to
standard Bank requirements. Based on estimated import requirements by the
country, disbursements are expected to be completed before December 31, 1986
or about five months after loan effectiveness. It is expected that US$250
million (first tranche) will be disbursed no later than July 31, 1986, and
the remaining US$250 million no later than December 31, 1986. The loan
closing date is June 30, 1987. Given the nature of the proposed loan, IBRD
standard project disbursement profiles are not applicable.



- 27 -
Procurement
87.       The general imports would be made by public entities and private
sector importers, under procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for the procurement of imports exceeding US$5 million would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with Bank procurement guidelines. Contracts under US$5
million would be procured through normal procedures used by the importing
entities. The Bank has reviewed the procurement procedures used by Brazilian
companies for a substantial number of commodities -including commodities
imported, directly or indirectly, for the power sector such as copper, steel,
metallurgical coal, insulating oil, and other insulating materials-- and
found them to be satisfactory.
Economic Justification
88.       The economic analysis was based on the 1986-1989 investment program
for the sector which includes all the investments in generation (including
nuclear plants and 50% of the investments in Itaipu, which represents the
Brazil's share in the project), transmission, and distribution facilities
necessary to meet electricity demand.
89.       The proposed investment program is based on the -Plano 2000", a
comprehensive long-term planning study completed in 1982, which is considered
to be a sound development pi-gram for the sector. The investment program
maintains the least cost expansion sequence of hydroelectric projects recom-
mended in the Plano 2000 (para. 61).
90.       The rate of return on the investment program was estimated as being
the discount rate which equalizes the present value of the economic net cost
and benefit streams associated with the investment program. The economic net
cost streams include: (i) capital investments on generation (para. 88),
transmission, sub-transmission, distribution and general investments
(building, furniture, etc.) to be made by the sector; (ii) costs of operation
and maintenance related to the capital investments and (iii) 50% of the
energy purchased from Itaipu, which represents Paraguay's share in the
project, at the unit cost estimated in the PSRP. Since benefits in the power
sector arising from the investment program cannot be quantified with
precision, the use of a proxy is required. Therefore, the economic net
benefit streams were measured by the forecast revenues from the incremental
sales of electricity, attributed to the facilities included in the investmen;
program, on the basis of retail tariffs (inclusive of the sole tax) required
to attain the legal 10% rate of remuneration by 1990.
91.       The rate of return of the sector 1986-1989 investment program
utilizing the above tariffs is estimated at about 10.6%. Sensitivity
analyses were carried out to evaluate the impact on this return as a result
of possible changes in the sector capital investment cost and in revenues.
If investments are increased by 10% or revenues are decreased by the same
percentage, the rate of return will drop to 9.6% and 9.0%, respectively. If
investments are increased by 10% and revenues are decreased by 10% simul-
taneously, the rate of return will drop to 8.1%. If the sector revenues are
valued at tariff levels prevailing in March 1986, the rate of return
is 1.6Z.



- 28 -
92.       The above results confirm that, if the planned tariff increases are
adopted on schedule, the rate of return of the 1986-1989 investment program
(10.6%) would be very close to the opportunity cost of capital in Brazil
(about 11%). The above rate of return does not fully measure some of the
benefits to society such as the social benefits of residential and public
uses, or the indirect benefit to industry and commerce, whose production and
employment depend on reliable electricity supply. In this case, the rate of
return of the base case (10.6%) is deemed to be a minimum measure of the
benefits conferred by the project.
Environmental Aspects
93.       The increasing demand for electricity in Brazil requires the
construction of large hydroelectric generating schemes, which in general have
an important impact in the social aspects of surrounding human communities,
including the Amerindian population, and in the balance of ecological
systems. For this purpose ELETROBRAS and its regional affiliates have
created environmental units, carried out studies on this subject and issued
guidelines which addressed the problems derived by the construction of the
above power schemes. However, neither the environmental units have had a
fully active role nor the guidelines were adequately enforced because of the
lack of: (i) legal enforcement mechanisms; (ii) institutional coordination;
(iii) specialized staff in social and environmental sciences; and (iv)
adequate relevance given to environmental aspects.
94.       The sector autho:ities are aware of the above issues and they
should implement corrective measures to adequately preserve the environment
in the areas affected by the construction of such projects. To achieve this,
agreement was reached at negotiations with ELETROBRAS that it will submit to
the Bank an acceptable Master Plan which will include the implementation of
specific measures to protect and enhance the adaptive capacity of the
riverine ecosystem and humai communities. This plan will address aspects
related to: Ci) resettlement of the population to be affected by the
Itaparica hydro-plant presently under construction; and (ii) strengthen the
sector environmental units through training, research, legal assistance,
staffing and funding. Annex 3.9 of the SAR includes specific criteria for
the preparation of the Master Plan. At negotiations it was agreed that: (i)
not later than July 15, 1986, ELETROBRAS will submit to the Bank a
satisfactory plan to resettle the population to be affected by Itaparica
hydro plant; (ii) as a condition for releasing the second tranche of the Bank
loan, tLi Government will submit to the Bank a satisfactory Master Plan for
strengthening the sector environmental units, and (iii) not later than
October 15, 1986, the Bank will review whether the progress achieved in the
initial implementation of the Itaparica resettlement program is satisfactory.
Risks
95.       No particular physica'l risks are expected to affect the implementa-
tion of the sector's 1986-1989 investment program as similar works (genera-
tion, transmission and distribution) have been successfully constructed in
the past. The power sector has been adversely affected by financial problems
which are now being addressed under this operation. Insufficient action or
failure to implement the agreed financial measures may adversely affect the
sector finances and result in delays in the execution of the program.



- 29 -
96.       It is still too early to predict all the effects on the sector of
the macroeconomic measures taken by the Government, and there are great
uncertainties regarding their possible influence on costs and prices. For
this reason, the investment plan has been prepared without price
contingencies and the financial projections are In constant monetary units.
As such, the projections are an expression of the expected trends in sector
finances, as represented by improvements in the forecast funding mix and
financial indicators. The risk of deviations to occur from 1987 onwards will
be addressed through specific yearly measures to be defined during the annual
reviews of the updated investment and financial plans for the sector (para.
84(b)). The 1986 figures represent the best estimate at this time, and the
net deviations are expected not to be significant. For instance, the price
contingency for the 1986 investment program would be 3.6% or about US$138
million, which is within the margin of error for this type of estimates.
However, to address the risk of possible deviations in 1986, during negotia-
tions agreement was reached with the Government to provide the sector with
adequate funding for the timely implementation of the investment plan. In
addition, a particular condition was included in the legal documents for the
provision of financing of additional fuel costs that could be derived from
the operation of thermal plants, over and above the estimates of the PSRP.
Moreover, with a view also to reducing the risk of substantial deviations
from the course of action envisioned in the PSRP, the Bank intends to
supervise its implementation closely.
-ART V - RECcnMMAIoN
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
May 29, 1986



-30-                                                  ANNEX I
Page  1 of  7
*LAZEL                - SOCIAL INDICTORS DATA SKUT
sRAZUL                             R          FNCE GROUPS  ewEITED AVERACESI
MOST                    (HOST RCCENT USTIMATC) /b
RECENT          MIDDLE INCOM           MIDDL INCOM
196eotk    a97Dso   zSnilw        LAY. AMERICA & CAR           UOPI
-(tuna  s. a)
TOTAL                           6512.0     8512.0      3512.0.
ACKICULTURAL                    1636.4     1981.2      2376.7
CUP PSI CAPITA CUO .)                            ..       1850.0           1875.9                   2144.3
WEST 011S81ION Pf CWXITA
(XZLOUSIU  OF OIL EQUIVALENT)    264.0      412.0       740.0            993.6                   2119.8
PaPITN  AIIa  ma STANSIC
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (TNOUSADS)  72594.0    93847.0   129662.0
UDEAI POPULAnON (I OP TOTAL)      44.9       55.8        70.7             67.7                     47.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPUIATION IN YEAR 2000 (KILL)                        178.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                          298.0
POPULATION HMOMNTUM                                     2.8
POPULATIOIN DESITY
PER SQ. XD.                      8.5        11.3       15.2             48.0                     84.7
PER SQ. NM. AC1t. LAND          44.4       48.4        53.4             91.1                    166.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 RS                        43.5       42.6        37.2             38.5                     31.2
15-64 YS                        53.8       54.2        58.7             57.1                     61.5
65 AND ABOVE                     2.6        3.0         4.0              4.2                      7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE C2)
TOTAL                            3.1        2.8         2.3               2.4                     1.6
URBN                             5.7        5.0         4.0               3.6                     3.7
CRUDE CLIE  RATE (PER THOUS)      42.7       35.0        30.3             30.9                     23.4
CRUDE DEA7H RATE (PER TIUS)       12.9        10.3        8.2              8.0                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0        2.4         1.9              2.0                      1.5
FAMILY PLANIaNC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)        ..        111.0
USERS (2 oF MARRIED WOEN)        ..          ..        50.o             45.3
FMO An SOKLII
INDEX OF 0OO0 PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0      102.0       130.0            109.6                    109.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CR OF REQUEDMETS)     101.0       103.0      111.0             113.2                   131.5
PROTEINS (GRA.'S PER DAY)       60.0       60.0        64.0             69.4                     92.4
OF WNICH ANtIAL AND PULSE      35.0        34.0       36.0 /c          34.2                     34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       16.2        11.8        6.0              4.8                      4.7
LTIP! EXPECT. AT LIRTE (YEARS)    54.7       58.9        63.7             64.8                     67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PAR THOOS)    115.5       95.5        70.0             59.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER CZPOP)
TOTAL                            *          55.0       71.0 Id          65.3                     70.2
URBAN                            ..         78.0       SO.O 7;           76.5                    89.4
RURAL                            ..        28.0        51.0 d           44.2                     57.0
ACCESS TO EXCKETA DISPOSAL
(2 or POPULATION)
TOTAL                            *         58.0        64.8 Ie          56.3                     59.6
URBAN                            ..        85.0        83.77;           73.4                     65.9
RURAL                            ..        24.0        31.7 7;          25.5                     47.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA         2210.0     2130.0         ..             1909.7                  1070.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON         2810.0     1120.0         ..             808.2                    769.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          310.0       270.0      250.0 le          362.0                   328.3
URBAN                          250.0       320.0        ..             422.0                    201.9
RURAL                            ..          ..         ..             2716.7                  4519.7
ADlISSIONS PER HOSPITAL IDM        ..         18.4        ..              27.5                     20.0
SaSx
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.1 .8                4.9 /e
URBAN                            .-         4.6         4.7 7*-
RURAL                            ..         5.2         5.3 7e
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROK
TOTAL                            ..          1.1
URUN                             ..         1.0
RURAL                            -'         1.2
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                           38.7       47.6        67.4 /d
URBAN                            ..         75.6       88.5 7
RURAL                            ..         8.4        20.6 7;.



- 31 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
BRAZIL                  SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                              REFRNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) j
HOST                    (HOST RECENT ESTIHATE) /b
RECENT           NIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOW
196OL-b    i974 zKT0   i EIATEb    LAT. AMERICA & CAR           EUROPE
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRIMtAY   TOTAL                  95.0        84.0       96.0 /f           106.7                    101.9
HALE                   97.0       84.0        98.0 r7          108.5                    106.2
FEMALE                 93.0       84.0        93.0 r7          104.6                     97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 11.0        26.0       32.0 jt            44.2                     57.5
HALE                   11.0       26.0        29.0 /t,g         42.7                     64.9
DEHALS                 10.0       27.0        35.0              44.9                     50.0
VOCATIOEAL (2 OF SECONDART)         0.0        0.0         0.1 Ia            13.3                    21.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          33.0        28.0       26.0 /h            29.9                     25.1
SCDONDARY                        13.0        12.0       14.0 r             16.7                     19.1
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP         7.6        16.6       48.9 /d           46.0                      54.2
RADIO RUCEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       65.4       108.4      354.9             328.3                    170.7
TV REcErvoRS/THOUSAND POP          16.5       44.3       122.2              112.4                   149.3
NEWSPAPZt ("DAILY GENERAL
[CEDrT) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           52.9        35.6       43.0 /h           81.1                      A7.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPlTA     4.4        2.0         1.1                2.4                      2.7
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)       23326.0    30411.0    43736.0
FEMALE (PERcENT)                 17.2        20.1       23.5               23.6                     36.3
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            51.9        45.6       29.9 /d            31.4                     40.8
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)               14.8        18.3       24.4 71-           24.3                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RAME (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            32.1        31.7       33.7               33.5                     43.1
MALE                             52.7        50.3       51.6               51.3                     55.1
FEMALE                           11.2        12.8       15.6               15.9                     31.4
ECONCIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.4         1.4        1.2                1.3                      0.9
flKE DISTRIUU7TIU
PZRSZNT OF PRVATE  COmE
REEVED BY
RICGHST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS
HICHES 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS         60.0        63.5
LOWEST 210 OF HOUSKUILOS          3.8         3.2
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHDS           10.6         9.0
ron T - S
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERYI DEcWS
LVEL (US PC CAPTW
URBN                              ..                                      288 3
RURAL                                          .       150.0 Ic           185.3
ESTIMATD RLATIVE POVERIT INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
U1RAN                             ..          ..       465.0 /c           519.8
RURAL                                                  332.0 7r           359.7
ESTITED PoP. BELCH ABSOLUTE
POVEM  INCOME LEVEL (2)
URON                              ..
RURAL                             ..
Nor AVALABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
1a  The group venrges for each Indicator are popultin-weighe4d arictbetic means  Coverage of catriem
among the indicacor depends on avadlability of data and 1 not unlform.
lb  Unles otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year betwee 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; and data for "fot Recant Estimte" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977; Id 1980; Ie 1976; /f Beginning 1973, primry and aecondary education cover age groups 7-14 and
15-17 intekd of  o10 and 11-17 in earlier yers; tbhrefore, most recent estimtes are not comarapble
udth earller data; IA 1978; /h 1979.
JUNE. 1985



-32-                                              tnEX I
Page 3 of 7
DEMNmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATO0S
Note: Althougbhhedaa areudrawm n fo I - enalyjudgdsthemoatauthoritativeandrdibleb itshuldaWimobentedtbltheymynolbeinienauonaily
compable bem  of the lack of stmndardid deaton and conoeptud by dilemnt countr In colieting the data. The data are, nonethel, ueful to
describeda ofrmgnitude indiate trend anndchuarac ertain majorditrenebetwecountrin.
The referne group ae (1) the ame mcountry group Of the subject country and (2) a country group with somwhat higher averge income then the country
vW of e subjet country (except for "High Incme Oil Expoters" group when "Middle Income North Arcs and Middle Est" ischosen becus of tronger
soco-cultund el itias) In the rneese group dat the avers are population weighted arithmetic menn for sesh Indicator and shown only when najonrty
of the counis In a group hu data for that indkr Since the coverage ofcountries among the indkiters depends on the availability ofdata and is not uniform.
caudon must be ercisd in rting avacps ofne indicator to anher. Tbee averap am only ueful in coinpanag the value ro,ne indicato at a tirme amng
the Country a  ferene group.
AREA (thouand sq.kmL)                                          Crxdr Wth Rate (per theasanfj-Number of live births in the year
Final-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crde Deat Rate (per tbmnd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agatufrul-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
prmnanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Grt. Repedn* a Rate-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World   FsU/   Pianniv-Accpeir  Aal (thossandsI-Annual num-
Brk Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                          ber ofacceptors of birth-cntrol devices underauspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primairy energy (coal and lignite    Fsify Plan g-UJsers (percent efuraed wuren)-The percn-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is nmasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Fetal Pepafte, Mid- Year (theasaad)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
arid 1983 data.
Urban Pbpatdon (percew tof lJora-Ratio of urban to total       mnexofFeedProdsciePerCapita(1969-71-10--index of per
popuranit depffciat perenitieon    of urban ,    t  total      capita annual production of all Food commodities. Production
population; daferent defnitions of uran areas may afect compar-  exdudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.    include primary conmmodities (C.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Pepuie Prejectiens                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Posadaion a year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infornnation on  vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these pameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected 't rive-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Pr Capita Sapply of Calars (percent ofreqirenencs)-Comput-
Stationary popularion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs For normal activity
sie was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populasion Momrewn-Is the tendency for population growth to    Pr Capita Supply of Prein (granrs per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time thaL replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply offood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countrics established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replac-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward, 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PAgio  Deirsk                                                  average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ama; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Preeia Supply From Anima and Phie-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrirdtmral land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and puses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
PopuatD   Age Structure (percent)--Children (0-14 years). work-  Clild (ages l-4) Death Rat (per thoasaast)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pepaladen Greueh Rate (percentj--cotai-Annual growth rates of  from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
PAolation GCnnrti  Rate (perceat)-arhan-Annual growth rates     life Erpectacy at Birh (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 33                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of Its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pup-teacher Aade - primary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data,                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lfhmr M    eaft Rot (per thubmv d)-Number of infants who die  teacherS in the corresponding lekvs.
bore reaching one year of age per thousand live births In a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Access t Sof     er Wf(petr of popoltielm)--t., wam  ed       Paeer Cs (per  ea.sam  popullaesin-Passenger car com.
rnd-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with resonable  pris motor cars seating ke  than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface water or  ances hearses and military vehicls.
untreated but uncontaminated water such a that from protected  Rib Remwe  (per thwamandppulatiom)-All types or reiven
borhole sprins and antary wells)a percentageso ortheir repec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand or population;
dve populations In an urbn ar  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receiver in countries and in years when
ocated not more than 200 neters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years may
u being withir. rcasonable access of that houe. In rural areas  not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or mnember of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  rv Rece/E  (per thaiMaidpepulot )-TV reivers for broadcast
infthn th  ail'swt   ed                                  to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
in fetching the fopswater needs.                              r eivers in countries and in years when regisdtration of TV sets wa
Access to Exrete aisp., ~(pcent of         Dv, w              in effect.
ed rat-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as prcentges of their respective populations.   wspp          u (pe thowandphosthevr
Excreta disposal may include the coliecdon and disposal, with or  age circulation of 'daily general intrest newspaper" defined a a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at lest four times a week.
Ptp.lasi.m per Physklpo-Flpulation divided by number of prac-  CGeie Anna Attexndae per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admisions to
PopiA mm per Nanri Person-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
Popla. pfr Hoptl  -e"wa, wham, and raI-Ppulation              T         rs m)  Eo                 call act   ersons in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  luding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewive
hospial bds aailale i pube an priate.Sena  andstudents, ecm.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehavalabion bceand piate,s eneal and speiale   various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  FemaI fprcent-Femnale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agfinhmre (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        Industry (perman)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adwisins per Hospital ArF4-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data,
Artic    n Rat (peracentj-total. nwk, andf_k-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Averwe Size of HeasehM (permons pgr haeusho-teoh. wham,       as percentages of total, male and female population of all aes
enAmel-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates rflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Are  Ndsber of Persn per Ruoo-t,rtal, uwhan and rwra-         Economic Depedency Rabo-Ratio of population under 15, and
Avenge number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Percenudge Of DWels With ECtiCity-toaL whe, and rural-        Pewcage of Tel Dipsahk Ime (bha  in c#A and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tap of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adsted En&met Ratios                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prinmry school - tozat. male and femal-Gross total, male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primry level as percentages of  Estiated Absolse Poverty Inc1ne Level (US1 per capita)-  hen
rspective primary school-age populations. While many countries    med rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider pnmary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esimted Relai Poverty ncme Leveld (Wper capirra)-mran
education. gross enrolment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rmra-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prmary-school  average per capita personal incone of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary schol - otal, mal and female-Computed as above      living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Esiimated Popah    Below Ahsofte Poverty Incom  Levd (perF
mary instruction; provides general, vocational, or teacher training  aeJ_-m6ar anaf oral- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually or 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
once courses are genemraly excluded.
Voaiona Enroimeni (percnt of secondy)-Vocational institu-               Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial, or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



AM=I
MAZ?! - EZ?l1 UD SA
Ibftp~1aLm      129.7 o1lan (mdd-1983)
06 rkr Capial 0361,990 ( 19613)
tE  Utlfimn a.                                                     Aual _ IZLh RatL (2)
InditaLor                    (1984)                              ALual                                                          Pro juCLad
1975     11w      1981      192        1913      I98'd          11915/    1916      1967      196       199       N99
111M AG=U
_ Dautc PnWWAc_S              212,3D           566      7.2     -1.6       0.9       -3.2       4.5            8.3   b .2          7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
AnriAwiu2 21,238                             2.7      6.2      6.4      -2.5         2.2      4.3           L8         2.0       4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5
IbuLy                        R,7M2           5.3      7.9    -5.2        0.8       -6.8       5.9            9.0       LD.0      .5        8.5       8.5       L5
S    cVLOM                  103,825         10.3      7.3    -0.1         17        -1.5      3.0            7.8       6.0       6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5
Lnuwien                       1b5,571         L4        3.5      0.2       3.3       -2.0       0.6            L3        4.7       5.2       6.5       6.3       6.1
GCoe  tn b                     34.617         -7.0     12.1   -15.9       -4.2      -17.5       1.0           12.2      24.9      12.3      12.0      11.8      11.6
4,onA of 08s                   29,399         ILA      2Z.7     20.9      ..4         13.      24.9          -3.2       -1.0       SA        3.4       2.3       5.3
won. of dCS                    17.t65        -9.6       1.8   -13.4       -5.2      -17.2    -4.5            -3.2       22.0       1.5      10.7       8.1       9.7
emn  JuonimI SaIrg             23.818         -6.4     II.b    -16.6      -IO.b      -3.6      22.6           11.7      26.3      15.0      11.3      11.1      12.6
Priam
GDP teflawn (1970400)                        305      2,955    5.1..    1,1.480     2.241   90.541
1>dmp  eaU taumua.crS$)                       Y.l      52.7     93.1      179.5      577.0   1846.9
9.hn of GOP EL NAdt. Pdm  (Z)                              A wm Amuu mm. Ct)
(AL OAat Prim)                                       (AL axt. t 191. Prim)
1975      1980       1985/d    1990/c                        197340   190M45   19840
Grom Dfaitic Pki,t                    [OD.      IO.O      mm.       100.0                           6.5        0.8       6.8
Agi1uamu                             9.2       11.0      11.5      10.1                           9.5        2.2       4.1
tnCbtry                             31.1      2.8        29.8      32.1                           4.6      -0.3      L8
Swtte.                              13.6      44.8       48.7      47.8                           7.8        1.3       L4
G.uwptim-                             76.6      81.3       78.0      74.3                           7.7      -IA        5.8
-n_a iJ.,rUb                          2.3       21.1       17.0      24.0                          2L8        4.2       13.7
bwot. GM9                              7.5       8.8       12.5      10.4                           6.4       14.5      3.2
imprut ows                            11.4      11.2       7.4        o.7                          -1.3      -1.8       9.3
Cam. NEtlini Sav1r                    Z2.1       16.1      17.1      23.0                          -1.6      -4.5       14.3
At o    of CU
(AL Ouent CQoadm Pric.)
Public Flrm  (Central Gam t)                              1970     1975    1979   1980/'  1981/   1962/
Oxn  hUWe                                                 16.6     19.8    20.8    2L1    18.9    21.2
ozrt bq,amum                                              14.4     15.8    17.6    19.8    20.2    25.4
&mlpm  (+) or Deficdt C-                                   2.2      4.0     3.2     0.3    -L4    -4.2
pta  Eq-Ai-                                               2.6      3.8     3.7     6.1      3.5     3.4
F5 cinu  Clet)                                              .4     -0.2     0.5     3.9      4.9     7.6
Otur lt-tH                        1975-4   195045 196,40
GlP (ki, late t2)                   7.0      0.5     7.3
AO  Per Capit (kwtd Rate CZ)       3.0      -1.9     5.0
BmW  °npr tth Rae (2)  6.5    -    -
ROX                                3.3      20.7     3.0
Sozu        Siwnv  vate            0.0       0.5     0.4
Impa1    Elm3icicy                -0.2     -2.4      1.4
/a At mulrt  rc I;    dA  am         f     at    er maw  ad  ill ect add d  to excisdm ot .-  raic t    ad sugdln.
7i  197$80 eatites am for grnvs  1       ;  incintaa for _ nt yir ar for fimd  meintm. with dA   ti ioth  nd_abm  in   mqian.
Tc Pnjecudl ys at  _art ri..
Td P1'reimmy.
F  E
7i. 198042 iodide  :,~ynt  e       unh    effeaai thu~, fu ye oet4E1  ad inor Qwrnut funds. a ill U    r               tr to uhe lil uterpia.
Mardi 21. 1986



35 -
rqqf 6 of I
USS IM NAL T4M /d
23 Saim.I   at                                           kWuuI Q-VAh1 Hali  (2)   (at awutun. 1970 prices)Ld
OwR.st Pr1omw
Indicator                     (1904)                                ACLual                                                        Pro jetLed
1975     1E8       1961      1912        1983     1996       1985tc    1996       198?       I99       1959      1990
dtbwh pea                       27,SO5           23.9     21.2       9.9      -3.0        27.5     24.1         L6       -1.0        5.4        3.4       2.3       5.3
PMrONT                         10357           30.7      20.4    46.6       -10.1        14.3      3J         24.5      -3.4        8.2       3.         3.6      3.6
nmfactu n/b                     16,648           0.0     22.5      40.6       7.4        43.5     2b.3        15.5        0.7       3.6        3.2       1.5       6.6
MNrdund1a  IqIodA               13.916         -15.0       1.4      -9.4     -20.3       -15.9     -2.2        -4.8      22.0        2.5       10.7       8.1       9.7
rbad 4 rAOLr I  bOwh           I,538           8.2      13.2    -54.6       -1.2        -8.1     -2.0         3.0      109.0     -43A        8.2        7.7      6.7
r'lbian                        6,896          -3.H      -9.8     -5.0       -2.6       -10.6    -1.7        -18.7      -2.3       11.3       H.6        2.8      9.9
HwhdIney md aqptnt             2.151            9.6      f.4      -6.9     -32.2       -13.0      h.4        185        37.3      2L4        15.6      14.2      11.6
OLheu                          3,3SI          -30.6     -2.2       3.6     -20.3       -2.3      2D.9       .9.0        B.0       20.9       10.1       9.4       8.6
Prt
BqirtPrim Ind                                     89       147        121       114         97       100         97       205        109        116       127       139
bLgn Priceln                                      71       125        138       152        143      I20          99        96   9S             105        112       [10
1a   of Tuo de 12dt                               125      118        93         75        tA        I00         98        112       110        111       123       116
OupaatLo  of lrtmdim. Tde (Z)                                  Aberap Amafi !nmm   (Z)
(at. aumt Prtc)                                         UL.stmtc 1970 t    rOpdn)ld
1975       199D      1956       1990                           1975-0    1980-s   ISS90
3von                                   2. 10        . 0l    103.0     101.0                            5.8       11.        3.2
fPry/a                                62.7      64.        41.2      41.2                             1.1        8.6       3.6
S'bmiac,zmtu b                        37.3       55.2      58.8      5.                              12 /a   ZLZ           3.0
IOrM                                    100       I0.0      IC0.0      IO200                           -1.4      -2.7       10.4
FbOd ia Couksr CGaNI                   9.1       11.1      12.0       10.8                           17.5    -- 4.5        7.9
fLmlam                                25.4      46.4       42.1     3X.5                              4.3      -7.3        6.4
MKhdu      d  lpz1*dt                 26.5       15.4      19.2      26.3                            -7.5       -3.4      l12
aut.                                  39.3      D.1        26.7      2b.4                            -1.9       -3.1       9.9
Sam Of Tra  uth                   9m  of trade ith          se of lAde With Otl
tu6mr2al Cntrln  (2)            1bauap1zg Catrs (2)  b wcizw  Cmatriln CZ)
Drctm of T e                        1975      1990    1583          1975     1990    1953          1975     19H0    1983
E prt                              02       57.3    5L7           23.5     24.5    7.9           La       10.2      8.8
1Mrtu                             67.3      41.8    37.1          8.7       1'.8    17.7        21.1      41.1    41.6
/a  F- thie   Zad 1981-1990. Prlimay PM.htt hilude t-              MD&  pun pho  m-a.
/  Fobr the  Id  175-1980.   mir  incha at1w Room.
.T fteilniiray.
d  PojwxMic   laparta, wd sowis -  at 1984 pWLs.
Murd 21. 198



- 36 -
BUmz OP raven. smiumm  crita sm "se
(05 Itlitte I GALo rret Price.)
PSIRoL5@.,        529.7 stitie  (id1911i)
GOuP Par Cpttet  0s5,390 (liSt)
5,75       1imU        pos         1592        1931 1     lms         loss        89i        1957        si's.      194i        In
Ket Inaerts of Coeds sd S2retc.s        -4,702    -12.144    -11.192    -14,241         -6210          14)       -09      -1.741        -708       1,oU      -1. ,1         471
Emperis Of Coeds                       5,070      20.132       1.213    a2n,517      28,59       21,005      25.419      27.242     29,191      1310145    2,981       42,412
I_nre Of Coed                         12.210      22.915      22,N01     19.1rt      55,429      13.914      1.1559     15,554    184.4        19,014      22,01       7 2.199
La Vector Inrns                       -1.133      -0.421     -9,511    -11,935    -50,131    -10,91         -11.430    -I,t13    -11,255    -11,b4b    -12,001    -12,111
Cft sbiCh ItLfern  PSYMts           (2,542)    (4.13       (7,9445    (9,3245      (5,472)    (9,.45)   (9,311)       (5,744)    (9,033)    (9,2193    (9,5193   (9,%51)
-m  tr debt)
Hot Nan-rector Sorvlas                -1,429      -1.120      -2.513     -3,50       -2,407      -1,745      -1.719     -I.729     -2,571      -1.19       -4,2h4      -5,8171
NtL Tranfers                                 1          52h        log         -to0        l05         172        s1i           0          0           0                      0
correct Accont  l-c.                    -_,59    -'12,1435    -85,004    -14,117       -4,142         117        -n49     -1,751        -lO      -8,011      -1.451        -475
0lrCL Privet. 1,vatcnL                     992       1.121       1,5.5         SoI         044       1.071        79h         791        hi9       3.03       15,247      8,029
MbLT tAns (Cet)                          4,510       *,493       5.50       7.41"      7,3231      9,22 2        14        2.681      2,924       1,4ib9     4,4084      3.l19
Cros 1llbar_ne to                     (4.952)   (115112)   (14,045)   t154,533   (111903)    1Ibo19m         10,4)1    15*45        150224      17.528     5o.12       17m.no
4Acrtlcstlts                          12,8121    (4,520)   (t'.11)    (7,4841    11 519)L    7,81b            9,757     lI.b70      52,102     131,02      14.040      14,n23
Rrsailltn Lama Abrad (RAm                 -190         -27        4i         -N94          82         1D4        b00      -1,400     -1.249      -2,071      -2,130    -2,410
tIet.r Clpttal ,.uclodlcd errors
end  e lsot3) -                                     ,442       2,sn        2.70b     -15S91      -1.062      -8,204        389        499          4       -148        -45,)
Chs.e In l.  -srre  I- IIdtates
s-cress.)1.225                                   2.159       -449       4,155          24     -1,521        -417        -774       -124        -959       -n97      -1,244
.Lar_Lttnal teesrss.                     1,7'9       6.912       7,505      3,250       1,717      51,944      12.41    18,207       52,54        '   14,14  85,151     1b.1%7
(of wht:h .Id)                           16  ,143               905          01        207         .s..       ..4.       ".,.        n.,.        .5.         .5,.       ..5.
Ils.rv    es Ma.Lb. si   p-ertLo EOPS)        1.1         3.0        3.1         5.4         2.1         5.2        8.9         1.9        7.4         b.9        4.4         1.9
Keterel Csfltal sri Dab.
Gress Oloboresnsec                       4.922      11.8115     5.045       14.95      10.902     56.0"       50.55       14.3152    180224      17,122     15.125      17.0b4
OffIde    Crest.                        -           -           -           -          _           -           -          _           _          _           _ 
Cecceslonal   e.-.                       102          19          39        I5o        -           _           -          -           _          _                       _
OeC                                     57          56          17         lO-
OPlC                                  -           -           -          -           -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -
IDA                                   -           -          -            _          _           _          -           _           _          _           -           _
fther                                   IS           3           2       -           -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -
N-concesslssl Lass.                    4,550      ,15194      54,024      14,801     80,598      14,099      5n,b51     104352      14,24I    17,122    18517J         17,600
OffiCta1  oP.spri Credits              355         452         851         542      2,9  3.0    1.0?        i,250       3,200      8,550      1.295       8.2110      1.604
LORD                                   250         143         389 321              1.20        8 ,294       790      15409        8,715      1.529       5,310       1.SS5
rab-r 4.1tiLteri                        519        Ins         1590        31         217         249         259        232        225         307         3171        421
Prir.                                4.n10      30,853      54,sb52    83,0         5,3718     11,225      5,152       X51,558    81,05      t31,47      148.17      13.721
7!terol Debt
Debt O.sLta,diag sad btebureed        23.445      26.499      b4,425     73,034      79.5,u       5,.11      6,017      915,99      94,421     95,291    802,1)9    105.9"9
PebItIcl.bltcly O Cersteed          183,49      39,594      *44,33     49,911      5,048a    b9.357        U ,017     95,699     94,421      95,291    102,131      105,995
Priets  O-Ge-ratsod                  9.,92      54.b05      195792     21,121      21S512      19,229     s..          o         n_.         nA n.e                  n.
UtdIsb,rnd De,bt                       3.741      11.021      12.443      14.322      81,917     13,727      13.504     54.933    15,452       15.354      15,550      81,1184
1-50 115Ps135  (2)
r1e dt-bu_*IeectotL1 lross
dleaburesmste                3. 5        3.2        2.          4.2.       11.8        b.9         7.4        8.4        10.1        10.7       80.2        30.5
te5D WOItmsL   DO0                         4.7         3.7         3.4         3.7        4,4        4*5          4.5       1*7         4.7         7.b         5.2         8.7
15e3 Debt sertetettel d.bt  errice        2.5         2.1         2.1         2.9        4.2         18          4.1 5      40          4.7        5.7          .4b        7.5
Debt Service
Tatel lattIce P epasne /b              3,470      13.143      85,333      16,525      8 1.21     20.975      19,011     21.415      22,331     22.73Z      23,459      23,574
l-tarsetf                            1,490       *.121       7.935      9,341       7,472       9,545      9,315       3,744      9,032       9,279       9,539       9,5Sb
Peyoyets -  S  sparts (GUS)               38,    . 36,            40.4        71.7       4*.0If      72.3        49.2       71.1        70.0       415         59.5        5S.7
Averag  Intest  etat on Se
erer-ca'd l1as, (2) /c                      8.7         12,7       15.1        12.7        11.4        11,9        9.4         9.4       9*2          9.2        9.2         9.0
Official                                   9.0         9.1        10.8        10.9        10.5                    . *        o                                  ..          ..
Priests Soere                              6.9        13.4        26.3        23.1        l.4                                                                              a .    e  .  ..
Avereg  li.rity of lleu
Coereet-ed lease Fsr-) Ie                   9.0         9.7         9.7        10.9         9.3        9.4        50.8        118.       11.6         1.5       11.5        11.5
offict 1e 35.                                         1 12.7      82.4        13.7        12.9         e                        .        .;         o          n
Priets Scrce                               4.9         9.9         9.0        10.2        5.4        n.e.                   n            .n                          n
As I of Deb Oute  dInl
March 1396
Sterity SLtrctLre of Potic ebt Oadsteedi.
Icteritiss de  Itira 5 y_r                                        b
tIrtwulec dae cithis 10 peers                                     95.
I terest SLVucLr. Oa Debt OtetsMdIN
IsLoret dee athls  th. first per                                 n.
s  Deoes   t Ieldr sold rad dollar e        ion  djeetuet.
7i  Tatereat sed  ecrttxtioe  -m sett   nod lors taws dbt.
T   Peblic Debt oly for 1971.
W    S eet OD   d , _d I _re             debt.
T7  Inclde  -ey aotwticatto s elly peld.
n.e  -Ibt ceelnbI-                                                                                                                                     Mrck 21. 1954



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Pege 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less   UndiB-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                  Purpose       Caccellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                 3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry          83.0        24.6
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education              32.0          .9
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development       11.0        1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development      24.0        11.6
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  127.4        8.1
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0         .2
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development      37.0        11.0
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0          .1
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development      26.0        14.6
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Development      70.0        18.5
1721     1979 COPEL                            Power                  109.0       22.3
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      31.4         6.8
1729     1979 Brazil                           Irrigation             28.0         3.1
1730-5   1979 Brazil                           Roads                  107.9        3.9
1822-5   1980 Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control      34.0        22.2
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0         .1
1839     1980 Brazil                           Urb&i. Transport       159.0       26.9
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           139.0       13.5
1867     1980 Brazil                           Education              32.0        14.2
1877     1980 State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development      63.0        45.5
1895     1980 ELETROSUL                        Power                  100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0        12.4
1939     1981 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  54.0        39.2
1965     1981 EBTU                             Urban Transport        90.0        46.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           180.0       69.5
1989     1981 Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture            29.0        13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             60.0        4.9
2060     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            67.0        25.6
2061     1982 Brazil                           Health                  13.0        4.5
2062     1982 Brazil                           Righways               240.0       60.8
2116     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       11.1
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      141.5
2163     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       16.2
2170     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9       99.2
2177     1982 Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       27.0
2193     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9        3.1
2196     1982 CVRD                             Iron Ore               304.5       69.3



-38 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                    Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      102.6
2249     1983  Banco National da Habitacao      Water Supply           302.3      134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0      358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development       67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7       40.1
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.0          .7
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            303.0         .5
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             65.2       57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  250.6      223.0
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  222.8      103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education               20.0       13.6
2412     1984  Brazil                           Education               40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                           Federal Highways       210.0      165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                  55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                           Health Studies           2.0        2.0
2488     1985  Brazil                           Developnent Banking   300.0       249.3
2489     1985  Brazil                           Education               72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.3       58.0
2524/1   1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.4       61.4
2532/T   1985  Brazil                           Rural WS&S Pilot        16.3       16.3
2563     1985  Brazil                           Railways               200.0      184.8
2564     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Transmission    400.0       388.8
2565     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0       301.0
2593/1   1985  Brazil                           Land Tenure            100.0      100.0
262373r  1985  State of Santa Catarina          Urban Development       24.5       24.5
2654/S   1985  Brazil                           Urban Reconstruction  100.0       100.0
Total                                               11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 2,169.37
Total now outstanding                                8,977.73
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                               3,890.5
A1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
7T Not yet signed.
Note:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 39 -
Pbw 3d 3
L  SW1U        I INt DHhDO    Camof Mwd 31I W)
Flask                                                                                                                      .mLt In USS Sdls
Yaw                                        bIigar                                     Typ bthme oft                                q E*ty    Tlbat
1957                 SLa     do kroU CLa. de Claetridddr                           Eletdrid  Eqpr                         2Loa       -        2.00
193                  OLLthrdt, S. A. COlul a P.n                                    lJIp UdPqr                            1.20       -        1.20
195S                D.L L. Plmtcn do lrasil. S. A.                                  atiw Pbata                            0.45       -       0.45
195R                WLUyrnomwrlid do 3adl. S. A. - Irnotas a Ordo                   tar Vhicle                            2.45       -        2.45
1959                Oiptis tEals. de  Onato  aLt Sd, S. A.                         a.t                                    1.20       -       1.20
1959                 Osmin  G         5lulo. S. &                                  RIp                                    4.00       -       4.00
19b6/19b/ 1972       Ams villan, S. A.                                            tad                                    8.O0      1.93     9.93
1966W1969            Pqwd e Galulaee  5ArL     , S. A.                              ip ad Paer                            3.78      5.12     949
1967/1972            Ultriunfi. S. A. - bdua  e Oa cdo de FaMisate                 LetiliUmrs                             8.22      3.03    12.25
1969                 Patroqiddc U1dmo  S. A.                                       Peradveicala                           5.50      2.81     8.3S
1970                 Pbilndine, S. A. tLria eGrdo                                   Pe le                                 5.50      2.8      8.38
1971                Gdrer, S. A. Inzutra e Gao retrodraiads                                                               .D60     1.44     6.04
1971                RNo Grade - tqwhla de Cahuha do ad                             tIp                                    4.9D       -       4.90
1972/19751911        Caqiad   de Clato Mdnmal de Minn Et                                                                169.14      6.70   175.84
197Y74177/81183/85   Csita S8dWugii de CaSio - a==L                               Steal                                  76.97     15.27    92.24
1973                 >oital Hlirt Owla1st Fuad - FISCl                                teal Maket leelapei                 5.00       -       5.00
197Y19781983        1quin  de Doh volviwnt  de bera  Einrada - 01. 5L A.   184.1 IftnL  md ReEi1ui                      85.00      0.74    93.74
1974                ab&Utri  VlLIl. S. A.                                          EIewatr  aid hdhmtrlal Eqtipn          6.00       -       6.00
1974                Fthrlc de TIrdo Taquwe. S. A.                                  battle                                31.W        -      31.00
1975/1979           Cawaa Criom lwA.trm Ltd.                                       Cwbn Black                             6.18i     1.19     7.37
1975                Odtso ldete, S. A.                                             PeIut  nlcals                         10.00       -       10.00
1976                 Satiat  hdhtrta - mcci di Macdeem, S A.                       Ttles                                  6.45      2.02     7.45
1976/198D     l l mr S. A. - Tasei Itaulas do Nlcdame                              Titus                                  MM         -       16.20
1977                 RIB S A. Pructas MAalurg                                      fron ard Alu_mm Ceciq                 2D.00       -      20.00
1977                Ila          Rio do tate S. A.                                 Hiulqx                               i15m         -       15.OD
2978                anIal Sd1_sgi S. A.                                            Iram ad tae                            L38       3.06    11.3
1979                 hlvo do Erdl  1ow  e Veilas. S. A.                           Mtor VAlcl                           LOA0       5.27    65.27
98                  Ha  ittb h tee S. A. - Hall                                   hleat de  Cart.s                       2L.o        -       2.CW
198i        u         adh do Pda S/A - 1eV     - Agrlmkw. lAtkiard
e Garde de Olaqisuama                                      bJ3OI                                  3.50      1.00     4.50
1983                VILInhseris de Sae S. A. - VJEA                   ln  ad Stae                                         5.C0       -       5.w0
2983                FM  - OWqfl Tdtra de blipipquila                               Cmicals ad Petro IJatc                L5.0       2.00    17.00
198D                DOmeildl  Carte S. A.                                          Ohalcala aid PetrochNical               -        O.5     0.25
1983                Sotoe AMeut  Qztp  e ItEra S/A                                 bi iizer                              35.00      6.00    4LOO
19BA                PoUMai Neupdials                                               Chicala ard Pet mdrachaeds            43.00      5.00    4a0
1983                Bmdlpr                                                         Ingy ad Cdtatl 1iks                    -         1.50     1.50
1981                  0.dth  Brtids de Jp'apnrla - MRMAP                           tbc ad Rxd f etw                       5.50      3.00     8.0
1981               fTrlafo                                                         Ohddals aid PtdmdLah                  46.W       4.00    50.00
19BZ                 awcDnt ciE azoamut                                                       ad Gtrutim Materili        40.        5.00    45.00
1982                A    61de    S. A.                                            ntq Cqtetal MNket                      3D.00      0.45    30.45
1983                Ca Rlgrdee de Pbxddpe              (at?)                       they  jttak Markt                      -          .01      .01
1983                AtS  Flpxduico                                                 tcd ad Fbad frocetsE                  1300       -       110D
19B3          uk da Dade do An" (MW                                                Pa1l 011                               6.10      -        6.10
1963                 PISr - Pqek de loqim  SJL                                     Palp 1 1Wer Prmuas                    60.        5.17    65.17
193                  Sixm/SA.                                                      tcd  d M(d  Ft'ndu                     3.0       2.50     5.50
19B3                 cum                                                           Gon   d  nstnxLon Ma-eril             35.00      -       35.0W
19PD                NLoclxor PeadutYo                            -Omls ad Pserodmeicas                                    3.00      5.00     8.00
19Bf                 (Smta Alcaxlqmda to lsa                                       Chmle ad Pantr sLc      l             2DJ0.      4.00    24.00
19                   0aa de Btda                                                   Cumimds ad Ptsradaemls                 3.2m      1.83     5.00
htal Cours C tueta                                                                        935.42    105.72 1.041.14
lt    Cuedmu.  1 _.lns. u,   y'0u  aid Sa                                                 679.95     3D.78   710.73
teKaldQe1   cr  Now Maid by TC                                                            255.47     74.94   33D.41
teak U3dithwa                                                                              6L4       14.82    79.26
4eC lb, VeF



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
ELETRIC POWER SECTOR LOAN
SUPPLEHENTAL DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the PSRP approximately: two years
(b) Time taken to prepare proposed operation: ten months
(c)  Project Prepared by:  ELETROBRAS with assistance from major power
utilities and Bank staff
Cd) Request to the Bank to assist in the preparation of PSRP: January
1984
Ce) Request to the Bank to assist in the financing of PSRP: August 1985
Cf) Appraisal: April 1986
(g) Completion of Negotiations: May 1986
(h) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditicns
During Loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached
with the Government of Brazil and ELETROBRAS:
(a) to carry out, by June 30, 1987, a study to review the
institutional structure of the sector and to implement the
recommendations of such study. Terms of reference will be
furnished to the Bank for its approval by August 31, 1986
(para. 40);
(b) to prepare and submit to the Bank, by November 30, 1986, a satis-
factory program of preventive and corrective measures to reduce
the risk of power shortages to acceptable levels (para. 65);



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(c) on the criteria for the preparation of the rehabilitation plans
of the beneficiaries (para. 74);
(d) to furnish the Bank by July 15, 1986 a satisfactory plan to
resettle the population to be affected by the construction of the
Itaparica Hydro-plant dam (para. 94);
(e) on a satisfactory contingency plan for the provision of the
required resources to the sector in 1986 if the planned cofinan-
cing operation with commercial banks does not materialize, or if
it generates less resources than what is envisaged in the PSRP.
(para. 73)
(f) that the loan be disbursed in two tranches of US$250.0 million
each. The conditions for the release of each tranche to be as
follows:
Ci)   the first tranche to be disbursed upon loan effectiveness
which would be subject to receipt of evidence satisfactory
to the Bank, on the following conditions: (1) that the
Government hap effectively allocated in its budget an
additional US$670 million of which the Government will con-
tribute to the sector in 1986 equity of US$500 million, and
also will reimburse to the sector US$170 million for
expenditures incurred by it, on behalf of the Government,
for the nuclear program; (2) that the amount of about US$3
billion of new borrowings included in the revised PSRP is
available to the sector in 1986; (3) that satisfactory
rehabilitation plans for the utilities selected to receive
equity contributions have been prepared and adopted; (4)
that the stockholders of ELETROBRAS have approved and
subscribed a capital increase equivalent to not less than
US$1.13 billion in terms satisfactory to the Bank; (5) that
the Government has paid-in equity contributions of US$300
million equivalent; and (6) that the stockholders of the
beneficiaries have approved capital contributions,
consistant with this rehabilitation plans of US$1.13 billion
in terms satisfactory to the Bank and ELETROBRAS has
subscribed the shares corresponding to such capital
increases (para. 84);
(ii)  the second tranche to be disbursed after the Bank:  (1) has
reviewed and is satisfied with the sectoral performance up
to then; (2) has received an acceptable 1986 to 1990
sectoral Plan; (3) is satisfied with progress in the
rehabilitation process of the selected utilities in
accordance with the rehabilitation programs agreed upon with



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
the Bank; and (4) has received a plan of actions acceptable
to the Bank for achieving the target rate of return
envisaged in the PSRP for 1987; (5) that the Government has
paid-in equity contributions equivalent to the US$1.130
billion capital increase to ELETROBRAS less the amount
equivalent of the second tranche of the loan. The resources
of the second tranche will be paid-in and capital for the
sector immediately after disbursement by the Bank; and (6)
that the Government has reimbursed the sector the US$170
million referred to in f(i) above (para. 84);
(g) that until 1990 or such other date on which the objectives of the
PSRP shall have been attained in terms satisfactory to the Bank,
the Government will furnish to the Bank a satisfactory Plan for
the rehabilitation of the power sector covering at least the
following four years. Such plan to include an investment program
for the electric power sector companies, and a detailed financial
plan including: (i) an increase of the rates of return of no less
than the rates of return included in the 1985 to 1989 PSRP; (ii)
a decrease in the percentages of borrowings as a source of
financing; and, (iii) for the immediately following calendar
year, specific amounts of equity contributions and dated tariff
increases or other measures, acceptable to the Bank, that will
allow the electric power sector, to achieve the agreed rates of
return and borrowing targets (para. 60);
(h) to furnish the Bank with an acceptable list of eligible general
country imports that have been procured on satisfactory interna-
tional commercial practices and from countries and territories
referred to in the Bank's procurement guidelines (para. 87); and
(i) to furnish the Bank by November 30, 1986 satisfactory terms of
reference for the Plano 2010 study, which should be carried out
not later than May 31, 1987 and promptly thereafter submitted to
the Bank (para. 61). ELETROBRAS and the Government agreed not to
enter any contractual arrangements related to the implementation
of electric power projects until the economic, technical and
financial feasibility of each such projects have been demon-
strated in terms satisfactory to the Bank, as a least cost
solution, consistent with the PSRP and the Plano 2010 (para. 61).



IBRD-15685 R
-  0Q\   NEZ  ELA                         ; t.ftu        1r )7SW
A ,      02   EoovlE7fJv'E7tsV-~~~~~~~:A-SUR-/NA             le
ri  "',,  .00t> <f/l  /)  { l  ~J  zM URWM GLI O(F 1r
-  BOL                                         lVlA 7 i), A vi r Gicm r                                 O,A .'
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~) DO NORTE0t-      >     ,
P~ A  C     U 0t\    ;0;            0crP'fi                       /      Cmp rne,                        eo 1iRr AT
r  ,  j  : . as; ......3          .                                        BrA.edi:xXvSiLc A rZAN  
S    ) I 0 A R G    E t    E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  N T            I A   PlrCnl [BAI
\4 CA 0 E  A- IV                ,;   .:'1-      C    rG     jPA:RAG5                                          rio9cpl
2 JAM ICt I |   rj: - s0 4|- ~ - i  PCI2O    ;    i   \, Ror eilf i@ 5E emRpiEo                    A
i_ w w XCH'LE                                                                                     Ri. ': k-io. 2cA   S



