Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Re"t No. 5340
PROJECT COH?LETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 1286-T-MAI)
November 28, 1984
Government of Malawi
Ministry of Agriculture
and
East Africa Projects Department
Regional Mission in East Africa
This document has a restricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
A.D.D.         =    Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC        =    Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation
CADO           =    Chief Agricultural Development Officer
CSC           =    Cold Storage Company
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
IDA                 International Development Association
KCRDP         =    Karonga-Chitipa Rural Development Project
MANR                Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources
NRDP                National Rural Development Programme
NRDP (PI)           National Rural Development Programme
Preliminary Investment
RDP           =    Rural Development Project
STA           =    Senior Technical Assistant
TO            =    Technical Officer



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
KARONGA-CRITIPA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
TABIE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Abbreviations
Table of Contents
Preface                                                           i
Basic Data Sheet                                                 ii
Footnotes                                                       iii
Highlights                                                       iv
Comments on and Summary of Government's PCR                      1
I  INTRODUCTION                                               I
1I  PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                         I
III  PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION                                    2
IV  PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                         2
V  AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORTED BY THE KARONGA-
CHITIPA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                         3
VI  NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PRE-INVESTMENT          7
VII  PROJECT COSTS                                              7
VIII  DISBURSEMENTS OF WINDOW TWO LOAN                           8
IX  PROJECT BENEFITS                                           9
X  GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE                                    13
XI  BANK PERFORMANCE                                          14
Government PCR                                                  16
Foreword                                                        17
MAIN TEXT PART A : KCRDP II                                     18
1.  Introduction and Summary                              18
2.  Background                                             19
3.  Formulation                                           21
4.  Implementation                                         24
5.  Imnact                                                 34
6.  Financial Performance                                  44
7.  Institutional Performance                              45
8.  Economic Rate of Return                                48
9.  Discussion and Conclusion                             49
PART B   NRDP PRE-INVESTMENT                                    50
1.  Background and Formulation                             50
2.  Implementation                                         53
3.  Financial Performance                                  56
4.  Overall Evaluation                                     58
5.  Conclusion                                             58
PART C   LAKE TRANSPORT                                         59
1.  Background                                            59
2.  Implementation                                         60
3.  Conclusion                                            62
KARONGA-CRITIPA RDP PHASE II - ANNEXES                          63
Table of Contents                                               64
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MALAWI
Karonga Rural Development Project, Phase II - Loan 1286-T-MAI
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a completion report of the Karonga Rural Development
Project, Phase II, for which a third window loan (Lu 1286-T-MAI) was
approved on June 2, 1976. The loan was fully disbursed and clo3ed in
December 1982.
This report consists of a project completion report (PCR)
prepared by the Planning Div'ision in the Ministry of Agriculture, dated
February 1983, a revised economic analysis completed in October 1983 and a
summary evaluation by the Resident Mission East Africa, completed in
November 1983.
The PCR was submitted to OED but the Project was not selected for
audit. The 1DCR and the overview was sent to the Government for comments on
August 31, 1984. i&1i.ng prepared the PCR, the Government did not send any
further comments.



ttt)
SECWD KAROXA RURAL  EVLOErT PROJECr - WAN 1286-T-nl
PRO.ECa CtGClON REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
KFY PROJECr DATA
Actual or Actual as percentage
Apprisml   Estimated       of Appraisal
Estimate      Actual         Estifmte
Project coat (USS dillion)         12.093       12.434            102.8
Loan Amout (USS million)            9.2          9.2              100
Date of Board Approval                         06/30/76
Date of Effectiveness                          09/24/76
Date Physical Components Completed  09/PD       03/82  Houses           10O:
Roads n3
loreholes         9o0
Markets           202
Health           1O01
Training Centers 1007
Closing Date             :          03/81       12/82
Econoidc Rate of Return: NRDP         14X         14t
- : l~~ake
Transoort  18X         LOz
Instittitonal Performance:                    Phor 1/
Agronontc Performance    :                    Variahle 21
Financial Performance    :                    Poor 31 -
Nober of Direct          :                    11.000 farmers 41
Beneficiaries
aMIATIVE DISBURSEMENTS:
FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY`82
Appraisal Estimate (USS nillon):   0.8    4.0    7.4    8.6   9.2      -
Actual (USS million)           :  0.5    3.5    6.9    8.0   8.9    9.2
Actual as 2 of Estimate        : 62.5  87.5   93.2  93.0  96.7  100
Dte of Final Disbursement      : February 1982
MIS5ION DATA:                                            Staffweeks                        Tpes  t/
Ifssion  No. of Specializations    In the   Performance5!       6/   of
Mission       Source    Date    Persons   Represented      Field       Rating    Trend   Problems
Preparation   RMEA    10(28/74     2
Preparation  IMEA   01/22/75       1
Appraisal     HQ      10/04/75     5   Econ.
Supervision   RMEA    01/30/77     3   Econ/Publ.Health       6          2          -        TO
Supervision   RMEA    01/10/77     1   Econ.                  2          2          2        10
Supervision   RIEA    09/03/78     2   Econ.fAgronomy         4          2          2        FM
Supervision   RMEA    09/20/7R     2   Engin/Econ.            6          2          2        TO
Supervision   RICA   D8/01/79      I   Agronomy               2          2          1        T
Supervision   RIfA    05/09/80     2   Agric. Econ./Agron.  2            2          2        FT
Supervision   RSEA    01/21/81     1   Agronu-y               1          2          2        FT
OIE PROJECT DATA:
Borrower                           : Govertnnt of Malawi (GCI)
Executitng Agency                  : Mtnistry of Agriculture. Halawi Railways
Fiscal Year of Borrower            : April I - March 31
Nne of Qarrency                    : Malawi Kwacha (MK)
Carrency Exehange Rate
Appraisal Year Average     (1975)      USS 1.00 - 0.90 MK
Intervening Year Average (1975-1981)   USS 1.00 - 0.84
Completion Year Average    (1981)      USS 1.00 - 0.90
FOLLOW-N PROJECr
:National RIral Development Progrsm (NRDP) Phase III
Credit iNumber                     :              183-MAI
Credit Amontt (USS million)        :               7.3
Date of Board Approval             :               10/31/1%i



- iii -
FOOTNOTES
1/   Poor management and budget control in early
Project years for Karonga Rural Development
Project.
2/   Variable due to variability of rainfall and of
crop prices. Farmer profits unsatisfactory for
cash crops, cotton and groundnuts. Farmers
reacted favorably to crop price Increase for
maize and rice in particular. Insufficient
development of extension messages.
3/   Excessive expenditures for operating costs in
the first Project years.
The Ministry of Finance appropriated M1K 1.5
million from the Credit Fund.
Budget allocations generally satisfactory.
4/    Some 11,000 farmers representing 28% of the
farming cormunity were participating in the
group credit schemes.
Others benefitted indirectly from roads, water
supply and education provided under project.
5/    Status 1: Problem-free or Ninor Problems; 2: Moderate Problems
3: Major Problems.
6/    Trend 1: Improving; 2: Stationery; 3: Deteriorating
7/   Types of Problems: F - Financial; T - Technical; P - Political;
O - Other



- iv -
MALAWI
Karonga Rural Development Project, Phase II, Loan 1268-T-MAI
PROJECT I'IOMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
(i)       The project, which was the seventh IDA/Bank supported rural
development project in Malawi, was the second phase of a rural development
program in Malawi's far north. The first-phase Project was implemented
from 1972 to 1976. It provided finance for rainfed and irrigated
agricultural development, health services and transportation in the Karonga
district only. The irrigation component under the first phase project was
not successful because of high costs overruns (unexpected requirement of
canal lining) and the resulting shortfall in its economic viability. In
addition berthing and handling facilities at the southern lake port of
Chipoka could not be comnpleted because of cost overruns in other parts of
the Lake Transport component and inability of Government to finance the
overrun. The second-phase project was extended in area coverage to include
the sparsely populated Chitipa district. The second phase project had
three distinct components including (a) agricultural and livestock services
and infrastructure in the Karonga and Chitipa districts, (b) a two-year
pre-investment phase to the National Rural Development program (NRDP), and
(c) the completion of the Lake Transport component started under the phase
I project.
(ii)      Project start-up was with funds from the first phase project.
Project funds were used for 5 1/4 years compared to the original life of
4 years. Disbursements for local operating and personnel costs for the
Karonga Chitipa Rural Development program were 80% above estimates. In
addition, an appreciation of the Mtalawi Kwacha relative to the dollar
during the project period reduced the Kwacha value of the Third Window
Loan. Government increased its Kwacha contribution to the project by .8
million Kwacha (US$.94 million equivalent) compared to the appraisal
estimate. Despite this, total costs denominated in Kwacha (10.5 million
Kwacha, or USS12.4 million equivalent) were about 4% lower than appraisal
estimates (10.9 million Kwacha). Annual work programs and budgets were
adjusted downwards to availabl-: finance, except for operating costs which
could not be contained. Phys.cal road construction for example amounted to
only 32% of the appraisal estimate.
(iii)     Only increased production from rainfed rice in Karonga, and maize
from Chitipa contributed to project benefits. Favorable farmer profits
obtainable for these crops (due to relatively high prices) induced farmers
to grow larger areas, and to devote more labor, management and inputs to
these crops. However, financial incentives were inadequate for obtaining
increased production of cotton, groundnuts and livestock.



- ' -
(iv)      Surveys indicated that there was virtually no uptake of the
technology advocated by extension agents during the project period.
Farmers who were able to introduce the simple technology advocated by
extension agents had already done so by the end of the first phase
project. Both the extension and the research service failed to generate
and communicate new technology of interest to the larger credit-worthy
farmers. Both services also failed to consider the strong risk aversion of
subsistence farmers when designing agricultural improvements. Subsistence
farmers were untouched by the extension service. In this regard, the NRDP
pre-investment component failed to strengthen agricultural research.
(v)       Benpfits from the livestock component were minimal because of a
lack of market in the remote project districts despite increasing numbers
of livestock. Indeed improved animal health facilities increased the
number of livestock, while offtake did not increase. This exacerbated
over-grazing.
(vi)      ADMARC had insufficient funds and incentives to construct the
markets/inputs stores foreseen at appraisal. Input supply services by this
parastatal were particularly poor. Marketing services were less bad,
ADMARC handling an increase in rice and maize throughout despite the lack
of construction of new facilities. However, the good performance was the
unassisted parallel market which was able to handle increased production
offered for sale.
(vii)     Management of the Karonga Rural Development Project Area was
mediocre, in particular during the first 18 months when poor budget control
resulted in excessive operating costs. Management of the Chitipa area was
good. In general however, Government procedures for creating positions and
filling posts with suitable qualified staff were lengthy and cumbersome.
(viii)    The NRDP pre-investment component achieved its "hardware" objec-
tives of providing the necessary infrastructure (houses, office facilities
and stores) equipment and staff in three futture NRDP development areas
(Mzimba, Thiwi Lifidzi and Kawinga). However, its "software" activities
were nct met. It failed to appoint staff to the agricultural research
component and agro-economic studies were not undertaken. Accounts and
audits were not received for this project component. The investtaeat costs
for the pre-investment component remained 12% below the appraisal estimate.
(ix)      Malawi Railways was the executor of Chipoka harbor improvements
under the Lake Transport component of the Project. Because of low
appraisal cost estimates, MK 310,000 of construction could not be included
in the tender. In addition, it was decided that barges undertake fuel
transport instead of the oil tanker which the original project was to be
rehabilitated. Despite these shortfalls, cargo tonnages handled grew to
approximately the level foreseen at appraisal. Between 1976 and 1979
(latest available data) the freight forwarded from Chilumba (in Karonga
district) increased by 67Z, in part indicating the increased production
available for sale from Karonga. A crude estimate of the economic rate of
return on the Lake Transport component is 10%.



- vi -
(x)       The project's economic rate of return (ERR) for the agricultural
components of the project is estimated in the Government PCR at 14%,
identical to that projected at appraisal. Higher rainfed rice and maize
production than originally envisaged offset the lack of project impact on
cotton, groundnuts and livestock. This success compares very favorably to
other Rural Development Projects in East Africa having similar design. The
critical factor was probably the relatively favorable agricultural policy
environment in Malawi, particularly price policy for rice and maize.
Nevertheless, unfavorable price policy for cotton, groundnuts and beef
curtailed possible production benefits from these crops. The parastatal
marketing and input supply agency ADMARC performed poorly. However, this
was largely mitigated by a flourishing parallel market which was not
molested by Government. Finally, there was some synergy effect in
expanding agricultural production resulting from high prices for rice and
maize, the flourishing parallel market, improved credit availability
(credit use expanded to one-third of the farm population), roads, water
supply, and education provided by the project.
(xi)      As can be judged from the above, the importance of the agri-
cultural policy environment was seriousLy under-estimated at appraisal.
This policy environment turned out to have as much of an impact on
production in the project area as did project services. In retrospect, it
is also unfortunate that the project attempted to assist the parastatal
ADMARC and not the private traders which constituted the parallel market.



MALAWI
Karonga Rural Development Project, Phase II - Loan 1286-T-MAI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comments on and Summary of Government's PCR
I. Introduction
1.        The Planning Division in Ministry of Agriculture, in conjunction
with Karonga ADD personnel prepared a PCR for the above project, a final
draft of which was received in RMEA on October 18, 1983. IDA staff have
reviewed this PCR, and comments are provided below. The Ministry of
Agriculture has been self-critical in preparing its PCR. Most comments
(though not all) made by IDA staff on earlier drafts have been incorpo-
rated. The preparation of a PCR was not a condition of the Credit Agree-
meent, and Government's efforts are therefore particularly commendable.
The following comments should be read in conjunction with, or as addiLions
to Government's PCR. They try to clarify a few inconsistencies in data and
express some views which differ from those expressed in the Government's
PCR.
II. Project Objectives
2.        This integrated rural development project followed a first phase
which was implemented in the Karonga District of northern Malawi, and was
comple:ed in 1976. This second phase expanded the project to another
district: Chitipa. Both projects were directed primarily to increasing
agricultural production, income and social services. The total area
covered in the second phase was 900 thousand hectares of which 7% was
cultivated and on which 38,000 farm families lived. The project contained
a project management unity, development of agricultural research and
extension, agricultural credit, livestock services, fisheries, soil
conservation services, marketing and input supply facilities, water supply,
health and education facilities, and roads. The project also was to
undertake preliminary investment in infrastructure and the development of
Central Ministry of Agriculture Services needed to accelerate the
implementation of a "National Rural Development Program" throughout
Malawi. Finally, the project included investment in transportation
services between Karonga and Chipoka harbors on Lake Malawi. Most cargo
between Karonga and southern Malawi is carried by ship on the ]ake (the
road link is poor). The component included harbor facilities, cargo
handling equipment, and rehabilitation of an oil tanker.



-2-
III. Physical Implementation
3.        The Third Window Loan for the project became effective in
Septcmber 1976, and the project was closed in March 1982, one year longer
than expected at appraisal.
4.        Karonga-Chitipa Rural Development Project.  Civil works
construction commenced promptly and targets for staff housing, offices,
health facilities (7 dispensaries and 5 maternity wards constructed), and
primary schools (36 schools) were reached early. Borehole drilling (water
supply) was about on target (83 boreholes drilled compared to 90 planned).
However, because of substantial overspending in operating costs during the
first 18 months, a rescheduling of funds was undertaken, along with
improved monitoring procedures and financial control. Operating cost
increases were contained. In addition, several construction programs were
reduced in scope due to insufficient funds to meet unexpectedly high
costs. The road construction program was cut back for this reason, and
achieved only 30% of its original target (30 miles of road were constructed
or rehabilitated). Livestock dipping tanks were not constructed because
costs exceeded appraisal estimates and Government could not provide the
additional funds necessary. ADMARC (marketing and input supply parastatal)
failed to construct markets and input stores because of its own financial
constraint. ADMARC constructed only five small marketing sheds.
5.        NRDP Pre-Investment.  Most of the staff houses and offices
foreseen at appraisal were constructed. These were located in districts in
which subsequent NRDP p-jects would be based (Thiwi-Lifidzi, Kawinga and
Mzimba districts). Road -uilding (largely in Thiwi-Lifidzi) was about 50%
of that foreseen. I'ehicle acquisition for NRDP staff was largely as
foreseen. The two ADMARC markets foreseen were not constructed.
6.        Lake Transport.  The oil tanker was never refitted.  Instead, a
barge was purchased to carry fuel. Cargo handling equipment was procured.
Civil works construction at Chipoka harbor was largely completed. Costs
were underestimated at appraisal, so some construction was dropped. In
addition, due to a cement shortage in Malawi, construction was late.
IV. Project Management
7.        Karonga Chitipa Rural Development Project.  (a) There were 3
Project Managers during the project's life in Karonga district. The first
Manager allowed excessive operating expenditures due to overstaffing, poor
control of vehicle running, etc. A total of MK 803,000 was spent on



-3-
operating costs above estimates in the first 18 months of the project.
Following a detailed review of financial management by Ministry of
Agriclture staff, reprogramming of project activities and financing was
agreed with the Bank. Under the following two project managers there was
improvement in program planning and budgeting, and execution of project
activities. (b) Staff vacancies for several key posts and some poor
quality support staff created management problems in both Karonga and
Chitipa districts. (C) A large number of surveys were carried out by the
Monitoring and Evaluation section. The data was not always adequately
analysed and evaluated and was of limited assistance to management in
decision making and forward planning. (d) ADMARC showed no interest in or
commitment to the project.
8.        NRDP Pre-Investment Phase.  This component was implemented by the
Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources, under the authority of the
NRDP coordinator. As indicated in para 5, management of physical
implementation was good. However, management of software" (agricultural
research, socio-economic studies, and the resources survey) was poor (see
also para 18).
9.        Lake Transport.  This component was adequately managed.  Freight
traffic through the two harbors increased substantially during the project
period.  This was handled despite deficient pvrt facilities.
V. Agricultural Services supported by the Karonga-Chitipa Rural
Development Program
10.       Agricultural Extension.  This component was expected to be most
important in generating agricultural benefits. A new extension methodology
was successfully introduced, referred to as the farmer group approach.
Extension agents contacted fixed groups of farmers on a systematic
scheduled basis. The approach had some of the elements of T & V (indeed in
subsequent years, it has evolved towaTd the T & V system). The group
approach enabled more farmers to be reached than under the phase I project,
and was relatively cheap since agents visited groups rather than
individuals. To assess the impact of extension it is informative to look
at the major extension messages, combined with survey results including the
degree or uptake of extension advice. There were five categories of
extension messages for maize, groundnuts, rice and cotton:



-4-
Message                    Percent of Farmers Following Message
1977/78       1979180
(a) Use Improved Seed
Maize                                     35              7
Rice                                      75             33
(b) Use Fertilizer, manure
Haize                                     31             12
Rice                                      48             49
(c) Plant Early
Maize (before December 30)                68             75
Cotton                                    60             91
(d) Optimum Plant Density
Maize                                     18             10
{e) Weed on Time-
Maize                                     98             80
Groundnuts                                96             93
Rice                                      93             81
Cotton                                    98            100
The percentage of farmers following extension adrice for the most part
declined during the project period.



11.    Despite the above results, the Government's PCR shows data (page 19)
indicating that farmers reached by extension got higher crop yields for
maize, pulses and groundnuts than did farmers not reached by extension.
However, from the information in para 10 above, it could be deduced that
those farmers following extension advice were already introduced to the
improved technology in the first phase project. This would explain the
higher yields of those farmers who followed the advice of extension agents
and suggest the second phase project failed to introduce new technology to
additional farmers. The use of fertilizer, improved seed, and early
planting may be difficult for subsistence farmers who have little cash to
purchase inputs, are not credit-worthy, and cannot hire labor (due to lack
of cash) at peak labor-demand times for early and rapid planting, weeding,
etc. Such farmers may plant at less than the "optimum" plant density in
order to give individual plants a greater chance of survival in :ase of
adverse weather conditions.  They may use less fertilizer than recommended
to reduce the possible adverse financial impact from using costly
fertilizer in years of rainfall. Alternatively, the result of inadelquate
and untimely supplies of inputs would produce a similar impact with a
limited number of farmers able to utilize new technology. Despite the
focus of extension messages, the balance of farmers would have to adapt
production systems that would function adequately without improved seeds
and fertilizer. There is evidence from a recently completed crop survey
(1979-83) 1/ to support this view point. Although maize plantings
increased dramatically over the project period and this was sustained in
the follow-up project 2/, the expansion was totally confined to local
maize and inrerplanted maize prodoction neither of uhich require
fertilizer. National supply of fertil5zer has now been addressed through a
Bank/IFAD Project 3/. Most small farmers :,tercrop, for which no
extension advice was available. This failure of extension was also the
failure of agricultural research which was inadequately executed under the
project. Indeed, the national agricultural research apparatus was
inadequate. This problem is only being addressed now.
12.    Rice yields in Karonga district and maize yields in Chitipa
increased marginally during the project period, but there was a significant
increase in the area of maize planted in both project districts. Expansion
in production of rice and maize accounts for the project's acceptable
economic rate of return. How is this explained given the failure of
extensior and research and input constraints? The most important
explanatory factor was the increase in the relative price of maize and rice
during the projer period. The resulting greater profitabilil-y of maize and
rice stimulated greater farmer attention and labor input in cultivation of
rice and maize, hence leading to increased plantings. There was also truth
to the concept of integrated rural development activities (water supply,
credit, road building and education especially) having an impact on
production. Better educated farmers with better educated children make
1/  Source: ADD Monitoring and Evaluation Unit 1984.
2/ NRDP III (Cr. 1183-MA).
3/ Smallholder fertilizer project (Cr. 1352-MAI)



- 6 -
13.       Seasonal credit was only provided through credit groups. The
introduction of group credit helped double the number of credit farmers to
about 10,600. Thue 30% of farmers received credit. Late availability of
inputs tended to inhibit an even greater demand for credit. In addition,
many farmers were either not convinced that the profitability of some crops
increased when using expensive fertilizers, or were unprepared to take the
risk of purchasing fertilizer on credit. Failure of sub optimal levels of
fertilizer to increase yields and income would have left these farmers in a
perilous situation having a debt to repay and no additional income to repay
it with. This rational risk aversion inhibited uptake of new technology
requiring a cash outlay or credit. Less than expected demand for credit
was the result. The average loan per farmer was MK 25 per season. Credit
repayments were excellent at 98%, mainly because defaulting groups became
ineligible for new credit.  This component -as in general successful,
although it did not reach as many farmers as targetted.
14.       Livestock extension services concentrated on improving animal
health (cattle dipping, castration) and on livestock management (culling,
marketing of unproductive animals) after several development components
were cut following Government's review of project activities in 1978.
Results were not good in an economic sense. The marketing of livestock did
not increase (at least partly due to the inadequate official price
offered), while cattle numbers did increase. Overgrazing is worse as a
result.
15.       The Land Husbandry Component demarcated 7% more land into water
control areas in Karonga district than foreseen at appraisal. Water
controi measures, however, were not successfully carried out, largely
because of lack of funds for construction. Flooding is therefore still a
problem in Karonga. The Land Husbandry staff provided assistance with
feeder road layout and design. Feeder roads were then constructed on a
self-help basis.
16.       Marketing and Input Supply.  ADMARC not only failed to construct
most of the facilities foreseen under the project, but also generally
distributed inputs late or not at all, and was somewhat inefficient in its
marketing activity. Government ignored a flourishing parallel market which
was able to absorb additional rice and maize production. In retrospect, it
was unfortunate that the efficiency and resourcefulness of this parallel
market was not recognized and assistance provided through the project to
its development. This could have had a much larger impact than did the
attempt to assist ADMARC.



- 7 -
VI. National Rural Development Program Pre-Investment
17.       The objective of this component was to create the necessary
infrastructure, central services and staff necessary to launch the national
rural development program which was to eventually (in about 20 years) cover
the entire country. The concept was to prepare for the introduction of low
cost, replicable investments in marketing, extension, input/credit
organization, roads, and water supply. The pre-investment phase financed
under the Karonga/Chitipa Rural Development project succeeded in meeting
most of its infrastructure and equipment targets. However, the Central
Ministry of Agriculture Services which were to be developed to serve the
entire NRDP Program were not strengthened as foreseen except in its
accounting department. This hurt the start-up of adaptive agricultural
research in particular, in turn retarding the process of developing valid
extension messages. Other central services such as agro-economic surveys
and land resource analysis were not undertaken. In conclusion, the
'hardware element of this component was successfully implemented, but the
"software- element was not.
VII Project Costs
18.       The various tables in Government's PCR show coflicting total cost
data. The data in Annex IV is correct. Total cost was MK 10.537 million.
The Bank provided US$9.2 million (MX 7.8 million equivalent) or 74%. Total
cost at appraisal was estimated at MK 10.9 million of which 75% was to be
financed by IDA.  In local currency there was a 3% cost underrun.5!  This
was due to an appreciation of the Malawi Kwacha which caused the Kwacha
equivalent of the Third Window Loan to decline, combined with ADMARC'S
inability to finance its share of the input supply and marketing facilities
(which were not constructed).
Financial Source          Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Amount        %            Amount      X
(MK mil)                   (MK nil)
IDA                     8.3           75            7.8       74
Government              1.9           18            2.7       26
ADMARC                  0.7            7              0        0
Total               10.9          100           10.5      100
Government's contribution increased considerably to finance overruns of
local (largely operating) costs.                                 1
5/ In the Basic Data Sheet, total project costs are shown in US$
equivalent. Because of the appreciation of the Kwacha, actual total
cost denomination in dollar equivalent was 2.8% higher than expected
at appraisal.



-8-
Recurrent Costs
19.       The PCX shows high operating and personnel costs during project
execution (about US$1.1 million p.a. equivalent in current prices). This
level of operating costs is excessively bigh. An attempt should have been
made during project execution to reduce operating costs and increase cost
recovery in order to impose less of a burden on the Government budget. The
general issue of high operating costs of agricultural projects in Malawi is
being addressed in the SAL. In addition, under the third phase of this
Project (NRDP III, Credit 1183-HAI) high recurrent costs for staff
salaries, vehicle operations and building maintenance are being funded by
IDA on a declining basis over the Project period. This procedure which
passes an increasing share of the financial burden of operating costs onto
Government during project execution, is intended to provide an additional
incentive to Government to reduce and/or to recover costs. Unfortunately,
the overruns of operating cost during the second phase project, largely
financed by Government, did not induce Government to reduce such costs or
recover more cost. Greater attention must be given in project design to
this issue.
VIII. Disbursements of the Window Two Loan
20.       The following table compares Loan allocation with actual
disbursements.
Allocation     Actual        Z
Category                     at Appraisal
_ _ _- IJS$ -
IA  Karonga RDP   - vehicles, machinery,       600,000       393,085      65.5
equipment
B                 - civil works             1,000,000    1,277,909    127.8
C                 - personnel               1,000,000    1,447,751    144.8
D                 - operating costs         1,000,000    2,151,415    215.1
2A  NRDP pre-inv. - vehicles, machinery,       400,000       370,710      94.3
equipment
B                 - civil works               900,000    1,028,126    114.2
C                 - personnel                 400,000       198,367      49.4
D                 - - operating costs         300,000       401,309    133.7
E      '          - consultants               130,000        87,292      67.2
3A Lake Transport - civil works              1,500,000    1,652,073    110.1
B                 - cargo handling eguip.    150,000        191,963    128.0
C                 - Mpasa refitting            20,000          -
Unallocated                                  1,800,000
TOTAL         9,200,000    9,200,000



- 9 -
21.       Disbursements for local personnel and operating costs exceeded
disbursement estimates at appraisal by 80%. Physical completion of civil
works was somewhat less than expected at appraisal. Cost was 20% higher
than the appraisal basic (before contingency) estimate, reflecting the
expected rate of price inflation. Expenditures for foreign personnel and
consultants were lower than expected because not all staff anticipated at
appraisal were appointed. Equipment purchases were lower than anticipated
at appraisal to keep costs down. In effect there was a substitution of
operating and personnel costs for equipment and for foreign personnel.
This was undesirable. Greater efforts should have been directed to
limiting persor:el and operating costs.
IX. Project Benefits
Crop Production
22.       Most project benefits were expected from increased production of
maize, rice, cotton and coffee, with smaller production increases of
groundnuts, beans and beef. The concept was that the development of
agricultural services, infrastructure, and people (health and education)
would combine to have an impact on production. It was recognized that the
individual impact of each component would be difficult to identify.
Unfortunately, the PCR presents conflicting data on the evolution of
cropped areas, crop yields and production. This reflects the inadequacy of
the monitoring and evaluation system. In addition, different sources
provide different data. Inconsistencies of data in an early draft of the
PCR were reported to Government. Government in response provided a
corrected Annex X entitled "Economic Analaysis'. The data in this annex
are the best available.
Crop Production in Karonga District
23.       Crop Area. 6/ Appraisal estimates were for 1,420 ha each of the
improved crops maize, groundnuts, cotton and unimproved cassava or maize.
The PCR indicates that the maize area exceeded this target significantly
(4,500 to 5,200 ha in the last 4 years) but cotton and groundnut areas
declined to less than 150 ha in 1980/81. Rainfed rice was expected to
increase to 4,490 ha. This area was slightly exceeded in 1978/79 and in
1979/80 but almost doubled to 8,800 ha in 1980/81, no doubt due to
favorable producer prices and good rains.
6/ Data on cropped area reported in the Government's PCR may not be
accurate.



- 10 -
24.       Crop Yields were expected at appraisal to increase to
approximately 2,000 kg/ha foDr maize, 720 kg/ha for cotton, 410 kg/ha for
groundnuts and 2,200 kg/ha for rainfed rice. Yields varied considerably
from season to season mainly reflecting rainfall and price as discussed in
Dara 10 above. Maize yields averaged about 1,150 kg/ha or slightly better
than half the target yield. Average cotton yields appear to have slightly
exceeded the target, and average groundnut yields were below that antici-
pated. Rainfed rice yields ranged from an unusually high 3,000 kg/ha in
1980/81 to 1,037 kg/ha in 1977/78.
25.       Crop Production.  Project crop production varied considerably
from year to year, mostly depending on seasonal conditions (rainfall) and
producer prices. Maize and groundnut production in Karonga was less than
projected without the project. This occurred as rice production was
substituted for maize and groundnuts due to increased paddy prices. Cotton
production increased only marginally compared to the without project
projections.
26.       Official Crop Purchases.  ADMARC data on crop purchases for
Karonga do not indicate substantial increases during project imnplemen-
tation. Rice purchases in Karonga were highest in 1977/78 with 10,850
tonnes and then declined to about 7,500 tonnes per annum. Cotton purchases
stabilized at about 380 tonnes, while maize and groundnut purchases were
negligible. This means that much of the incremental production was
marketed through unofficial channels, possibly the result of insufficient
ADMARC prodived marketing facilities and, no doubt, also due to higher
unofficial produce prices.
Crop Production in Chitipa District
27.       Crop Area.  The SAR indicates that the pre-project maize area of
2,732 ha (mostly intercropped with beans and grounduuts) would be replaced
in 1980/81 by 1,093 ha each of composite and improved local maize and 547
ha each of improved beans and groundnuts. During project implementation
the maize area stabilized at about 10,500 ha, or at 4-5 times the appraisal
estimate, mainly due to attractive prices on informal markets. The ground-
nut area was close to estimates but more than doubled in 1979 to 1,300 ha.
Bean areas exceeded the appraisal target and stabilized at about 1,900 ha
in 1979/80.
28.       Crop Yields.  Maize and groundnut yields were expected to be
about 2,370 and 525 kg/ha respectively. Only in 1977/78 was the appraisal
estimate for maize yield reached; in the following years it ranged from
1,734 to 1,937 kg/ha. Groundnut yields varied between 280 and 645 kg/ha.
29.       Crop Production.  Incremental maize production exceeded appraisal
targets while groundnut production did not.



- 11 -
30.       Official Crop Purchases.  Since 1976/77 maize purchases by ADMARC
more than tripled the average of the previous five years. Furthermore, it
has been alleged that some over-the-border trading has occurred. Sales of
groundnuts and pulses were highest in 1979/80 with only some 30-40 tonnes
respectively.
31        Causes for Production Changes. It is clear from the data that
producer price and rainfall were critical factors in determining
production. Because of inadequate producer prices cotton and groundnut
production was not stimulated as expected.  Rice production in Karonga was
stimulated as was maize in Chitipa. Extension messages appear to have had
little impact during the project period as indicated in para 10. Little
benefit accrued from the livestock component, although the cattle
population increased qt a more rapid rate because of increased dipping and
improved veterinary services. The essential constraint to achieving the
objectives of the livestock component was Karonga-Chitipa's isolation which
prevented the Cold Storage Company from purchasing all offered stock
(because the company had a limited imprest account reducing its ability to
purchase from areas which have high transport costs).
32.       The "synergy" effect on agricultural production expected from a
simultaneous, integrated development of agricultural services, infra-
structure and social services was important, with however some unforeseen
causes. Expanded agricultural credit services, roads, water supply and
education contributed directly or indirectly to increasing agricultural
production. However, the predominant unforeseen factors were the high rice
and maize prices making these two crops profitable, and a dynamic parallel
market. Rainfall was also of great importance.
33.       Annex 10 of the Government's PCR provides an economic rate of
return calculation. It includes incremental crop production benefits, and
those project costs related to production. 7/ It excludes Lake Transport
services, health, hydrology studies, monitoring and evaluation and
livestock (for which benefit data are not available). The result is an ERR
of 14%. The ERR for the livestock component (not computed in the
Government's PCR) is likely to be about 0%. The total cost of the
livestock component was MK 147 thousand, or 2% of costs. Assuming a 0%
rate of return to livestock if this component is included, the FRR falls
7/ The economic rate of return analysis contained in the Government's main
report (page 48) was not correctly prepared, and was sent back to
Government with a request for changes. These changes were made in a
new Annex 10, which is to be taken as the correct calculation.



- 12 -
insignificantly. It would still be rounded off to 14%. The ERR projected
at appraisal, which was estimated on the same basis, was also 14%.8/
34.       Ex-post economic rate of return analysis does not distinguish
between agricultural benefits generated in a project area by project
services, and those generated by other factors. Agricultural projects
situated in countries having appropriate agricultural development policies
tend to succeed, while those projects situated in countries having
inappropriate policy tend to fail (see the World Bank's Eight Annual Review
of Project Performacne Audit Reports for this conclusion). In Malawi,
agricultural policies were relatively good. The economic rate of return of
14% reflects this fact as much as it does the impact of project services.
Only recently has the Bank realized the overwhelming importance of the
policy environment. Presently, considerable assista:ice is being provided
to improve agricultural policies in Malawi through SALs, technical
assistance, and Bank agricultural sector work.
35.       The impact of the project on the Government's budget has been
negative. The budget has benefitted little from increased taxes and
duties, and was negatively affected by the high operating costs of the
project. ADMARC, the main purchaser of surplus produce, de..lved little or
no benfits from the project because of its high costs of handling the
mostly Chitipa maize and because of financial losses incurred in marketing
Karonga rainfed rice.
36.       Social benefits are significant and observers have repeatedly
remarked on the improved education facilities for the population. The
number of pupils attending primary school in Karonga rose from 20,000 in
1974 to 23,600 in 1981. In Chitipa, attendance rose from 13,600 to 21,000
in the same period. The boreholes have improved water quality, reduced the
drudgery of obtaining water, and liberated labor or farming. Only health
care has not improved significantly because of understaffing in the health
centres created. In addition, these facilities and services require
considerable recurrent expenditures. For the time being the latter are
funded from the third phase project (NRDP III ) and SALs. It would be
useful to introduce cost recovery mechanisms which would contribute to the
operation of health facilities and help finance better health services.
8/ If all project costs are included, the rate of return would fall
to 7%. This estimate is not particularly useful since it included the
costs of social and extra-project services which were intended to (and
did) have social benefits and economic benefits outside the project
area. These components were not intended to directly stimulate
agricultural production.



- 13 -
37.       As stated above the NRDP Pre-investment phase succeeded in
creating certain basic infrastructure useful in accelerating start-up of
subsequent NRDP projects. However, this component did not undertake the
adaptive agricultural reserach foreseen, which was intended to generate
more appropriate extension messages. Nor did it undertake the
agro-economic analysis foreseen.
38.       Lake Transport.  The appraisal report calculated benefits of the
Lake Transport component on the basis of increased cargo which would be
carried to and from Karonga permitted by project harbor improvement and
rehabilitation of the oil tanker. The increased cargo was expected to come
from additional agricultural production in Karonga. Freight traffic
handled through the two ports which were partly rehabilitated by the
project did increase rapidly during the project period (by 39% in terms of
weight handled from 1974 to 1979). No economic rate of return was
calculated in the PCR. However, project costs were approximately equal to
the appraisal estimate of Kwacha 2 million. Freight traffic grew at a rate
nearly identical to that projected at appraisal. Given this situation, the
actual ERR was probably close to the 18% estimated at appraisal, and
certainly above 10% (10% has been placed in the basic data sheet).
X. Government Performance
39.       Government commitment to the project was satisfactory as is
typified by its willingness to finance cost overruns from its budget.
Project management initially was weak, particularly in workplan and budget
preparation and in containing operating costs.  Throughout the Project very
close Ministry of Agriculture assistance and supervision was required (from
the Chief Agriculture Development Officer). Staff appointments were
delayed because of cumbersome and time-consuming procedures, and there were
3 Project managers in Karonga district in 4 years, all factors which
affected Project management adversely. The only major curtailment in
planned Project activities occurred in road construction (only some 32% of
the target) and in ADMARC's inability to construct markets and input
stores. The Government provided insufficient crop price incentives for
cotton and groundnuts to allow appraisal targets to be reached. The
Ministry of Finance also withdrew MK 1.5 million from the revolving
agricultural Credit Account. It has been agreed, however, that this amount
will be refunded to the Karonga ADD Credit Fund or to a Central Credit Fund
if and when this latter is established.
40.       The major Project weakncss was the inadequacy of on-farm
research, in particular that focussing on the needs of subsistence
farmers. As a result there was no strengthening of extension messages
during the project period. Although the extension sevices adopted a farmer
group approach, its focus remained mostly on creditworthy farmers who had
land in excess of subsistence requirements.



- 14 -
41.       The withdrawal of the post of NRDP Coordinator contributed to
poor coordination of NRDP pre-investment activities. Accounts and audits
were never received for this component, nor were they received for the last
few years of the Karonga-Chitipa Rural Development Project. Other
covenants were complied with in a timely manner.
XI. Bank Performance
42.       The appraisal team suitably reduced the scope and cost of the
Karonga-Chitipa component (deleting coffee development proposals and
scaling down credit and ADMARC components). This contributed positively to
the Project design. The change in approach of the agricultural research
component from the originally proposed large number of replicated trials to
that of on-farm trials was sound, but trial implementation was less than
satisfactory because the required staff were not appointed. The inadequacy
of the national agricultural research system was overlooked. The impact of
existing extension messages was over-estimated. The extension service had
much less to offer in terms of improved technology than was anticipated.
Input usage (except improved rice seed in Karonga) was overestimated, but
the appraisal team could not foresee the external logistical problems of
getting farm inputs into Malawi, nor were the unfavorable crop prices for
cotton and groundnuts predictable. Nevertheless, as with other agricul-
tural project appraisals in East Africa, the importance and impact of the
policy enrivonment was grossly under-estimated.
43.       There was too much faith in the possibility of assisting an
inefficient marketing, and input supply parastatal (ADMARC). It is
unfortunate that no thought was given to assisting energetic traders on the
parallel market.
44.       NRDP pre-investment proposals by the Government were suitably
reduced by the appraisal team to allow more time to establish the necessary
institutional framework and to collect and analyze essential data on which
specified NRDP development proposals were to be based. In the event, this
proved to be an excellent decision since the administration of this
component was relatively poor.
45.       Although the appraisal team altered project design in order to
minimize investments and recurrent costs, there was not enough attention
given to ways in which to wean the project from dependency on high
Government expenditures for operating costs. The project is too costly to
operate, and offers little in temrs of cost recovery.



- 15 -
46.       The Bank's Resident Mission in East Africa srnt 7 supervision
missions to Karonga-Chitipa, which provided considerable technical
assistance, particularly on extension organization and project
management. The project was probably somewhat better managed as a result.
Supervision missions for example asissted in resolving staffing and
financial problems. Excessive operating expenditures were detected early
which resulted in a rescheduling of project activities and expenditures.
Nevertheless, recurrent costs were excessive and no system was recommended
for reducing recurrent costs or increasing cost recovery. Although
supervision missions pointed out the negative impact on cotton and
groundnut production of price policy, they were unable to influence a
change in such policy. Errors made at the design stage marked the project
for its life.
47.       In summary, the Bank appraisal mission did marginally improve
project design, and Bank supervision did improve management. However, Bank
staff did not fundamentally alter or improve design nor were they
influential in changing Government price policy or project design during
implementation.



- 16 -
MALAWI
SECOND KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
oIZan 1286-T-MAI)
PROJECT COMPILETION REPORT
Government of Malawi
Ministry of Agriculture



- 17 -
FOREWORD
This project completion report for Karonga-Chitipa Project Phase
II has been prepared by the Central Evaluation Unit of the Planning
Division in the Ministry of Agriculture. It is the second completion
report, after that of Lilongwe Land Development Programme Phase III, to be
prepared by a local team.   Therefore local experience is being developed
in the preparation of project completion reports.
While the Preparation of the report started in good time to allow
for the presentation of the report about six months after the completion
of the project to the World Bank, a number of problems emerged. Firstly,
the then Senior Economist (Evaluation) who initiated the work left the
country at the end of his contract with Malawi Government in April, 1982.
At the same time, he took away with him all the information that had been
gathered with the promise that he would work on the report while outside
the country. This did not materialze even after numerous correspondences.
The data was returned in September 1982. Therefore, the work had to be
started again. Secondly some key data could not easily be traced and
retrieved for instance, the performance of the pre-investment phase and the
Lake Transport Component.
The draft report was prepared in October 1982 and valuable
comments on its content were received from various government officers as
well as World Bank staff from the Regional Office in Nairobi. These
comments have, either whole or in part, been incorporated in this final
report.
As -will De gathered from the report, the project had been
successful in incressing crop production during the phase and a network of
social infrastructure was provided in order to improve the living standard
of the people.
This report is a result of joint effort by staff of the Planning
Division and Karonga Agricultural Development Division (KADD).  The write-
up of the report was done by Messrs. D.M. Chembezi and F.R. Mwambaghi, all
Evaluation Economists in the Planning Division's Central Evaluation Unit.
The Senior Economist (Planning) assisted the team in finalizing the report,
especially in producing the chapter on Economic Analysis. The Chief
Projects Ofticer provided valuable guidance in the preparation of the Final
Report.
G.B. Chirwa
CHIEF PROJECTS OFFICER



- 18 -
1. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1.0       This is the second Project Completion Report to be prepared and
presented to the Bank by Malawi Government, thie first one being that of the
Lilongwe Land Development Programme Phase III prepared in 1979. Phase I
Completion Report for Karonga Rural Development Project was prepared by the
Bank itself. Although some mention has been made of how much investment
went into Phase I, this report has laid emphasis on the activities and
implementation of Phase II which included Chitipa District originally
omitted _n the first phase.
1.1       Basically the presentation of material in this report fo]lows
guidelines detailed in the Bank's Operational Manual Statement (IBRD,
February 1979). This manual clearly presents and indicates what aspects
ought to be included under each section. An attempt has been made to
include as much information in the text as possible, however, follow-up
details have been presented in the form of Annexes and referenced within
the text.
1.2       This report finds that physical implementation of the project was
generally good although markets and roads fell short of the appraisal
target. The project was however implemented with weak management and
financial control. Autonomy, within the frame of decentralization, appears
to have been granted to the project far too early and because of this
coupled with lack of proper financial control, cost over-runs were
experienced during the first two years of the project life.
1.2.i     The Project has had considerable impact and success on crop
production. Incremental crop production for rice, maize and somehow cotton
been increasing annually, and higher yields except for groundnuts have been
maintained. Reduced land under cultivation and change from Malimba to
Manipintar groundnut appears possible cause for the poor production
performance of cotton and groundnuts respectively. The estimated economic
rate of return is 33% over a period of 25 years. This excludes costs of
components left out in the analysis at appraisal. If all component costs
are included, the rate of return falls to 18%. Because of lack of phase I
cost streams, no attempt has been made to calculate a combined rate for
phases I and II.
1.2.2     Research has not focussed their attention on local needs and liuk
with the extension service has been weak. Credit use has expanded and
recovery rate has also improved considerably.  Seasonal inputs on credit
have however fallen short of the appraisal targets probably because of the
introduction of credit groups and the policy which restricted loans to
groups.
1.2.3     Little attention has been paid to land use planning and data for
the monitoring of envircnmerntal effects are hardly available. On
livestock development, little emphasis was laid on inproved livestock
development programmes instead general livestock extension was undertaken.
1.3.0     Regarding the preliminary Investment Phase of the National Rural
Development Programme, considerable infrastructural development has been
ac ieved. Work which was suppose to be done by Land Resources and
Agricultural Research in proposed NRDP project areas never took shape



- 19 -
because of the problems of filling the posts agreed at appraisal. On this
basis therefore, the Pre-Investment Phase has been a failure.
1.4.0     A considerable part of the work proposed at appraisal under the
general objective of Lake transport improvement has been done. Both
Chipoka and Chilumba harbours are being used and the amount of cargo
handled is increasing with time.
1.5.0     In conclusion, the project (KCRDP II) has demonstrated
considerable success in as far as crop production is concerned thereby
ccntributing to the improved socio-economic life of the target population
and the nation as a whole.  Mention also needs to be made of the valuable
lessons learnt from the planning and implementation of KCRDP II. This has
helped to improve the planning and implementation of the project's third
phase and also other Rural Development Projects (RDPs) within the National
Rural Development Programme (NRDP).
2. BACYrROUND
2.1       Following the implementation of regional intergrated development
projects in the Central and Southern Regions of Malawi in 1968, the
National Development Council, early in 1969, directed that an economically
viable integrated development project be mounted ir the Northern Region.
The Northn Region was regarded as disadvantaged by being at the extreme end
of a long line of communication with a severe lack of feeder roads. Karonga
Lakeshore produced practically all the saleable surplus of the Region and
was viewed as the area with the greatest immediate potential in terms of
irrigation, and human and cattle populations. A Phase I for Karonga Rural
Development Project was subsequently appraised in 1971 and commenced with
finanzial assistance from in 1972 VCredit Agreement 282-MAI).
2.2       The first Phase was originally expected to run for five years (to
1977) however, due to initial difficulties in staff recruitment and
delays in housing construction, progress in the first year was slower than
expected. Revisions were made and the Phase was shortened to four years.
Proposals were then prepared by Malawi Government for a Second phase and
this was subsequently appraised by the World Bank in 1976. Phase II
commenced with financial assistance from IBRD (Third Window) in the same
year (Credit Agreement 1286-MAI). This Phase was designed to last for four
years (to early 1981), was however subsequently extended by one year to
close on 31st March, 1982.
2.3    These two phases of the project received finance from IDA/IBRD
Credits Malawi as follows:-
Phase Appraisal
Report    Credit        Amount            Period
I     PA  106a    282-MAI    US$6.6 Million   1972-1978
II    1084-MAI   1286-MAI    USS9.2 Million   1976-1981
There has been an cverlap between phases I and II in finances: residual
funds from Phase I have been used in Phase II.
Included was funding towards improved Lake Transportation Services and a
Pre-Investment for the National Rural Development Programme. These
together made up some (46) per cent of the total.



- 20 -
2.3.1     The total cost of the two phases (including contributions from
Malawi Government) amounted to an estimated MKI5.85 million. This was
allocated as follows:
Phase I  Phase II   Total
(MK "Million)
Karonga and Chitipa
Project: Development
Account           6.61     5.14       11.75
Karonga and Chitipa
Project: Revenue
Account           0.10     1.58        1.68
NRDP Pre-Investment         -        2.42       2.42
Total                   6.71    9.14        15.85
2.4       The Completion Report for Phase I concluded that the Project had
provided a stimulus to the development of Karonga; not only through the
provision of inputs and extension services but also from the improved
physical infrastructure which had been achieved. The purpose of Phase II
was to continue this support for the development of agricultural production
in Karonga and spread this development to Chitipa District. In addition
the second Phase included a component to support the preparation of the
National Rural Development programme through a strengthening of the
planning capacity withiMANR and through preliminary investment in three
selected 3-eas of Malawi. A component for the further improvement of Lake
transpoication services was alincluded.
2.5       The total area of the Karonga and Chitipa Districts is 0.89
million hectares of which 7% were estimated to be under cultivation at the
commencement of Phase II. The project area is bounded by Zambia to the
West, Tanzania to the North and Lake Malawi to the East. A large mDuntain
range to the South confined road accsss between the project and the rest of
Malawi to a single unreliable lakeshore route. The two districts could be
divided into five main natural areas, namely: the steep-sided
coffee-growing Misuku hills, the scarcely populated undulating Chitipa
plain, the agriculturally unproductive and unpopulated Karonga scarp zone,
the fertile North Karonga Lakeshore plain. Annual average rainfall ranges
between 750 to 1500 millimetres, most of it falling between November and
May. An estimated 38,000 farm families lived ithe two districts at the
commencement of Phase II.
2.6       To some extent the design of the second phase represented an
adjustment in policy from an intensive Scheme approach towards a more
general approach covering all farmers and all crops-. This was in line
with the present National extension policy which aims at covering all
Smallholder farmers.
2.7       By the commencement of Phase II, a considerable facility of
infrastructure and staffing was already available in both Karonga and
Chitipa Districts. A summary of these facilities is provided at Annex I.
2.8       The principal sources of information which have been used for
compiling this project completion Report were the reports and records of
the project Evaluation Unit, the Financial Division (cost accounts and



- 21 -
Credit Fund Control), Programme Management and component heads and the
files and records stored at Ministry of Agriculture Headquarters. Numerous
other specific sources are quoted in the text and a list of the main
reference at Annex II.
3. FORMULATION
3.1       Initial discussion and Project Identification outline for a
second phase of Karonga Project took place at a meeting with leaders and
politicians of Karonga and Chitipa districts at Karonga in October, 1971.
Provisional proposals for this second phase were then prepared by a joint
team from Planning Division (Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources)
and Karonga project management. These proposals were prepared in full
consultation with senior staff working on the project and with all
Ministries and departments concerned;particularly the Agricultural
Development and Marketing Corporation, Cold Storage Company, Ministry of
Health, Ministry of Works, and other Departments within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources. Following this integrated planning
procedure, the Project Proposal Document was submitted to a World Bank
(IBRD) Appraisal team in October 1975.
3.2       The concept of a National Rural Development Programme was being
actively discussed within Government at that time. The extension of the
project phase II to Chitipa District was originally envisaged as a first
pilot for the concepts of NRDP.
3.3       The Malawi Government Proposals for Phase II over a four year
periodcommencing 1st April, 1976 amounted to a base cost of K6.603
million. Physical and price contingencies were calculated at K2.892
million giving a total o K9.50 million. Detailed cost breakdown by
component were presented and an internal rate of return of 13.3 per cent
was estimated over a 25 year period.   This economic analysis omitted the
components of research, hydrology, fisheriesevaluation, health and
livestock. The primary benefits of the project were expected to be
increased production of maize, rice, cotton and coffee, with smaller
production increases of groundnuts, beans and beef.
3.4       An IBRD Appraisal Mission of five team members visited Malawi in
October/November 1975. An additional team of two visited in February, 1976
concerning the lake transport proposals.
3.5       There were some considerable differences between the final
appraisal document and the original Malawi proposals. The main points of
difference we as follows:
(i) The Appraisal document required an additional
Malawi Government provision of over K1.5 million
according to an enlarged project design and a
change of contributory financing proportion.



- 22 -
Text Table 1: Financing Arrangements compared (MK'OOC
Project Proposal Appraisal Prov.
Source                  by Malawi Govt.    (1084-HMAI)
World Bank Loan          8,071 (85%)        8,300 (75%)
Malawi Government          338 ( 4%)        1,900 (18%)
ADMARC                   1,066 (11%)          700 ( 7Z)
TOTAL                    9,495 100%        10,900 100%
(ii)  Components for Fisheries and coffee development
were dropped by the Appraisal document;
(iii)  Two large new components, which involved pre-
investment for the National Rural Development
Programme and the development of lake transport-
ation facilities, were introduced at appraisal.
These components alone made up some 46 per cent
base cost provision in the new project design.
(iv)  The proposals for staff housing were amended at
appraisal with provision for less junior (P-type)
housing and more senior (C and D type). At the
same time the cost provision for the construction
unit and civil works was out at appraisal by almost
fifty per cent to cover what was virtually an
equivalent programme.
(v) For extension the farmer to technical assistant
(extension worker) ratio was reduced by about
twenty per ceiLt (to 1:600). Although a group
extension approach was emphasised by the proposals
with concentration on defined areas (schemes),
these aspects were not specifically mentioned by
the appraisal document.
(vi)  Allocation of new funds, the farmers revolving
credit fund were reduced at appraisal. This was
based on a revised estimate of loan requirements
during the phase representing only one-third
that anticipated by the project proposal. The
appraisal document revised downwards the project-
ions of package-adopting maize and cotton farmers
(by 50 per cent) and of medium term credit inputs
(by 80 per cent). The projection of groundnut
adopters' (Karonga) was however increased by 30
per cent. Credit for coffee production was
dropped. A schedule for phasing farmers off credit
towards cash purchases of inputs was adopted by
the appraisal document with a more rapid move to
cash (advanced by two years).
(vii)  The Appraisal document considered that the Land
Husbandry work programme should give increased
emphasis to encouragement in adoption of good land



- 23 -
use practices. To this end it was recommended
that this component be absorbed into the extension
services during the last two years of Phase II.
This was not the object of the original project
proposal which had emphasised concentration on
rainfed rice schemes (as in Phase I) and the
survey of alignments for farms and roads.
(viii) Proposals for the development of a holding ground
in the south of Karonga District (at ChLilumba)
for marketed Livestock together with an investiga-
tion of the possibility of their movement by lake
barge to Central Region markets were not adopted
at appraisal. Further appraisal omissions were for
a temporary cattle market and three pilot grazing
schemes in Chitipa District.
(ix) For the Research component, the appraisal document
placed emphasis on a programme of project specific
research. This was to be based on an extension system
of farm scale tests to be initiated with the help of
extension staff. The project proposal had based its
research component on large numbers of replicated
trials to fit within the national framework of research
department headquarters.
(x) The programme for development of ADMARC facilities
was reduced at appraisal from an original proposal
of twelve input stores and thirteen market complexes
to eight input stores and nine market complexes.
Summarised comparison of component costs are as follows:



- 24 -
Text Table 2: Component costs compared (K14'0O)(a)
Project Proposal   Appraisal
by Malawi Govt.    Document
1084-M&I
Component                    (4 years)       (4 years)
Karonga Project Area:
Management Unit               398               255
Financial Control             254               625
Mechanical Maintenance        158               169
Construction                1,540               836
Extension                     952               719
Credit Operations             450               (b)
Land Husbandry                161               143
Livestock                     306               262
Research                      251               208
Hydrology                     131               136
Evaluation                    149               181
Health                        351               399
Fisheries                      58                 0
Component Costs sub-total  5,159              3,833
Credit Fund Injection         763               173
ADMARC Construction           681               466
Total Base Costs (KCRDP)   6,603(100Z)        4,472(54Z)
NRDP Pre-Investment:            0             2,276
Lake Transport:                 0             1,536
Total All Base Costs        6,603             8,284
Contingencies: Physical       584(9X)           540(7%)
Price       2,308(35%)        2,059(25%)
Total Project Cost          9,495            10,883
Note:  (a) These are costs on Development Account only.
3.7       Description of the Project
A formal description of the Phase II project, as given by the
Development Credit Agreement (1286-T-MAI) Schedule 2, is reproduced at
Annex III.
4. IMPLEMENTATION
4.1       Effectiveness and Start-up
4.1.1     The funding for Phase II (Credit 1286 MAI) was officially agreed
on June 24, 1976 and became effective on September 24, 1976. After an
extension in the life of this phase, to allow for the completion of
outstanding infrastructure and the financial arrangements for a third



- 25 -
phase, the available funds were finally used ui on 31st March 1982 giving a
total implementation of 34 years.
4.1.2     With a considerable (HK440,000) carry-over of funds from Fgase I
(282-MAI) and the basic managemeat and staffing already available, the
Phase II project was able to start-up on schedule without any delays on
October lst, 1976.  Funds were actually warrainted by Treasury on October
13th.
4.2       Revisions:  Although there were no major revisions during
implementation to the basic design of the p7oject for its principal
objectives, some changes were found to be necessary both in the life of the
project (as mentioned above) and financial aLlocations between loan
categories. These changes were introduced to meet both the growing
difficulty of Malawi Government funding of local contributions and 8a a
result of a particularly excessive over-expenditure in operating costs
during the first eighteen months of project life.
4.2.1     Ailnual. Treasury allocations to development account for this
project Phase, compared to those anticipated at appraisal, were as follows:
Fundiag (MKt000)
(1)                   (2)
Financ'al Period    AppraieaJ Plan    Treasury Allocation
1976-77               3,435                   800
1977-78               5,010                 1,535
1978-79               1.527                 1,504
1979-80                 911                   882
1980-81                   0                   400
1981-82                   0                     0
(1) From 1084-MAI Annex 8 Table 1.
(2) From Development Estimates. Malawi Government.
Excluding Lake Transportations and NRDP Pre-investment
components.
4.2.2     Following a monitoring and supervision visit to the project by a
team from the Central Evaluation Unit (MANR) in 1978, weaknesses in
financial management were uncovered and an excessive over-expenditure in
operating costs was highlighted. The Report on the findings resulted in
the development of improved monitoring procedures and tighter financial
control. A request for the re-programming of funds for the Karonga-Chitipa
Project component was then prepared; this is reproduced in details at Annex
IV, and includes adjustments to allow for a correction to the original
project financial design (re-ADMARC Contribution), fluctuations in the
value of US$ and an increased provision to operating cost categories.
4.2.3     Plans for the construction of livestock dipping tanks were
dropped because funds allocated for these became inadequate as a result of
raising the standards for construction of dipping tanks. The funds were
then reallocated to the construction of other civil works.



- 26 -
4.3       Infrastructure Development:  A sumanary of infrastructure
achievement compared to target for Phase II is given at Annex l(b).
Achievements of appraisal targets have been varied as is indicated in the
following paragraphs.
4.3.1     The construction programme was largely satisfactorily
implemented. Housing, training centres, borehole, health facilities,
offices, workshops and stores were all completed to the required standard
in good time as shown in Annex V.
4.3.2     Of the 96 miles of roads planned, 30.4 miles were constructed,
incorporating 6 bridges, 17 culverts and one drift. The coatings used at
appraisal were found to be considerable underestimates; funding was
insufficient for the full construction programme.
4.3.3     Responsibility for construction of marketing facilities (credit
input stores and ADMARC sheds) was handed over to ADMARC. Owing to
financial problems within ADMARC, no facilities were constructed under
Phase II, although five ADMARC sheds were constructed in Chitipa district
using ADMARC maintenance funds late in the Phase.
4.3.4     Out of 92 boreholes planned, 83 were drilled representing 90%
achtievement of target. This is an impressive achievement when compared
with that of road construction programme.
4.4       Crop Development:  During Phase II, general approach to crop
development was adopted for both rice and dryland crops. To achieve this
end, group approach in extension activities was the principal method of
reaching farmers. The general approach and the group approach to extension
are in line with NRDP policy.
4.4.1     The advantages of the group approach are that the staff farmers
ratio can be reduced considerably without adversely affecting extension
contact, and that farmers easily learn from each other. The groups may
also be used for other project activities such as credit disbursement. The
group approach and the general approach to crop development in Karonga
Phase II has been an improvement over the scheme approach which was
followed in Phase I.
4.4.2     Rice:  Phase II concentrated largely on rainfed rice which is
predominant as opposed to irrigated rice; as Table 3 shows the increased
production was to be achieved by increases in area cultivated and yield.
Yield was to increase as a result of improved cultural practices, use of
improved varieties and fertilizers and also the ability of Faya rice to
yield well even without inorganic fertilizers.
4.4.3     The appraisal yield target of 2400 Kg/ha was achieved by 1978/79
season and by the end of the second phase rice yields in Karonga were 27%
higher than the appraisal target. Exact reasons for this impressive
achievement of yield targets are not known, however, favourable rainfall
could be one of the reasons. Appraisal hectarage targets were also
achieved during the phase, emphasising the importance of rice as source of
family revenue.



- 27 -
4.4.4      Dryland Crops:  Planning of Phase II envisaged that development
of dryland crops would be achieved by yield and area increases. Tables 4
and 5 show planned cropped area and actual in Chitipa and Karonga
districts. In none of the years, are the appraisal targets achieved. The
deviation from appraisal estimates was most pronounced for cotton and
groundnuts, and this is due to the low returns per hectare relative to the
othe crops (see Text Table 3).
TEXT TABLE 3 : GROSS MARGINS (M I(ACHA/HECTARE)
II    S E A S 0 N                I
C R O P
ICRIP 1980/81                                   1981/82
Rice (Faya)              220.00               220.00
I      .i                                                 I
Maize (MH12)             118.17               269.29
I                        I                                i
Groundnuts (Malimba)    80.00                  80.00
I Cotton                   160.29               195.29
Source: KCRDP Evaluation Unit.
TEKX TAKE 4                         CROP EEIELDR1JT (HA)
KAOW
IDescip.      1976/77         1977/78          1978/79           1979/80         1980/81    1
Year     P=ied Achiev.   lamed Ahiev-.  Planed Achieve.  Eanne_ ATieve BI.  T1.aIj   Achie'v.
lR1oe       2,040  4,050    2,653   4,250    3,265   5,000    4,490   5,200    4,490  8,808 1
ICOtte      1,517    sXo    1,705    870    1,898    856    2,126    770    2,309       125
IMaize      7,494  3,450    7,568   4,250    7,680   5,000    8,080   5,235    8,469   4,526
fGroLm&nts  2,371    500    2,542    509    2,724     300     2,977    360    3,189      140
TDTAL      13,422  8,900   14,468   9,879   15,567  11,156    17,673  11,565   18,457  13,600
Source: World BaRk appraisal (Revised) and Evaluation Farm Su-rvys.



- 28 -
TEXT TABLE 5:                          CROP DEVELOPKENT (HA)
CHITIPA
I            .                                            $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1976/77         1977/78          1978/79          1979/80
CROP      Planned Actual  Planned Actual  Planned Actual  Planned Actual
Maize      13,325  10,500   13,650  10,600   14.025  10,275   15,075  10,400 
Groundnuts  4,850    400    5,000    550    5,175    450    5,400  1,300 I
Pulses      8,225  3,000    8,225  2,100    8,250  1,950    8,250  1,900
Millet      2,650  1,050    2,700    750    2,800    600    2,875    800
Cassava     5,175    600    5,225   450       5,275    800    5,325    650
Source: World Bank Appraisal Report and Evaluation Farm Surveys.
4.5       Management and Organization:  The Programme Management Structure
is summarised in the organization chart at Annex VI. No major change
occurred during the phase. The overall implementation of the project is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Programme Manager
who looks after the day-to-day implementation of the activities is directly
responsible to the Chief Agricultural Development Officer (CADO). In line
with the NRDP set-up and also following the appraisal document, the post of
Project Manager (F7) upgraded to Programme Manager (P6).
4.5.1     Mention needs to be made of the fact that the Programme Manager
experienced some form of autonomy within the frame of decentralisation.
This is right and good if decisions are to be made and corrective actions
taken where deviations are imminent without having to wait from the
Ministry headquartersfor action. Supporting the question of autonomy is
the fact, for example, that some procurements in Phase II had to be made by
the Project directly through the Blantyre Office. The idea of having a
certain degree of autonomy has so farbeen advocated and appears now to
exist in all the eight Development Divisions.
4.5.2     Staffin*:  The senior staff chart at Annex VI shows the situation
senior staff level.  The posts of Programme Manager, Assistant Programme
Manager, Financial Controller, Senior Extension Officer and Evaluation
Officer were generally always filled during the phase. However, change of
management was prevalent, and this may have had some adverse effects on the
overall implementation of the project (lack of continuity). At both senior
and lower levels, most sections suffered from staffing problems. For
example, the Project was without Senior Administrative Officer and Engineer
for the whole phase. Financial control had to rely on untrained staff and
Credit Section iad to run without the Credit Accountant.
4.6       Extension and Training Component:  The following table summarises
ratio of field assistants (TA) to farmers and the staffing situation (TAs
and DAs) as at the end of Phase II, Development Assistants reduced to two
(2). This was expected as the aim was to increase staff of TA grade.



- 31 -
to be carried out, for -sample, flood control in rice fields which is still
a problem. The other problem was that of transport forcing the sectio. to
fail to achieve some of its objectives.
4.9       Livestock Section:  The Livestock Section placed emphasis on
conventional livestock extension methods, i.e. cattle dipping, castrations,
culling and emphasis on marketing unproductive animals. The envisaged
development programmes of Weane:/Yearling, grazing schemes, demonstrations
(Lu_lta) etc. were not achieved. Lack of adequate funds and shortage of
staff contributed to failure to implement the programmes successfully. The
prices the weaners did not provide enough incentive and as a result,
farmers found more profitable to sell animals amongst chemselves or
slaughter them at locamarkets.
4.10      Research Section:  Like the Construction Unit, this section also
suffered understaffing at senior level. The project was without Senior
Agricultural Research Officer for most of Phase II. Although a post was
available at Karonga for Senior Agricultural Research Officer, policy
with'i Research Department demanded that the post be filled by a
Professional Officer and so the Senior Agricultural Research Officer was
posited out of Karonga. It should be noted that Research programmes were
almost entirely designed to fit the National trials programmes. There
wasn't sufficient emphasis on project specific trials and results
interpretation for localised packages. The achievemants of the section,
however, included accompli-ment of selection and multiplication of improved
faya seed; establishment of natural grass/legume sward in Chitipa;
introduction of UCA and CCA maize varieties in both Chitipa and Karonga
districts, and also some recommenda-tions on groundnuts fungicide (Sulphur
and Daconil).
4.11      Financial Control:  No accounting machine was used during the
phase. All financial control work was done manually. There was problem of
insufficiently trained staff and untrained industrial grade staff had to be
used. Initial problem in lateness of financial records production caused
problems in monitoring of costs and expenditures. These were largely
overcome towards the end of the phase. Accounts and statements of
expenditures were however audited every year.
4.11.1    A Senior Credit Accountant to control credit finance was not in
post for most of the phase (see Annex VI). This placed extra burden on the
Financial Controller.
4.12      Health Section:  The major problem in this section was the lack
of staff to man the health facilities which were constructed. The section
however, implemented some bilharzia programmes searching for existence of
snails and prevention of bilharzia in the rice schemes and in some villages
outside these schemes. Annex VII(L) under "Social Impact" indicates the
activities of thesection in great more detail.
4.13      Evaluation Section:  There was satisfactory success in the
implementation of the section's programmes during phase II. Several survey
were conducted and coverage was quite good, ensuring more representative
data base. Resident enumerators were used in the enumeration areas. The
section experienced some staffing problems (enumerators). There was high
turnover of enumerators during the phase due to non-established posts.



- 32 -
4.13.1    Data handling and processing improved considerably by the use
of the Central computer in Blantyre. These improvements have ensured
adequate analysis and more timely reporting. Clear and simplified
reporting system and interpretation of data were used for rapid reference
and effective use of the survey findings.
4.13.2    The Evaluation section conducted several farm surveys during the
phase. Garden, household composition and yield surveys were/are run every
year to monitor and measure progress on crop mixtures, crop husbandry
practices, input/output relationship etc. Other surveys were conducted as
and when required at the request of the Programme Management. Analyses
were done and working papers written up as follows:-
Survey Title
Crop Disposal (1975/76)
Yield Study   (1975/76)
Yield Study   (1976/77)
Household Composition (1976/77)
Garden Survey (1976/77)
Yield Study (1977/78)
Household Composition (1977/78)
Garden Survey (1977/78)
Survey Title (Cont'd.)
Local Market Survey (1977/78)
Irrigated lice Survey (1977/78)
Resource Survey (1977/78)
Garden Survey (1978/79)
Pilot Livestock Survey (1978/79)
Local Market Survey (1978/79)
Yield Study (1978/79)
Household Composition (1978/79)
Household Composition (1979/80)
Garden Survey (1979/80)
Yield Study (1979/80)
Local Market Prices Survey (1979/80)
Garden Survey (1980/81)
Yield Study (1980/81)
Household Composition (1980/81)
Resource Survey (1980/81)
Extension Survey (1980/81)
Energy Survey (1980/81)
Livestock Survey (1980/81)
NatioTal Survey (1980/81)
Local Market Prices Survey (1930/81)
Income and Expenditure (1980/81)
Crop Storage Survey (1980/81)
Note: 1980/81 information has been processed
jointly by the Project and National
Statistical Office. Working papers to
be prepared.



- 33 -
4.13.3    A number of working papers have been useful in exercises carried
out by Management such as:- Crop Estimates, Gross Margin calculations and
Annual Work Plans. Information from Evaluation has also been useful in the
preparation and production of this completion report.
4.14      Hydrology Section:  With the beginning of the Karonga Chitipa
Project, it was found necessary to expand the collection of data on
rainfall, stream flow, evaporation and other relevant data useful in
designing hydraulic structures like dams and determining sowing dates for
crops and climatic suitability of an area for new crops. Such surveys
weve/are also important for the better understanding of the irrigation
potential of the Karonga Lakeshore Plain.
4.14.1    During phase I the Hydrological and Meteorological network within
the project was expanded and improved and a paper on the Hydrology of the
Songwe River catchment was prepared. In Phase II these hydrometeorological
activities continued; data processing and analysis was completed and
papers on the hydrology of the Wovwe and North Rukuru rivers catchment
characteristics were produced. Further expansion work to stations was done
and new gauging stations were established. The hydrological and
meteorological network was as follows at the end of Phase II:
Karonga     Chitipa
Hydrological Station                    15           12
Evaporation Fan Stations                 4            5
Rainfall Stations                       29           39
Weather Stations                         4            4
4.15      ADMARC:  Existing markets and input storut; were maintained
and staffed by ADMARC.  The planned construction of new markets and input
stores was not achieved, horever, because of ADMARC's financial problems.
Late distribution and availability of inputs by ADMARC was greatly
experienced in Phase II, but this improved during the last two years of
the phase.  Lack of storage space in ADMARC Depots  aused a slow down in
marketing activities.
4.16      Credit and Marketing Component:  In Phase II of the Project,
credit policy changed to provide seasonal credit zo credit groups only (see
Annex IX(a) Table 1). In the first season of Phase II (1976/77) the first
credit groups were organised (70 in Chitipa and 30 in Karonga), while at
the same time some individual farmers still continued to receive credit.
In the following years, however seasonal credit was disbursed to group
farmers only.
4.16.1    Disbursement of medium-term credits were slow during the phase
because in most years items were not available and there was a shortage of
spare parts. In addition, rising prices of implements reduced effective
demand for ox-drawn implements. Credit recovery was low because priority
was on recovering seasonal credit during marketing.
4.16.2    As already pointed out in 4.11.1, the credit section was without
a Senior Credit Accountant for most of the phase. There was also lack of
adequate and more perrmanent staff in the section and, consequently, lack of
proper basic data in credit offices of the project was experienced.



- 34 -
4.16.3    Other problems faced in Phase II included difficulty in operation
of markets due to poor roads and lack of adequate ADMARC transport at peak
marketing periods. It should also be mentioned that in Karonga concen-
tration of credit issues was only on Scheme farmers due to lack of
caretaker committees. More problems regarding credit issues ar:d adminis-
tration are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 5.
4.16.4     Text Table 6 presents disbursement of seasonal credit inputs by
year compared against targets and shows that targets were generally not
achieved. More details on constraints are presented in paragraph 5.5.5.
MT TABLE 6: TAR(EI  AGANSr ACHanYJf?S ON SEASOAL CRDILT DIN5
(MEMC  EON-S)
1975/76       1976/77         1977/78         1978/79        1979/80        1980/811
=Target Achiev. Target AchIev. Target Addev. Target Adiev. Target Adciev. Target Aduiev.
'Am=da (S/A)  594   251       804   324    1029   514    1271   536    1486   645   1585   767
:                                                                                                   I
120:2D:0       104    52      165   109     239   246      331   152      436   144    535   194
IRice Seed     105   254     126   356      154   367      182   139      198   300    138   461
jMaize Seed     11     4       17     9       23    29      31    13       40    21      48    19l
IG/nuts Seed    35    -        52    -       72    40       95      9     120    13    147    14 l
t                                                                                                   I
CaDtton'i
lInsecticides
lper acre 
package /    1125    47    1625   567    2125  1139    2625  1096    3125   480    3500   436  I
1/ Cottor. insecticide pacage is based cn ecomendatioor  of 50 sachets sevin, 24 sachets MDT
75% and 7 sachets Dimethoate. Ihe package hanged to 50 sachets sevin, 30 DET and 10
Dimethoate in 1979/80. It is apparent that some insecticides were obtained outside the
package.
crce: KRDP, Credit and Marketing Section.
5. lMPACT
5.1        Introduction
Project impact is mainly achieved by increased agricultural
production as a result of project activities. Karonga Phase II aimed at
increasing the production of both livestock and crops. Rice, cotton,
maize, groundnuts and pulses were given priority.
5.1.1      Methodological issues do not allow attributing increase of yield,
hectarage and production directly to project impact because even without
the project, crop development would still take place probably at a reduced
rate. Methodological issues also do not allow us to assess project impact



- 35 -
by comparing achievement in Karonga project with that of other projects
because of climatical weather and soil differences. Because of these
reasons impact assessment is based exclusively on the extent the appraisal
targets have been achieved.
5.2.0     Crop Yields
Yield estimates for Phase II are shown in Text Table 7 for both
Chitipa and Karonga Districts. Appraisal targets are also presented for
comparison with the actual yields. In general, rice (which is predomi-
nantly Faya type) and cotton yields were achieved and did not deviate much
from the expected. This is a result of improved cultural practices
followed and the ability of these crops to yield well without fertilizer.
Yields of other crops deviated considerably from appraisal estimates. By
1980/81 season, groundnut yields were 69 and 80 per cent of appraisal
targets in Karonga and Chitipa respectively.
IEI TABLE 7: YIAD LEVELS BY CROP AND BY YWR (OG/HA)
rescri n       Araisal I                   ACaL                         198/81 as %I
Description    j Targets 11976/77 1977/78 1978/79(2) 1979/80(2) 1980/81(2)1 of Targets I
iChitipa - Xaize     2,400   1,265   2,398   1,734     1,836     1,937   1    80
I  -               I5  251    526(1)  530      465       -346        69
|  -Puflses   1   400  338    462    645         540       277   I    69
Karcga -      R     ice  2,400  i1,774   1.037   2,669  2,266   3,037        127
- Cotton   |   800  IN/A    1,188    713         839      N/A    I   N/A
-Maize    i  2,400  | 1,131   1,947   1,153   1,158      1,105        46
Erun&wts;   450        395    360    346         365      .12          a     p
Notes: (1) Pure stand average for different varieties.
(2) Evaluation Sunry tabblatiors 1078/79, 1979/80 and 1980/81.
Source: IWbrkig peprs, Evaluation Section, Karonga.
5.3       Total and Incremental Production:  Incremental production is
shown in Text Table 8.  By the end of Phase II, 1980/81 estimated
incremental production of maize and rice in both Karonga and Chitipa
districts had already exceeded appraisal estimates, while that of
groundnuts and cotton was below targets. The incremental production of
maize and rice is primarily a result of increased hectarage (see Text
Tables 4 and 5). As noted earlier, yields of cotton were satisfactory
while groundnut yields in Karonga were 60 per cent of appraisal target.
These yield levels combined with areas under these crops indicate that the
poor production performance of cotton is a result of reduced area and that
of groundnuts is due to yield and area reduction.



- 36 -
5.3.1     Cropping Pattern:  According to the 1980/81 NSSA preliminary
report, mean cultivated area in the project area is 0.97 Ha per household
giving 0.88 and 1.07 hectares per household for Karonga and Chitipa
respectively. In 1980/81, the cropping pattern was as follows:-
Average Cropping Pattern KXRDP
Crop               Chitipa          Karonga
Maize(l)             51.2             27.9
Groundnuts(l)         0.9              2.0
Cotton(l)              -               1.1
Rice                                  43.4
Cassava(l)            N/A             15.0
Other                47.9(2)          10.6(3)
Note:  (1)  Pure stand only.
(2)  Composed of maize/pulses mixtures, maize/
groundnuts mixtures, sweet potatoes and
millet.
(3)  Composed of maize/cassava mixtures, fruit
and maize/groundauts mixtures.
Source:  1980/81 NSSA preliminary Report, N.S.O., 1982.



- 37 -
TEXT TABLE 8  :  INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
(Metric tonnes)
Karonga
Description                     1976177  1977/78  1978179  1979/80  1980/81
Rice
Hectarage                         4,050    4,250    5,000    5,200    8,808
With Project Production           7,290    9,350   13,500   11,960   26,424
Without Project Prod.l/           6,480    6,800    8,000    8,320   14,092
Incremental Production              810    2,550    5,500    3,640   12,332
- (Appraisal)         -         600    1,200    1,800    2,400
Cotton
Hectarage                           900      870       856      770       126
With Project Production             540    1,044       599      616    N/A
Without Project Prod.l/             270      261       257      231        38
Incremental Production              270      785       342      385       385
(Appraisal)         -         185       370      555       755
Maize
Hectarage                         3,450    4,250    5,000    5,235    4,526
With Project Producticn           3,795    8,075    6,000    6,282    4,979
Without Project Prod.1/           2,760    3,400    4,000    4,188    3,621
Incremental Production            1,035    4,675    2,000    2,094    1,358
(Appraisal)     -          70       140      210       160
Groundnuts
Hectarage                           500      509       300      360       140
Project Production                  200      183       120      144        56
Without Production Prod.1/          150      153        90       108       42
Incremental Production               50       30        30       36        14
"(Appraisal)          -      165       247      360       445
Ghitipa - Maize
Hectarage                        7,300    8,150    8,025    7,400    6,557
With Project Production           9,234   19,544   13,915   13,586   12,701
Without Project Prod.             6,300    6,360    6,165    6,240    5,788
Incremental Production           2,934   13,184    7,750    7,346    6,913
-(Appraisal)        405      945    1,620    2,430    3,240
Groundauts
Hectarage                           150      250       200      300       104
With Project Production              38       84       129      162        29
Without Project Prod.                80      110        90      260       134
Incremental Production              (42)     (26)       39      (98)    (105)
(Appraisal)       9         9        27       46        59
1/  Appraisal yield estimates are used.
5.4.0     Livestock Development:  Cattle population in Karonga Rural
Development Project area is now estimated at 84,000 and is increasing
annually at an estimated average rate of about 3.6%. There has been some
increase in the annual growth rate and this is attributable to improvement
in disease control and general extension advice on animal husbandry.
5.4.1     Livestock productivity as measured by growth rate and off-take,
has shown some steady increase. There are however some differences in
productivity between Karonga and Chitipa, the latter showing higher annual



- 38 -
growth rates and off-take values. The construction of more dipping tanks
in Chitipa means wider dipping coverage resulting into higher dipping
percentage. It is interesting to note that in 1972, an estimated 75Z of
the total herd in Karonga were within 8 kilometre radius of a dip tank and
in 1980/81 over 90% (Table 2 Annex VIII).
5.4.2     From the available statistics, only cattle records in Karonga
have been clearly broken into three distinct registers. Chitipa cattle
records leave much to be desired, consequently, it is not easy to detail
the impact of project activities on cattle herd. However, because of the
size of the district and unaccessible terrain, Chltipa has more dip tanks
than Karonga has (23 Chitipa and 21 Karonga) although cattle population is
lower in Chitipa than in Karonga.
5.4.3     Cattle market sales and slaughter (Annex VIII(a)) reveal a higher
commercial off-take in Chitipa than in Karonga. Possible reasons include
the fact that cattle owners in Karonga attach great value of wealth to
their herds. Secondly, prices offered by commercial buyers have been much
lower than those of local markets. The animals have therefore been
withdrawn by owners. Cattle owners would like to sell their animals to
local butchers or slaughter them themselves for sale at rural slaughter
slabs rather than dispose them at minimum floor prices (Annex VIII(d)).
The other reason relates to the inability on the part of the Cold Storage
Company, sole authorized residual buyer,  to buy all the animals unsold due
to its limited cattle purchase imprest of K1O,000.
5.4.4     Cold Storage is also faced with the problem of moving cattle from
Karonga to the slaughter houses in Lilongwe and Blantyre. Transport costs
are high and in addition cattle lose weight on transportation which is a
cost to the Cold Storage Company.   Some consideration towards construction
of a chilling plant in the Northern Region should be able to alleviate this
problem. Slaughter statistics for the small livestock classes, namely,
goats, sheep and pigs have also gone-up (see Annex VIII (f)).
It should however be noted that although this is so, negligible
numbers of sheep, goats and pigs are maintained in the two districts.
5.4.5     Cattle castrations have gone up in the project and this reflects
the effect of increased Veterinary Services in the project and also
increased awnreness by livestock owners to castrate their animals with a
view to using them for draught power (Annex VIII(e)).
5.5       The Credit Facility:  In phase I the seasonal credit was extended
to individual farmers only. The use and recovery of credit were lower than
envisaged but began to improve after the end of Phase I. The figures shown
in Annex IX(a) give the accummulated recovery rates.
5.5.1     In Phase II of the project, credit policy changed to provide
seasonal credit only to groups. In the first season of the phase (1976/77)
the first credit groups (70 in chitipa and 30 in Karonga) were organized
while at the same time a portion of individual farmers still continued to
receive credit. Recovery rates of above 90% have been maintained since
1976 (Annex IX(a)).



- 39 -
5.5.2     Availability of credit facilities in the project area has
benefited a substantial number of farmers.  This is evidenced and
demonstrated by the increase in the total annual issues and total number of
farmers and groups receiving credit each year (Annex IX(a)). The number of
farmers receiving credit in the season 1980/81 was about 11,000
representing about 28% of the total number of farmers living in the Project
area. Until 1980/81. the number of groups increased to 631 with an average
of about 25 members. The average credit amount per group borrower was
higher than the amount of credit taken by individual borrowers in former
years.
5.5.3    Credit targets in phase II, both seasonal and medium term targets,
were generally not achieved. There were a number of problems and obstacles
that resulted in targets not being achieved. Some of which are:
(a) Defaulting individuals in credit groups have increased
considerably thereby causing some groups to drop out
from the list of groups eligible for further credit.
The number of defaulters has increased since 1976. In
addition, the fact that so.aiebody drops out from the
borrowers list even if his group has few defaulting
farmers has had some adverse effect on the number of
credit farmers.
(b) In Karonga area, input issues were only made to scheme
farmers. Farmers outside scheme areas were not considered
for credit because there were no caretaker committees.
(c) Late distribution and insufficient inputs in ADMARC
selling points contributed to low uptake of seed and
fertilizer. Input distributions were limited because
of poor road conditions, the late opening of ADMARC
markets and shortage of input packages.
(d) Rising prices of farm implements offered had some adverse
effects on medium term loan.
te)  Some farmers are still not convinced of the benefits of
fertilizer application at recommended application rates.
The difference between fertilized and non-fertilized
maize and rice in some parts of Karonga is not substantial.
This has therefore meant a decrease in quantity of
fertilizer issued.
(f) Over optimistic targets. It would appear credit
input issues targets were overestimated.
5.6.0     Extension and Training:  The extension component has provided
farmers with a considerable exposure to advice on improved farm practices
such as time of planting, fertilizer application, improved seed, planting
density etc. (see Text Table 9). It is apparent that emphasis was mainly
on crop production.



- 40 -
5.6.1     The extension component still has a task to accomplish In KRDP.
Although fertilizer application has been emphasised (para. 5.6.0), uptake
has been slow for reasons given in para. 5.5.3(e) especially among farmers
in some Karonga Dryland Schemes, like Lupembo, Lupaso and Mlare. This has
resulted in few farmers taking fertilizer packages. Research in Karonga
should therefore have emphasized on adaptive trials to produce specific
recommendations for the area (para. 5.7.0).
5.6.2     Scheme/Group Approach:  There is need to look critically at both
scheme and group approaches. In the case of the former, extension services
were only rendered to the scheme farmers and their non-scheme counterparts
were more or less ignored. As regards the group approach, which was
formed for the purpose of obtaining credit (para.4.6.4 and 4.6.5), the
group would discuss development plans with the help or the extension
worker. This was fortunate to the group farmers and unfortunate to the
non-group farmers and the development programmes as a whole as extension
efforts were concentrated on group farmers.
5.6.3     From the training point of view, it would appear that both staff
and farmer training addresses a wide range of topics and issues in general
terms including crop and animal husbandry, home economics, health, credit,
crop storage, etc. The most critical aspects of crop and livestock
management practices were, however. not addressed in a manner sufficient to
motivate the necessary improvements (Text Table 9), for crops. The low
plant population density is due to ridge spacing and spacing within the
ridges.
5.7.0     Research:  Research activities in Phase II were tailored to fit
the requirements of the national programmes. There was little emphasis on
solving project oriented problems. In a district as ecologically diverse as
Karonga, it is necessary that locally based programmes should be carried
out. Because of the way the research programmes operated, project
management did not get the requlated information in time.



- 41 -
Text Table 9: Agronomy Results - KCRDP II
1977/78 1978/79 1979/80
---(X of growers)---
(i) Using improved seed
- Maize                             35        1         7
-  Groundnuts                      -          2         4
-  Rice                             75       42        33
(ii) Using fertilizer/manure
- Maize                             31        3        12
-  Groundnuts                      -          -         -
-  Rice                            48        52        49
(iii) Planting early
-  Maize (before 30th December)   68         62        75
-  G/Nuts (before Jan. 15th)        64       71        59
-  Cotton (before March 15th)       60       97        91
(iv) With Option density
-  Maize (35,000 Plants/Ha)         18       20        10
(v)  Weeding on time
- Maize                            98        93        80
-  Groundnuts                       96       93        93
-  Rice                             93       75        81
- Cotton                            98      100       100
Note: The figures are low under (i) and (ii), probably
because of late distritution of inputs.
Source: Evaluation Section Annual Surveys - KCRDP.
5.8       Economic Impact -  Evidence on the impact of the project on the
economy of Karonga and Chitipa is incomplete, such information as there is,
however, can provide a general picture of the direction of changes (For
more details see Annex VII).
5.8.1     The National Sample Surveys of Agriculture Income and Expenditure
Survey was designed on a national basis, and at project level the small
sample size produces unreliable results. Data on ADMARC purchases show the
trend in income from farm produces through-official channels. An estimate
of changes in the volume of sales of produce sold in local markets, to
supplement this, can be obtained from records of market fee collections.
5.8.2     Beyond this, an idea of the direction of change of incomes can be
found from information on savings and investment. Investment in human
capital can be estimated from primary school attendance figures which is a
high priority in most households budgets. The District Councils sell
licenses to all traders and craftmen, but records are unreliable or
non-existent. The effect of changing incomes on local businesses can be
assessed, however, by considering savings data (Annex VII(f)).



5.8.3     Eviden.- cnr. income from sales to ADMARC, farmer's institutional
savings and debts, cash purchase of farm implements, spending on education
and the non-agricultural economy in Karonga district shows a marked, even
quite rapid, improvement until the late 1970s. There is a small down-turn
in the value of ADMARC purchases 1974, reflected in other variables a year
or s0   '     The value of ADMARC purchases reached a peak in 1977/78, and
clas declined consistently since then, followed with various time lags, by
the other variables (Also sse annex VIII(a/b)). The only variable not
following this pattern is the uptake of implements and oxen on credit,
which has increased steadily throughout Phase II. Credit for these items is
largely unpaid, however, and unless other variables begin to show a renewed
improvement debts are likely to rise and foreclosure of some of the loans
will follow, as farmers find themselves unable to repay the credit.
5.8.4     Despite this downturn, most variables demonstrate an overall
improvement in Phase II as well as Phase I. ADMARC purchases appear to
move closely with seasonal variation in rainfall - 1977/78 was an
exceptionally favourable season, and rainfall has been progressively less
beneficial in the years after this. It is possible to view the downturn,
therefore as a temporary lull in an upward overall trend.
5.8.5     In Chitipa District, improvements have been more consistent
reflecting a more stable rainfall regime. Considerable increases in almost
all variables have occurred. These have taken place from a general lower
level than in Karonga.
5.8.6     The non-agricultural sector consists largely of wage and salary
earners, and retail and food processing businesses. The project has had
significant effect on the former, especially in Karonga, and this probably
accounts for some of the growth in savings in the mid-1970s in Karonga and
the late 1970s in Chitipa. The impact of the decline in Civil Servant's
real incomes in recent years probably also contributes to Karonga's later
fall in savings.
5.8.7     The major movements in non-agricultural savings are closely
linked to change in agricultural incomes, however, with a lag of one to two
year's.  In Karonga, where farmer's incomes appear to have fallen in recent
years, non-agricultural savings have declined also. In Chitipa,
non-agricultural savings have continued to grow, at an increasing rate.
97% of the total growth in institutional savings since 1972 is
non-agricultural, almost all of any rises in farmers' incomes goes towards
consumption or investment (Annex VII(i)).
5.9       Social Impact:  The benefits from an integrated rural development
project like Karonga-Chitipa Project are numerous yet extremely difficult
to quantify. It is apparent that with the project, there has been improve-
ment in housing, eating habits, awareness of education, job opportunity,
general infrastructural development, etc.
5.9.1     In Karonga, the number of Schools has increased from 56 in 1974
to 75 in 1981. Correspondingly, the number of pupils attending primary
school has risen from 20,000 in 1974 to 23,600 in 1981. In Chitipa,
attendance has risen from 13,600 in 1974 to 21,000 in 1981 while the number
of schools increased from 54 in 1974 to 69 in 1981. These schools both in



- 43 -
Chitipa and Karonga have been built largely on self-help basis (Annex
VII(k)).
5.9.2     Primary School attendance depends on the number of schools in a
district, on rural incomes and the cost of school fees, and on the level of
priority given to education in households' budgets. The project may have
an indirect influence on the first and third factors, by contributing to
the stimulus towards self-help work and committee participation and by
stressing education in its extension work. The Project's direct impact on
rural incomes, and the movement of attendance figures with changes in the
value of ADMARC purchases suggests that incomes are the limiting factor.
It is reasonable, therefore, to state that the project has contributed in a
major way to the growing success in primary education in Chitipa district.
The rising number of uneducated children in Karonga district must be cause
for concern, however. It seems that the project's economic impact has not
been sufficient to offset the increasing education needs of a growing
population. It may be, however, that without the project, the number of
uneducated children would have grown at a faster rate (see Annex VII(k)).
5.9.3     In phase IT health posts and maternity clinics were constructed
in Chitipa. In addi.:ion to this direct contribution, project staff assist
at "Under-Five Clinics" and teach health subjects to women's groups, and
assist in vaccination campaigns. Despite this input and from the data
available, it is difficult to recognise success in Karonga. Unless there
has been dramatic improvements in health, a drop of over 50% in outpatients
attendance at health centres in Karonga has been observed. Data on
vaccinations fluctuate widely, reflecting the difficulty of obtaining
vaccines and the emphasis on a periodic campaign approach. Attendance at
"Under-Five Clinics" grew slowly to 1978 and has since declined. This
reflects a decline of interest by the mobile team (Annex VII(L)).
5.9.4     In Chitipa, attendance by outpatients has improved, though this
canno_ reflect on the project since its facilities remain unstaffed.
Deliveries at maternity clinics have risen and this could be attributed to
additional facilities constructed by the Project. The number of
vaccinations fluctuates, though not widely as in Karonga, and it is hard to
see an improvement.
5.10      Impact on Ministry's concept to Rural Development:  The KCRDP
experiences have had some impact on the Ministry's planning and management
of Rural Development Projects (RDPs). A more intensified way of monitoring
project implementation was developed in a form of more organized Project
Evaluation and Monitoring Committee. This Committee now operates from
Ministry Headquarters and effects some spot checks on the various ADDs
including Karonga's implementation activities. This has enabled the
Government to spot deviations and take corrective measures in time.
5.11      Environmental Impact:  Very insufficient data on river flow,
conservation, siltation etc. exist. In view of this fact, it is difficult
to assess the impact of the Project on the overall environment. There is
therefore need for data for adequate monitoring.



- 44 -
6. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
6.1       The contributions to sources of finance compared with those
planned at appraisal were as follows:-
Appraisal Plan   Actual Development
Source              (NK'Million)       (MK'Million)
-Amount     X     Amount        X
IBRD                 8.3       75       7.8       74
Malawi Government    1.9       18       2.7        26
ADMARC               0.7        7         0        0
10.9     100      10.5       100
Contribution to Development account by Malawi Government was 42% more than
envisaged at appraisal. This was due to the following reasons:-
(i)  expenditure on 100% reimbursible foreign currency
capital goods was lower than initially envisaged.
This explains the lower contribution of the IBRD;
(ii) on the othcr hand, expenditures on capital goods
with the higher componant of local resources
(less than 100% reimbursible) was considerably
higher than initially foreseen. Consequently,
the contribution of Malawi Government had to be
increased from MK1.9 Million to MK2.7 million,
42% more than appraisal plan;
(iii)  investments by ADMARC never took place during the
phase and were postponed to later development
phase.
6.2       The cost on Development and Revenue Accounts of the KCRDP
component was MK1.2 million above the anticipated amount at appraisal (see
Annex IV(b)). This increase in expenditure was financed mainly from an
increased Malawi Government contribution. Expenditures are again revealed
when comparison of planned and actual withdrawal of the loan by loan
categories is made. For example overexpenditure in the KCRDP operating
costs, underexpenditure in the NRDP Pre-investment personnel and
consultants costs (see also Table 1 of Annex IV(b)).
6.3       As indicated in Annex IV(c) the amount of finance from IBRD
sources was less than anticipated for NRDP Pre-Investment component. This
was compensated for by an increased contribution of Malawi Government
resulting in a total expenditure near the appraisal plan.
6.4       The Lake Transportation (Table II of Annex IV(c)) component
resulted in some under-expenditure compared to the original base cost
allocation with contingencies added. In addition the proportion of
contribution from Malawi Government was above the amount envisaged at
appraisal.



- 45 -
6.5      Further comparison is made of the component operating costs for
the KCRDP. Costs of the construction unit and management components
exceeded the anticipated levels. These two components took up 49Z of total
operating costs of the project compared to the originally planned figure of
20%. Extension, livestock and land husbandry components utilized 24% of
costs compared to the 36Z planned. Evaluation, Research, and Hydrology
itilized 10% compared to the 16% originally planned. Health crets amounted
to a 2% of the total compared to the planned 7% (see Table V of Annex
IV(f)).
6.6       Drawdown of the Credit 1286-T-MAI as presented in Annex IV(e)
provides a comparison of the anticipated with actual drawdown. After
initially keeping pace with the planned cummulative drawdown to mid 1978,
the drawdown rate reduced to less than planned following the tightening of
project expenditure control at the time. The balance of loan remaining
at the originally planned completion of drawdown was subsequently used for
extension of the project life by one year.
6.7       Financial Control/Monitoring wes generally inadequate
particularly during the first two years of the project, due to:
(i)  staffiLig difficulties;
(ii) no computerised system, everything had to be done by
hand;
Xiii)  and inadequate system of quarterly report monitoring.
Financial Statements were however generally produced
on time. But they were inadequate for detailed
monitoring purposes.
6.8       Project funding was basically adequate, except the Construction
Unit funding which was cousiderably below required levels due to:
(i) low costs made at appraisal;
(ii) the very high inflation of costs (materials) during
the period compared to price contingencies.
7. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
7.0       Institutional performance is reviewed in five components:
performance of the project itself, of the parent Ministry Headqup'ters, of
the parastatal organisations, ADMARC and the donor agency involv-d.
7.1       Performance at Project Level:  The organisational structure
effected in Phase I continues in Phase II. Each project component or
section was headed by divisional chief or sectional head who in turn was
responsible to the Programme Manager.
7.1.1     Management Organization:  The size of the project in terms of
number of components and area covered and its diversificaticn in terms of
the natural regions invo-ved and different levels of development - (while
Karonga district was in its second phase of the project, Chitipa was in



- 46 -
first phase) - gave management no easy task. Manpower constraints in key
posts and quality of staff in supporting staff were faced in Research,
Construction and Finance sections. Delays in procurement of vehicles and
equipment were also experienced because of the lengthy procedures
followed. Despite these difficulties, management has done a satisfactory
job through a series of project reprogrammes, and by the system of Annual
Workplan, and budgets which allows adjustment of the project activities
accordingly, and also through a series of Ministerial Monitoring and
Supervision Cormittee meetings.
7.2       Administration:  The Administrative Unit which is part of project
management, has responsible for personnel recruitment and staff welfare;
and the maintenance of an adequate store of stationery and equipment.
7.2.1     Personnel recruitment in KCRDP II followed Government
procedures. It has been noted in other reports that these procedures are
cumbersome and time consuming and therefore slowing down replacement of key
staff.
7.3       Finance Section:  As noted in Chapter 5, the section did not keep
adequate and regular records of expenditure in the first few years of the
project, two reasons explain this shortcoming:
(a) the unavailability of aczounts assistants in
the section resulting in using industrial class
staff to compile accounts information, and
(b) lack of accounting machines to process the data
with. As a result of this deficiency, financial
reporting was inadequate and consequently serious
over-expenditure followed in 1978. By the end of
the phase, the situation was under control.
7.4       Evaluation:  In 1978, Evaluation Unit, together with other
Evaluation Units in other ADDs in conjunction with the Central Evaluation
Unit in the Ministry, adopted a common survey design and computer programme
to monitor and analyse crop yields and associated management practices.
Since the introduction of the above system, a number of surveys have been
conducted as given in paragraph 4.14.2.
7~5       Livestock development:  Most of the original objectives  of
livestock component as given in the project document have not been achieved
mainly because financing of this component was withdrawn from development
account after the 1978 budgetary crisis. Construction of dipping tanks was
dropped and the envisaged development programme of weaner/yearling
demonstrations at Lufita was not achieved. Alternative grazing area at
Chisi intended to reduce overgrazing problem on the fertile Karonga plain
proved a failure because farmers lacked confidence of the security of tneir
animals whilst at Chisi. The secEion, however, concentrated its activities
in the usual livestock extension aspects i.e. cattle dipping, castrations,
culling and marketing of the unproductive animals. Achievement on these
activities has been considerable, proportion of animals dipped have
increased, cattle population has been increasing at the rate of 3.6% per
annum and the off-take also improved during the phase.



- 47 -
7.6       Reporting:   Overall reporting on the implementation of project
activities has been satisfactory. Section heads submitted to the
Management monthly and quarterly reports for collation into project
reports. There has been a steady flow of quarterly reports between the
project, the Ministry and the donors. In 1978, the Central Evaluation Unit
of Ministry of Agriculture produced a standard reporting format for all
major projects in Malawi. This was also revised in November, 1981 and
introduced in all the Rural Development projects.
7.7       ADMARC Performance:  At appraisal, it was envisaged that ADMARC
would buy, store, process and market all marketable produce grown in the
project. Additionally, it was establish that ADMARC would provide inputs
and marketing facilities to smallholders. The Programme was responsible
for the credit institution whilst marketing was organised by ADMARC in
collaboration with the Programme Credit and Marketing Section. As indicated
in Chapter 5, the credit facility in the project helped a lot of farmers
and allowed for improved agricultural production. It was only unfortunate
that ADMARC's services in certain cases were not adequate and timely.
7.7.1     The Programme's marketing section together with ADMARC prepared
marketing schedules and the section monitored the progress of distribution
of farm inputs and implements to selling points and issues to farmers
thereof. It also collected data on credit and cash sales of these inputs.
Recommendation for upgrading of some mobile markets to seasonal markets
were done in conjunction with ADMARC and Extension Section. This resulted
in increase in seasonal markets during the phase. Because of this close
liaison between these sections constraints in the marketing system were
quickly identified although necessary adjustments were not always made.
7.7.2     ADMARC did not manage to provide seasonal inputs on time although
this improved during the last two years of the Phase. This prevented some
smallholders to adopt the extension recommendation correctly. Secondly
ADMARC markets operated with difficulty due to poor roads and lack of
adequate transport at peak marketing periods. Lack of adequate storage
facilities in ADMARC Depots caused a slow down in marketing. Many of these
problems could have been solved if ADMARC constructed the inputs stores
planned and if ADMARC brought inputs to the EPA Markets at the time of
transporting their produce back to the depots.   There is therefore need to
explore ways and means in which constraints of similar nature could be
minimised or eliminated altogether during the course of Phase III
implementation.
7.8.0     Malawi Government Performance:  The Government contributed 42%
more to development account than what was envisaged at appraisal and thus
filling gaps or meeting the shortfall in project funding. As regards
staffing, the Government has shown some weakness. As Annex VI indicates
the project was without Senior Field Devolopment Engineer and Senior
Research Officer throughout the phase. Other senior staff such as Senior
Administrative Officer, Hydrologist and Chief Credit Accountant have been
in post for only part of the phase. This inadequate staffing and high
turnover of project managers during the phase (3 Programme Managers in 4
years) must have affected the performance of the project.



- 48 -
7.8.1     Ministry of Agriculture headquarters on the other hand, provided
adequate support and assistance to the project. The Ministry assisted
project managenent in re-programming available funds to enable project
completion. Tighter financial control was achieved after 1978 with help
from the Ministry. Annual Workplans and Budgets introduced by the Ministry
proved useful in replanning and rescheduling some project activitie3 in
light of available resources.
7.9.0     Donor Agency Participation:  The involvement of Donor Agency is
reviewed here from two points of view - clarity of the Appraisal document
and supervision Missions during project implementation period.
7.9.1     Donor Agency involvenent was adequate.  The Bank provided five
supervision Missions during project implementation which allowed the Malawi
Government together with the Bank to examine the problems and arrive at
appropriate solutions. As would be expected, most of the problems
highlighted herein were identified and discussed at supervision round-up
meetings - i.e. problems of staffing, finance and general implementation.
7.9.2     The Appraisal document (1084-MAI) provided adequate basis on
which to formulate component budgeting and overall implementation of the
Programme. It was easy to follow and gave a lucid indication of project
objectives and targets. Annual work plans and hence compilation of this
completion report has been made easier because of the comprehensive
guidelines to project implementation outlined in the appraisal document.
Although there were overexpenditures in operating costs during the first
eighteen months of the project life, this was purely domestic and nothing
to do with Donor Agency.
8. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
8.1      Economic rates of return have been estimated for the project at
two l1vels. The first level is where all costs for components left out at
appraisal havs been excluded and the second level is where all project
costs have been considered. Although it was initially envisaged to carry
out another analysis comprising Phases I and II, lack of requisite data
(cost and benefit streams used in the first phase) does not permit us to do
it and instead only second phase analysis has been carried out.
8.2       Because of the problems of identifying and quantifying benefits,
it has been difficult to determine rate of return for tbe Lake Service
Component. Again no rate of return has been estimated for the NRDP
Preliminary Investment as the objeetive of this project component was not
tailored to orovide impact but rather to strengthen and expand MANR's
Central Services and increase its capacity to prepare and implement future
investment phases of the National Rural Dcvelopnent Programme.
8.3       The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for Karonga/Chitipa
Project is 33%. This excludes all costs of components left out in the
analysis at appraisal (i.e. livestock, hydrology, evaluation, health and
research). Considering all project costs proportionately, an 18% economic
rate of return is obtained. Mention needs to be made that benefits used in
the analysis were exclusively derived from incremental crop production, and
in view of this, the project has demonstrated a very high rate of return



- 49 -
(33%) over a period of 25 years compared to 16Z at appraisal, reflecting
substantial increases in production (of rice, maize and cotton) from
relatively low-cost improvements of use of fertilizer and improved seed.
8.4      The treatment of costs and benefits is discussed in detail in
Annex X.
9. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
9.1       Discussion on the overall project performance is hereby presented
for the following components:-
(i) Overall implementation and general organization;
(ii) Financial performance and
(iii) Project impact with specific reference to crop
development.
These areas are felt to be important components of the project.
9.1.1     Implementetion:  Phase II began in 1976/77 season and the
organizational structure is shown in appendix VI(b). Project management was
responsible for day to day running of the project and was given a
considerable degree of autonomy within the frame of decentralisation
programme. Planning of Karonga Phase II was in line with NRDP proposals
where a degree of autonomy is deemed necessary if management is to assume
responsibility of an Agricultural Development Division. The autonomy was
however granted to the project management too early before key staff were
in post to assist the project manager and even before adequate supporting
staff with sufficient qualification and experience were in post. As a
result of this, project management especially financial control slackened
in the first two years of the project. The situation was however controlled
by ]978 with the help from Ministry headquarters.
9.1.2     Achievement in construction of buildings, roads and drilling of
boreholes has been satisfactory even though the project was without Senior
Field Development Engineer throughout the phase.
9.2.0    Financial Performance:  In general, financial performance was
unsatisfactory during the first two years of th- project. Serious
overexpenditure was uncovered by 1978 and this was a result of inadequate
financial control which arose because of inavailability of sufficiently
trained accounts staff and lack of a proper accounting procedures and
machine.   The introduction of Annual Workplans and Budgets where project
activities for the coming year are documented in fairly detail and a
corresponding budget drawn has helped project management in financial
planning and control. By the end of the phase, ove;all financial control
in the project had improved considerably. There is need however, to
improve the level of detail of accounting data which is presented to enable
easy compilation of project completion report.
9.3.0     Crop Development:  High incremantal crop production has been
achieved in rice and maize (see Text Table 8 section 5.3). Incremental



- 50 -
crop production in these crops has consistently been increasing during the
phase because of mainly favourable producer prices which encouraged farmers
to increase cultivated hectarages (see Tables 4 and 5 in Chapter 3).
Yields of rice and maize have also been within the appraisal targets. In
rice, this satisfactory yield increase is a result of favourable rainfall
whilst high maize yields are a result of combination of favourable rainfall
and greater use of recommended inputs.
9.3.1     Production of cotton in Karonga district and groundnuts in both
Chitipa and Karonga districts has been below appraisal targets. Estimates
cultivated area under both cotton and groundnuts are aiso below targets and
groundnuts yields have been low. Relatively lower gross margins for cotton
than maize and rice is the main contributing factor. As for groundnuts, the
change from Malimba groundnut, a variety preferred for local consumption,
to Manipintar, an oil nut, is the main reason. In addition to this,
Caronga district is generally not a groundnut growing area and the little
that is grown there is not even enough for local demand.
9.3.2     The decline of cotton and groundnut production in the country as
a whole has been noted in other reports (see a report on Evaluation Study
of Lakeshore Rural Development Project). Because of the wide coverage of
the problem and the importance of cotton and groundnuts as foreign exchange
earners, it is essential for government to explore means by which
production of these crops could be improved.
9.4.0     Conclusion:
In general the project has been a success in as far as crop
development is concerned. Incremental crop production targets for maize
and rice have been exceeded through increases in cropped area and yield.
9.4.1     Achievement of construction programme has been satisfactory
except that of road construction which-was far below appraisal targets.
9.4.2     It is difficult to assess conclusively the impact of group
approach of extension activities at this stage. On the face value,
however, the method appears an improvement over the scheme approach in as
far as number of farmers who can be contacted in a given time is concerned.
9.4.3     ADMARC have not constructed the market/input sheds complexes in
Karonga and Chitipa districts as was originally planned because of ADMARC's
financial prob ems.
9.4.4     Overall, planning and implementation of Karonga II followed
closely that of NRDP proposals. The experience gained has been useful in
planning Phase III of the project and also in the overall planning and
implementation of other Rural Development Projects (RDPs) within the
National Rural Development Programme.
PART B : NRDP PRE-INVESTMENT PHASE
1.0       BACKGROUND AND FORMULATION OF THE PROJECT
1.1       The concept of the National Rural Development Programme (NRDP)
was born out of joint discussions between the officials of the then



- 51 -
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) and those of the World
Bank/IDA on th'_ impact of major Agricultural Projects in Halawi and the
possibility of these being extended to other areas of the country. The
heavy capital outlay required for the major projects weighed against the
idea of extending them over the whole of Malawi. Therefore as an
alternative, a rolling rural development programme which would cover all
the rural areas of Malawi over a period of 10-20 years was agreed on. This
would place emphasis on minimum initial investment on improved marketing,
extension, input/credit organization and roads and water supply
improvements in any given area in order to effect a maximum distribution of
available capital and manpower resources (see a document on NRDP proposal
for detailed discussion).
1.2       Malawi Government launched NRDP Pre-Investment Phase (1976-1978).
In the context of UNDP, the objectives and detailed activities of this
pre-investment phase were as follows:-
(1)  Expansion of MANR's Central Services in Lilongwe to
increase its capacity to prepare and implement future
investment phases of NRDP through:
(a) strengthenirg of the:
(i) land husbandry section;
(ii) agro-economic survey section; and
(iii)  accounting services by provision of
additional staff, and the necessary
supporting facilities;
(b) provision of agricultural research staff to conduct
crop experiments in six future NRDP sub--projects;
Cc) Construction of about 35 staff houses in Lilongwe.
(d) establishment of an evaluation unit comprising
of 15 staff with supporting facilities at MANR's
Regional Headquarters at Mzuzu;
(e) establishment of a road construction unit based
in Lilongwe and
(f) provision of consultants to undertake special
studies on various subjects related to the
implementation of the Project (Type of studies
required listed in Appraisal report).
(2) Preliminary investments in three NRDP sub-projects as
follows:
(a) Construction of about 20 houses in North-West
Mzimbal/ about 30 houses in Thiwi-Lifidzi and
about 30 houses in Kawinga;
1/ This project is now known as Mzimba Rukuru-Kasitu.



- 52 -
(b) construction of one training centre in North West
Hzimba, 2 training centres each in Thiwi-Lifidzi
and Kavinga;
(c) construction of about 20 boreholes in North West
Nzimba, about 16 boreholes in Thiwi-Lifidzi and
about 10 boreholes in Kawinga;
(d) construction of about 3 bush markets inputs stores
in North West Mzimba, about 3 input stores in
Thiwi-Lifidzi and 2 input stores and one market in
Kawinga;
(e) expansion of the extension and land husbandry
services staff;
(f) construction of the necessary office accommodation
in North West Mzimba, Thiwi-Lifidzi and Kavinga;
(g) construction of 2 bridges in North West Mzimba;
(h) construction of about 50 miles of rural roads in
Thiwi-Lifidzi and
(i) construction of additional health facilities in North
West Mzimba.
1.3       Funding of this project was done jointly with that of Karonga
II. The total estimated cost of this preliminary investment phase was K5.3
million or US$6.4M with a foreign exchange component of K2.6 million or
US$3.1 million (49%). The total project cost included physical and price
contingencies estimated at KO.851M or US$1.02M. These costs, were broken
down as follows in the proposal documents:
TABLE 1:
Foreign
Amount                          Exchange
Cost Component                        K'000 U.S.      $1000               %
Mzimba R.D.P.                           1,060         1,272               52
Thivi/Lifidzi                           1,060         1,279               48
Kawinga                                 1,270         1,524               49
Central Services                        1,938         2,326               50
Total Project Cost                      5,334         6,401               49
Source:   NRDP Pre-Investment Phase 1976-1978 Proposals.  The amount
requested from World Bank/IDA to finance this project was
K4.5 million or US$5.4 million (85Z of total project cost).
The balance or 15% of the total project cost was to be met
from local resources.



- 53 -
1.4       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources assumed the overall
responsibility of the execution of this project while the Department of
Extension and Training was responsible for implementing the project on the
ground, under the NRDP Coordinator, an Officer charged with the day to day
running of the NRDP Preliminary Investment Phase.
2.0      fl4PLEMENTATION
2.1       As shown in the objecti-es, NRDP (PI) was intended to establish
basic infrastructure in the form of houses, roads, staff in different
components, health facilities, ADMARC markets and procure plants and
vehicles. NRDP (PI) was also intended to strengthen Central Services in
terms of increasing its capacity to prepare and implement future investment
phases of National Rural Development Programme (NRDP). Discussion on the
implementation of NRDP (PI) is therefore based on whether these objectives
have been achieved or not.
2.2       Civil Works:  Tables 2 and 3 presents type of civil works
constructed by component. Most of the civil works proposed were in form of
houses for staff, offices and boreholes. Out of 118 houses planned, 107
were built giving a 90% achievement of target. Fifty-seven percent of
office space planned was constructed and 23 miles out of 50 miles of road
planned has also been constructed. No details are available of the number
of boreholes drilled.



- 54 -
TAME 2: CIVIL W1S COS1W LCTION
Houses                         LRT.C.             dge              rkets
(N.)           OfficEes         (NO.)            (Ob.)           (No.)
Description             Planred Actal Plmed Actual Planned Actual Plamea Actual Plamed Actual
Central Serces
-Tad esures Survey          3    3 
-Agro-Econoffc Survey       5    6         -       -       -       -
-Accoumting                15   15         -       -       _       _
Evaluation (Muzu)           6    6         1       1       -       -
Crop Exeriments             6    2         -       -       -       --              -        -       -
Mzitba/likuru FM           21   21         1       1        1      N/A      2       2       2       0
Thwi/ULifidzi RDP          33   27(2)      1       0        2      1        -      -        -       -
Kariga RDP                 28   27         1       1       2       -
Health                      2   N/A        -       -       -
Source: NRDP Central Services.
(2) Inchldes a hms bcught at Dedza Boma.
TAEE 3: OIHER CIVILW    CONS  W    IED
Description              Planned Actual
Boreholes                   47           exact rhuber not krnon.
Roads (miles)               50     23
Maternity Wards              1      -
Demrstration Kitchen         L      -
Source: NEDP Central Services.



- 55 -
TABL- 4     PLANTS AND VEHICLES
Description               Type                      Planned  Actual
Agro-Economic Survey      Motorcycle                    2       2
Crop Experiment           Motorcycle                   1        1
Mzuzu Evaluation          FWO Pick-up                   1       1
Motorcycles                  1        1
Bicycles                     2        1
Accounts/Construction    FWO Pick-up                   2        4
Caravan                      1       -
D6                           1       1
Grader  (120)                1        1
Roller                       1       1
Tanker                       1        1
Flat lorry                   1        1
Tipper                       3       3
Tractor (165)                1       1
Tipping Trailer              1       1
Front End Loader (930)       1       1
Mzimba Project            FWO Pick-up                   2       1
Peugeot Pick-up              -        I
Motorcycle                   3       3
Thiwi/Lifidzi Project    FWO Pick-up                   1        1
Flat lorry                   1       1
Motorcycles                  i       7
Kawinga Project           FWO Pick-up                  2        2
Motorcycle                   1       1
Source: NRDP Central Services
ADMARC markets and health facilities were not constructed. As Table 8
indicates, there has been a shortfall on civil works constructed than
envisaged at appraisal because of high costs.
2.3       Vehicles and Plants:  Table 4 presents number of vehicles and
plants by ccmponent. Almost all plants and vehicles budgeted for were
acquired by end of the phase.
2.4       Staffing:  Table 5 presents number of staff by section indicating
number of posts agreed at appraisal, posts created and then posts filled by
December 1978. By 1978, all the agreed posts were created but only 72% of
the total posts had been filled. Delays in filling posts are explained by
the delays in recruitment procedures. The overstaffing in accounts section
is explained by the extra accounts assistants employed probably to help in
the accounts section. Table 6 indicates number of staff by grade as at
December 1978. it would appear it was equally difficult to fill different
grades of staff.



- 56 -
Table 5     Staff Establishment by Section
December 1978
Description                 Appraisal  Created  Filled
Land Resources                    4         5        -
Agro-Economic Surveys             3         3        2
Crop Experiments                 6          6        -
Evaluation - Mzuzu                6(1)      5        -
Accounts                         17        16        29
Mzimba/Rukuru                    19        19        17
Thiwi/Lifidzi                   31         31        16
Kawinga Project                   2         2         -
88        88        66
Note: (1) Excludes Enumerators.
Source:   Consolidated Report on the NRDP Pre-Investment
Phase, December, 1978.
2.5       Strengthening of Central Services:  Strengthening of Central
Services as regards filling of posts in Land Resources, Agricultural
Research and Evaluation Unit as agreed at appraisal was not achieved by
December 1978 (see Table 5 above). As a result of this delay, adaptive
research in subsequent NRDP Projects was not carried out and it is most
probable that land husbandry work in these project areas also suffered.
This in turn resulted in lack of valid and relevant messages for the
extension staff to use at the beginning of NRDP I. The authors therefore,
feel that NRDP (PI) as a "curtain raiser" for NRDP as regards generating
relevant advice for farmers has not been achieved.
Table 6     Staff Establishment by Grade
December, 1978
Post(l)                         Appraisal    Created    Filled
P8                                    2           2         1
PO/CEO/CTO                            5           4         2
STO/SEO                               4           4         3
TO/EO                                17          18         8
TA/CO/Copy Typist                    56          58        47
STA/SCO                               4           2         3
88          88        64
(1) For definition of different grades of staff see
Appraisal Report.
Source: Consolidated Report on the NRDP Pre-Investment
Phase, December, 1978.
3.0      FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
3.1      Financial performance reviews the project's financial affairs with
particular emphasis on: performance, in terms of comparing actual and
planned expenditure, and drawing out key changes. Table 7 presents amount



- 57 -
of funds allocated, final drawdown on the loan and final expenditure, and
presented by category. Overall, MK2.49 million was the amount allocated,
MK2.44 million finally claimed from the donor and MK2.48 million is the
final expenditure on the NRDP (PI). Final expenditure is roughly equal to
amount of funds originally allocated.
Table 7: Amount of funds allocated, final drawdown and
final expenditure of NRDP(PI)
Amount         Final        Final
Allocated      Drawdown      Expend.
Description               MK (1)         (MK) (2)      (MK)(3)    (3 - 1) X
Vehicles, Machinery
and Equipment             468,000          433,730    455,245            97
Civil Works etc.        1,053,000        1,202,907  1,157,548            109
Personnel                 468,000          232,089    286,450            61
Other Operating Costs    351,000           469,532    525,212            149
Consultants               152,100          102,132      58,299           38
TOTAL                   2,492,100        2,440,390  2,482,754            99
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture Headquarters,
Finincial Coordinator.
3.2      Expenditure within categories indicate that there was
overexpenditure on the 'Other Operating Costs' and Civil Works categories
and there was underexpenditure under 'personnel and consultants'
categories. The high overexpenditure on the Operating Costs suggests that
provision for price contingencies under this category was inadequate
considering that pet-ol costs have risen some 97% between 1976/77 and
1980/81. The price contingency provision for civil works conistruction also
appeared inadequate as noted from the modest overexpenditure and the actual
cost of the construction programme as indicated on Table 8.
Underexpenditure in personnel can be explained by the delay in filling
posts and the underexpenditure on the provision for consultant fees is a
result of fewer studies carried out than originally envisaged.
NRDP I PRE-INVESTMENT PHASE
Expenditure on Civil Works (as at 31.3.79)
Capital Costs         No. in       Estimated    No.            Actual
Civil Works           Grey Book    Cost (MK)    Completed    Costs (K)
Training Centre             5         22,500         -             -
Offices (sq. ft.)       3,500         42,000        1,220        6,941
C                           5        106,600             5     108,918
D                          24        209,100            22     271,082
E                           4         16,400             4      23,690
PH2                        84        204,500            74     263,467
Boreholes                  46        116,000           -           -
Bridges                     2         90,000           (?)     156,000
Roads (mls.)               50         75,000            23      76,407
882,100                   906,505



- 58 -
Other Capital Costs
FWD Vehicles                8        59,410            11        86,484
Flat lorries                2        27,500             1        11,985
Tippers                     3        46,500             6        88,419
Tractors (MK 165)           1        10,280             1         9,300
D6                          1        77,400             -          -
Graders                     1        52,650             1        49,500
Tanker                      1        10,600             1         5,075
Motorcycles                15          9,000           13         7,440
Roller                      1        29,250             -          -
Caravan                     1         4,500             -          -
Galion Shovel                          -                1        48,387
Other Equipment                      66,000                      43,720
Total Other Costs                   393,090                     350,510
Total Civil Works                 1,275,190                   1,257,015
4.0       OVERALL EVALUATION
This section brings together the various key issues from section
2 to 3 to provide overall evaluation of NRDP (PI). Repetition of previous
comments is inevitable but serves to emphasise the points already made.
4.1       Housing and Buildings
Ninety per cent of houses planned, 57% of all offices, and 46%
of the road programme have been built. Cost overruns in the construction
programme has been the main problem. By December, 1973, most of the
building was underway indicating that the constructing programme was not
behind schedule. The exact number of boreholes constructed is not
available.
4.2       Staffing
All posts proposed at appraisal in Land Resources, research and
evaluation were created, but there were delays in filling these pcsts
resulting in delays in carrying out relevant trials in subsequent NRDP
project areas.
4.3       Financial Performance
Overall, there was no overexpenditure at the end of the phase
suggesting that financial control was satisfactory. There was however
overexpenditure in some of the categories such as Operating Costs and Civil
Works as a result of the inadequate provision for price contingencies. In
awareness of the incoming overexpenditure, the governnent curtailed the
construction programme to balance up the expenditure.
5.0       CONCLUSZ.NS
5.1       Infrastructural development has been achieved.  No attempt has
been mede to assess the effect or impact of the developed infrastructure
because the project was only for two years and its objectives were not
geared towards this end. The work which was supposed to be done by Land



- 59 -
Rssources and Agricultural Research in proposed NRDP project areas was not
done because of the problem of filling the posts agreed at appraisal on
this basis, therefore, NRDP(PI) has been a failure.
PART C - LAKE TRANSPORT
1.0       BACKGROUND
1 1       Efforts to improve lake transport between Karonga and Chipoka
harbour began in Phase I of Karonga Project. In Phase 1, the improvement
of the lake transport was in the form of constructing two jetties and
associated structures at Chilumba in Karonga district and Chipoka in Salima
district. The need to improve lake transport was felt necessary because
most of the cargo between Karonga and the Southern Region was normally
carried by ship as a result of poor road condition between Karonga and the
South.
1.2       Karonga town has no natural harbour, therefore, it was agreed
that Chilumba which is 80 kilometers from Karonga town be improved.
Chipoka harbour was chosen because it is connected to the railway.
1.3       Karonga Phase I proposals justified the improvement of lake
transport by the increased cargo which would be carried to and from Karonga
as a result of the agricultural groject. Phase I completion report stated
that construction of the jetty at Chipoka was not carried out because funds
allocated were insufficient (for details see completion report Phase I).
1.4       Like Phase I, the need for the improvement of lake transport
between Karonga and Chipoka in Phase II came about because the road link
between Karonga and the South was poor. Unlike Phase I, discussions for
the improvement of the lake transport were going on parallel to proposals
to improve the road link between Karonga and the So-th.
1.5       Improvement of the lake transport was to take the form of:



- 60 -
Chipoka Port                  Estimated Cost (MK'OOO)
Construction of berths
transit shed, rail-siding
access road, utilities and
supporting facilities 1/           1,376
Cargo handling equipment             139
Refitting of MV Mpasa                 21
Sub-total                   T136
Physical Contingencies 2/            139
Price Contingencies 3/ -             404
TOTAL COST                         2,079
Note:  (1)  Includes 12% for design and supervision.
(2) Included at 10% of base cost, excluding
design and supervision.
(3) Included at 13% of base co08 plus
physical contingencies for years 1 and
12% for year 2.
Source: Karonga II Appraisal Report.
1.6       Refitting of the MV Mpasa, an oil tanker, was viewed necessary in
order to increase its oil carrying capacity to 200 short tons, in order to
cope with the expected increase of vehicles in the project area and also
the expected traffic increase on the lake. Justification of the
improvement of lake transport like in Phase I was in form of increased
volume of cargo carried on the lake.
2.O       IMPLEMENTATION
2.1       Implementation of the lake transport component was the responsi-
bility of Ministry of Transport and Communication. Malawi Railways, a
statutory body, was responsible for the management of the project on site
and the day to day decision making. Chipoka harbour civil work
construction was contracted out in October 1977. The rehabilitation of MV
Mpasa was never carried Out because of various technical reasons and,
instead a barge was brought to carry fuel. The cost of this barge was met
from local sources. Procurement of cargo handling equipment was done
directly by IDA under Clause 6 of the Standard payment procedures of World
Bank.
2.2      Chipoka Harbour Improvement:  Funds allocated for Chipoka were
insufficient because allocation of funds was based on preliminary estimate
sometime before design was completed. As a result, the following were
omitted from the contract to avoid overexpenditure:



- 61 -
3 of the 4 pipelines                        K45,000 estimate
Ro-ro facility, except the)                   78,000
land based work      )
Port Masters office block                    15,000
Workshop                                      16,000
Foot bridge                                   21,000
Total                                        175,000
Escalation and contingency                    21,000
Associated works 1/                         115,000
Total                                      K311,000
Note: 1/ possibly includes contingencies.
Source: Ministry of Transport and Communicstions.
2.3      Table 1 presents detailed breakdown of estimated and actual
expenditures.
Table 1: Actual and Estimated Expenditure on Lake Transport
Description                       Estimated    Actual        X
Civil Works at Chipoka,
design and supervision            1,879,502    1,824,786    97
MV Mpasa and Handling
equipment                           182,048       163,725 1/ 89
Total                             2,070,550    2,057,969 2/ 99
NOTE:  1/  Excludes provision for refitting the MV Mpasa.
2/ Total Final expenditure does not tally with that
shown in Annex IV(c) because it is not clear
whether or not the cost of the handling equipment
was met from local contribution.
Source: Ministry of Transport and Communication files.
Final expenditure was within the appraisal estimate of MK2.07M because
other items mentioned in paragraph 2.2 were excluded in the contract. If
all items proposed at appraisal were included and the MV Mpasa refitted as
planned there would have been overexpenditure. The civil works
construction at Chipoka, however, was not completed on schedule because of
the nation-wide shortage of cement at that time.
2.4       Freight traffic -  Table 2 shows actual dry cargo traffic in
short tons at Chilumba harbour. Estimated dry cargo traffic is also
provided for Chipoka harbour for comparison. It is apparent from this
table that the amount of cargo either forwarded or received from each of
these harbours has been increasing with time indicating how busy these
ports have been.



- 62 -
Table 2: Lake Transport Service (tonnage by Port), 1974-1979
l                   l                  Y E A R S
Harbour
l                         1974              1976             1979
IF~ ~~_
I         Forwarded   23375(16800)1/  24460(16240)1/  25323(19050)
JChipoka
Received     6563(10600j1/   6722(12780)1/   9545(16450)
I         Forwarded    5115             5359             8935
IChilumba
I         Received     3970              8573           10530
Note:  1/ Estimated dry cargo traffic.  Figures in brackets are
estimated appraisal targets.
Source:   Ministry of Transport and Communication files and
Appraisal Report, Annex 13.
3.0       CONCLUSIONS
3.1       From the above, it can be concluded that a considerable part of
the work proposed at appraisal under the general objective of lake
transport improvement has been done. The barge has been bought instead of
rehabilitating the MV Mpasa. Considerable civil works have been completed
at Chipoka harbour. Overexpenditure was avoided by replanning and.
reviewing the priorities of the structures to be constructed or items to be
bought.
3.2      Chipoka and Chilumba harbours are being used and amount of cargo
handled is increasing with time.



- 63 -
MALAWI GOVERNIENT
P R O J E C T    C O M P L E T I   N R E P O R T
KARONGA-CHITIPA
RURAL   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
P BASE  II
ANNE NX S
Ministry of Agriculture
Planning Division
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
February 1983



- 64 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Karonga-Chitipa Rural Development Project, Phase II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEXES                                                         Annex No.
Summary of Infrastructural at the Commencement                    1
and end of Phase II
Infrastructural Development, KCRDP II                             l(b)
References                                                       II
Description of the Project                                      III
Request for Re-Programming of Funds for Loan
1286-T-MAI                                                    IV(a)
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 1286T-MAI                 IV(b)
Estimates of Expenditure in Malawi Kwacha                        IV(c'
Final Expenditure by Category                                    IV(d)
Drawdown of the Credit (1286T-MAI)                               IV(e)
KCRDT Operating Costs by Component                               IV(f)
Procurement of Plants and Vehicles                                V
Senior Staff Personnel, KRDP, KCRDP                              VI(a)
KCRDP Organization Chart                                         VI(b)
Value of ADMARC Purchases                                       VII(a/b)
Incremental Value of ADMARC Purchases, by Phase                 VII(c)
Market Fees                                                     VII(d)
Savings by Farmers                                              VII(e)
Credit Outstanding as on 30th September, 1981                   VII(f)
Investment in Farm Implements                                   VII(g)
Savings, Non-Agricultural                                       VII(h)
Spending on Primary School Education                            VII(i)
Primary School Attendance                                       VIlI(J/k)
Health Statistics                                               VII(1)



- 65 -
ANNEXES (Cont'd.)
Annex No.
Cattle Numbers, Growth Rates and Offtake                        VIII(a)
Dipping Tank Statistics                                         VIII(b)
Dipping Statistics                                              VIII(c)
Cattle Market Statistics                                        VIII(d)
Number of Castrations per year by District                      VIII(e)
Livestock Slaughter Statistics                                  VIII(f)
Seasonal Credit Issues and Recovery                               IX(a)
Medium Term Credit Issues and Recovery                             IX(b)
Number of Credit Farmers                                           IX(c)
Economic Analysis                                                  X



- 66 -
Annex 1
Summary of infrastructure facilities available
in Karonga and Chitipa districts at the commencement
and end Phase II Project
Commencement of Phase II (1976)   End of Phase II
Staff Housing MANR)      Type                      Number
B                           1)
C                          12)    See Annex 1(b)
D                          22)    for additional
E                          78)    houses.
p                          73)
Education Facilities      Secondary Schools            3            3
Correspondence Centres      6
Primary Schools           108           144
Health Facilities -       Hospitals                    3            3
Primary Health Centres      2             3
Sub-Centres                15            15
Health Posts                4            11
Dispensaries                1             1
Communications            Post Offices                 2            2
Postal Agencies            12            12
Airfields                   3             3
Resthouses                  3             3
Telephone Communications  Karonga & Chitipa towns
only
Roads                      See map No. 14
Livestock Facilities      Dip Tanks                   41           44
Cattle Markets              4             4
ADMARC Facilities         Depots                       3            3
Bulk Markets               49            84
Local Produce Markets       8             9
Extension & Training      Residential Training
Centres                    1             3
Day Training Centres        5             7
Boreholes and Wells                                   -           112
Source: KCRDP Phase II and III Proposal documents.



- 67 -
ANNEX 1(b)
Infrastructure Development: Phase II
(Karonga/Chitipa Districts)
Phase II
Target          Achievement
Dip Tanks                                        2                 0
Boreholes: Livestock                             4    )
Health                               8    )            83
General                             80    )
Roads: Construction                            44.5 (miles))
Improvement                             54.5 (      ))     30.4
Bridges                                         67                 6
Culverts                                        20                17
Drifts                                           2                 1
Maternity Wards                                  5                 5
Health Posts                                     7                 7
Houses: Type A                                   3    )
B                                 13    )
c                                 13    )            95
D Health                          23    )
D General                         46    )
Market and Input store complexes                 9                 0
Small Input Sheds                               8                  0
Training Centre: Day                             1                 1
Training Centre: Residential
(upgrading)                    2                 2
Source: Malawi Appraisal Report and KCRDP Headquarters



- 68 -
ANNEX II
ANNEX II
References
1.    Karonga Development Project Proposals submitted by Malawi
Government 1970.
2.    A review of the Agriculture in the Northern Province of
Malawi and Recommendations for future Development and
Reorgrnization, IBRD/IDA 1967.
3.    Appraisal of Karonga Rinal Development Project, Malawi.
IBRD/IDA Report No.7A-106a 1971.
4.    Project Performance Audit Report.  Malawi Karonga Rural
Development Project - Phase I. The World Bank Operations
Evaluation Department, 1979.
5.    Karonga Rural Development Project Proposals for Phase II.
Malawi Government, 1975.
6.    Malawi Appraisal of the Karonga Rural Development Project,
Phase II. World Bank Report No.1084-MAI 1976.
7.    Files of Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
8.    Report on Audit/Supervision Visit to Karonga Project,
Central Evaluation Unit, 1978. (Confidential and
Restricted)
9.    National Rural Development Programme National Credit Study
Phase I, 1980.
10.   Evaluation of Lakeshore Rural Development Project,
February 1982.
11.   Ministry of Transport files.
12.   1966 and 1977 Population Census.
13.   NSSA 1980/1981 Preliminary Report.



- 69 -
ANNEX III
ANNEX III
Description of the Project
A.     For Karonga and Chitipa Districts, the Project was described as
follows:
(1) Continuation and expansion of field extension
services to farmers.
(2) Continuation and extention of animal and Iand
husbandry services.
(3) Continuation and expansion of seasonal and
medium-term credit for farm inputs.
(4) Continuation of agricultural and hydrological
research.
(5) Construction of about 6 market complexes in Karonga
and about 3 market complexes in Chitipa. Each
Such complex will consist of about 280 ton input
store, a market building and staff housing and the
construction of about 8 small input sheds in Chitipa.
(6) Expansion of health facilities including the construction
of 3 maternity wards in Karonga, 2 maternity wards and
7 health posts in Chitipa.
(7) Construction of about 20 staff houses in Karonga and
about 75 staff houses in Chitipa.
(8) Construction of office accommodation.
(9) Construction of one training centre and upgrading of
two trnining centres in Chitipa District.
(10) Construction or upgrading of about 90 miles of feeder
roads and improvement of other access roads, construction
of about 85 boreholes, about 70 minor bridges and about
20 culverts and 2 drifts.
(11) Continued ProJect Evaluatrion.



- 70 -
ANNEX III
B.    For Pre-investment of the National Rural Development Programme.
(1)  Expansion of MANR's Central Services to increase
its capacity to prepare and implement future investment
phases of NRDP through:
(a) Strengthening of the
(i)  land husbandry section;
(ii) agro-economic survey section; and
(iii)  accounting services, by provision of
additional staff, offices and the
necessary supporting facilities;
(b)  Provision of agricultural research staff to conduct
crop experiments in six future NRDP sub-projects;
(c)  Construction of about 55 staff houses;
(d)  Establishment of an Evaluation Unit comprising of 15
staff with supporting facilities at MANR's Regional
Headquarters at Mzuzu;
(e)  Establishment of a road construction unit within
MANR, and
(f)  Provision of consultants to undertake special studies
on various subjects related to the implementation of
the project.
(2) Preliminary investments in NRDP sub-projects as follows:
(a)  Construction of about 20 houses in North lest
Mzimba, about 30 houses in Thiwi-Lifidzi and
about 30 houses in Karonga;
(b) C',nstruction of one training centre in North
West Mzimba, 2 training centres each in Thiwi-
Lifidzi and Karonga;
(c)  Construction of about 20 boreholes in North West
Mzimba, about 16 boreholes in Thiwi-Lifidzi and about
10 boreholes in Karonga;
(d)  Constructicn of about 5 bush markets/input stores
in North West Mzimba, about 3 input stores in
Thiwi-Lifidzi and 2 input stores and one market
in Karonga;



- 71 -
ANNEX III
(e) Expansion of the extension and land
husbandry services staff;
(f) Construction of the necessary office
accommodation in North-West Mzimba,
Thiwi-Lifidzi and Karonga;
(g) Construction of 2 bridges in North-West
Mzimba;
(h) Construction of about 50 miles of rural
roads in Thiwi-Lifidzi; and
(i) Construction of additional health facilities
in North West Mzimba.
C.    Lake Transport
(1) Expansion and improvement of berthing and related
facilities at Chipoka Lake terminal;
(2) Provision of Cargo handling equipment at Chipoka
Lake terminal;
(3) Refitting of the motor vessel Mpasa to increase its
bnlk fuel carrying capacity.



- 7I -
ANNEX IV
ANNEX IV(a) : A REQUEST FOR RE-PROGRAMMING OF FUNDS
YOR LOAN 1286T-MAI
Ref. No.: 21/5/29/52                                       22nd November, 1978
FROM: THE SECRETARY FOR AGRICULTURE, P.O. BOX 30134,
LILONGWE 3.
TO : THE SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY, P.O. BOX 30049,
LILONGWE 3.
Copy to: The Project Manager, KCRDP, BOX 43, Karonga.
Financial Coordinator, Box 30134, Lilongwe
LOAN 1286T - MAI
Your 28/7/62/7/III/150 of 25th October, 1978 refers.
1.0       With reference to the re-program4ng of funds for Karonga-Chitipa
Rural Development Project, and your previous letter to RMEA of 12th June,
1978 (Your 28/7/62/7/Il/113). Subsequent to suggestion raised at the round
up meeting with an IDA Supervision Mission on 26th September, 1978 and in
the light of more recent cost-performance analysis of KCRDP, it is
proposed that the Project now attempt to run its full life of four years
(to 30th September, 1980) and complete the majority of the civil works
programme as agreed at appraisal.
1.1       The enclosed Paper No.1 entitled 'KCRDP a re-programming of
available funds to achieve project completion", indicates tbet the
projected deficit of K562,200 could be financed from the uncommitted Phase
I funds available and recoveries of outstanding debts owed to the project
and over-payments made.
1.2       The only proposed ommission from the originally agreed civil
works programme is for two dip tanks which are now no longer required.
1.3       We therefore request that you withdraw the original
re-allocation of.funds proposed by your letter to RMEA of 12th June
(28/7/62/7 ':II/113) and substitute the re-programming as outlined by our
enclosure Paper No.1).
2.0       The reimbursement percentage of the total loan 1286-T-MAI is the
subject of the enclosed Paper No.2 entitled "The Problem of Drawdown or
Funds from Loan 1286-T-MAI."
2.1       This paper indicates that there is no way, on the basis of the
existing 75 per cent reimbursement claim, that the full $9.2 million (K8.3



- 73 -
ANNEX IV(a)
million equivalent at appraisal) can be drawn. Two factors have
contributed to this problem. Firstly, the proportion of (100%
reimburseable) foreign exchange expenditure has been much lower than
anticipated at appraisal. And secondly, the ADMARC contribution to the
Project which makes up part of the local 25% is not claimable.
2.2       On the basis of these calculations the Malawi Government would
have to increase its contribution to the Project by K700,000 in order to
complete the drawdown of the loan at 75 per cent reimbursement (based on
the exchange rate at appraisal). Or alternatively request a chaage in
reimbursement percentage upwards. If for example the reimbursement
percentage was increased to 85% than increased M.G. contribution required
would be K200,000. At 80% then K500,000 would be needed.
2.3       You will therefore please make the necessary approaches to IBRD
to ensure sufficient availability of funding from 1286-T-MAI.
3.0       A third problem we would wish to bring to your attention
concerns the effects of decline in value of the US dollar. Our Paper No.3
enclosed, entitled The Problem of Decline in relative exchange value of
US$ for loan 1286-T-MAI", indicates that on current trends the IBRD Loan of
$9,200,000 would be fully drawn on a total Malawi Kwacha value which is
some K368,315 short of the original K8,280,000 to be funded by appraisal
calculations.
3.1       This is because at appraisal the US Dollar value was taken at 90
tambala. In effect drawings thus far have averaged at 87 tambala to the
dollar and based on current trends of exchange values future claims will
probably average out at 85 tambala to the dollar- Only if the exchange
rate were to average at 93 tambala to the dollar for the rest of the
drawing period could the situation right itself; such an average exchange
rate would now seem very unlikely.
4.0       Combining the two problems outlined above, namely reimbursement
percentage and decline in value of dollar, would seem to indicate that the
one problem offsets the other to some extent. Thus the low current
reimbursement percentage reduces the drawing of the IBRD loan whilst the
low -value of the U.S. dollar has the effect of increasing the
reimbursemient for the same Kwacha exper.diture. Either way, however, it
would seem to be necessary to increase Malawi Government contribution in
order to satisfactorily draw down the loan and complete the Project. Your
comments on this aspect would bo welcome.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV(a)
PAPER 1: KCRDP A RE-PROGRAMMING OF AVAILABLE FUNDS TO
ACHIEVE PROJECT COMPLETION
ARM IV (a)
PAPR 1: (RP A RE-F-1Wtff4 OF AVAIlABLE F[D TO
ACHIE  P)JECr  Q4=0I
K-GR1P CDSIS TO 31/10/78 AMD FuRSE  C0Sr
RE-ALTXOCATIONt BAIANCES AVAILABLE
CDSts aJlocated                              Estiated
as per original                              Amount       Projected
4 year programm   Total. CGsts (+)           Required to   Deficit
(catingencies        up to      Balance    Cmpleted         or
CategOry       added)             31/10/78      Pn2-d   Project          9urpln
Capital              807.5             379.0    +  428.5       101.0(1)  +  327.5
Operating:
Personnel         1,254.3            829.1    +  425.2       594.0(2)  -  168.8
Other             1,225.1           1,262.4    -   37.3      8D5.0(3j  - 842.3
Civil Works         1,636.5          1,580.2    +   56.3       394.0(4)  - 297.7
On Farm Credit       519.1               0      +  519.1       100.0(5)  + 419.1
TUAL              5,442.5          4,050.7    + 1,391.8   1,954.0      -  562.2
IUAL EEFICIT
Financed By:         320.7           A. ULcommitted Phase I funds.
200.0          B. Previous overpayments and outstanding
debtors recvered.
35.0          C. Airmt received from M.C.W. for Roads
pLorannew
50.0          D. Provisional estimate of aiunt od by MANR
Reverxm  accomt to EDP.
12.0          E. Anmt oed to project by MN in respect of
K 617.7             funds paid in advance fwr one dip tank
(Chfwanga) n  no longer required.
(+) Nte source Financial Coordinator, MANR  For Costs since February 1978 see
Attacbed B. Other Notes to table see paper I Appendix 1



- 75 -
ANNEX IV()
Paper 1
Appendix 1
(1) Capital Equipment
Previous budget of remaining expenditure        K117,000
Less Amount spent on this budget
(February to October)                       16,000
Remaining expenditure by budget                  101,000
(2) Personnel: Based on the phase over KCRDP
staff to Revenue Account according to that
programme agreed at appraisal. Plus an
additional K50,000 for A.D.S. Financial
Controller for one extra year.
(3) Operating Costs: Based on existing average
-osts of K35,000 per month (see attached
Paper 1 Appendix 3).
(4) Civil Works
19 boreholes at K4,000                            76,000
Road: as per attached schedule (Paper 1,
Appendix 2)                                    278,000
TOTAL:                                         354,000
(5) On Farm Credit: latest estimate of new funds
required in revolving account.



- 76 -
ANNEX IV(a)
Paper 1
Appendix 2
Road Priority                                            K
1.   Completion of 25 miles of Chitipa roads
(already constructed) with outstanding bridge
approaches and culverts to bring to M.O.W.
Class II standard for Landover (1).               28,000
2.   Completion of work on Nilwi-Ngerenge-Lifira
Loop (2)                                          30,800
3.   Completion of work on Makoma-Ngerenge Dip (2)    9,700
4.   Completion of work on Sefu-Kasoba Loop (2)        46,000
5.   Construction and/or realignment and/or
completion of Nkumbilende-Songwe (3)               6,000
6.   Construction and/or realignment and/or
completion of Kamome-Mwamkhumbwa                  24,000
7.   Construction and/or realignment and/or
completion of Mwamkumbwa-Kapanda(3)                 7,500
8.                  Nkhangwa-Ifumbo (3)                 27,000
9. a                Ifumbo-Chinunkha (3)                15,000
10.                  James Kameme-David Kameme (3)       27,000
11.               - Chinunkha-Ngoya (3)                 19,500
12.                 Ipenza-Titi (3)                     18,000
13.                Upighu-Kapenda (3)                   19,500
278,000
(1)  Source:  Project Management.
(2)  Source:  Road Report, KCPDP, (SCPO NRDP, 25/5/78).
(3)  Provision based on preparing roads to Class III (District)
road standard (16 foot carriageway and 2 x 4 feet
shoulders). Gravelled only where necessary (e.g. bridge
approaches on hydromorphic patches). Estimated at K3,000
per mile to include necessary cdlverts and minor river
crossings.
(4) Note that roads improvement for Karonga Housing Area
(K49,000 has been omitted from this amended programme).



- 77 -
ANNEX IV(a)
Paper 2
1.5       To overcome this projected shortfall and enable the full
drawdown of loan 1286-T-MAI (K8.3 million equivalent), Malawi Government
would have to contribute an additional K0.7 million. This would provide
the Project with additional funds as follows:-
IBRD 75Z                   2.1 (MK million)
Malawi Government 25%      0.7
Sub Total                2.8
Funds available            8.1
as per 1.3 above
Total Available           10.9
The effect would be to increase total project funds by KO.7 million above
those originally allocated at appraisal, leaving IBRD loan unchanged at
gS.3 million (equivalent).
THE PROBLEM OF DECLINE IN RELA'ZIVE EXCHANGE VALUE OF $US FOR LOAN
1286-T-MAI
1.0       The IBRD Loan cf $9,20O,000 is in terms of US Dollars.  At
appraisal the exchange rate was taken as 90 tambala to the dollars, the
loan was therefore expected to provide Kwacha 8,280,000 towards project
costs.
1.1       Total claims to date (up to and including No.85) have amounted to
K4,173 which have drawn reimbursement to an amount of $4,802,040.  This
means that the average-exchangc rate for drawings to date has been 87
tambala to the doJlar.
1.2       The balance of the IBRD loan available is now $4,397,960.   The
-value of the dollar has recently declined to 83 tambala although there is
some indication of a reversal of this trend. If it is assumed that the
balance of the IBRD loan would provide an average of 85 tambala to the
dollar then completed drawdown of the loan would only provide a further
K3,738,266 toward Project costs (or a total of K7,911,685). There would
therefore be a shortfall of K368,315 on the original funds budgetted for
this project.



- 78 -
ANNEX IV(a)
THE PROBLEM OF DRAWDOWN OF FUNDS FROM LOAN 1286-T-MAI
1.0       The original allocation of funds to the three project parts
(excluding ADMARC contribution) was as follows: (MK Million)
KCRDP II  NRDP  LAKE TRANS.   TOTAL
IBRD (81.4%)             4.4     2.2      1.7          8.3
Malawi Govt. (18.6%)    1.0      0.5      0.4          1.9
TOTAL                 5__      __       2.1         10.2
(Source: Appraisal Report, paragraph 4.19)
1.1       This loan falls within the IBRD "Third Window" category which by
definition amounts to a funding of 75 per cent of Project Cost. Leaving
out the ADMARC funded component however (which does not pass through
government account-and therefore is not re-imbursable) the proportion of
IBRD contribution to the total of K10.2 million amounts to 81.4%
1.2       The actual total drawdown of IBRD funded is determined by the
combined total of claims on foreign exchange expenditures (100Z
reimbursement) and claims on local expenditures (75% reimbursement). At
project appraisal and negotiation it was anticipated that the proportion of
100% reimburseable claims was going to be sufficient to enable the full
drawdown of the K8.3 (equivalent) loan. In fact the 100% reimbursable
claims to date have amounted to only some 5 per cent of total (0.2 million
out of K4.2 million); giving an average IBRD contribution (excluding
ADMARC) of only some 76 per cent compared to the required 81.4 per-cent of
total project.
1.3       In fact, if at negotiation it was realised that ADMARC
contribution could not form part of the reimbursable percentages, then on
the basis of the existing agreement there is clearly no way in which the
loan could reimburse 81.4 per cent of the Project on the basis of 75 per
cent claims.
1.4       On the basis of current trends, therefore, the probable outcome
can be summarised as follows:



- 79 -
ANNEX IV(a)
(MK'Millions)
KCRDP II   NRDP   Lake Transport   TOTAL
IBRD Reimbursement on
Foreign expenditure
(100%)                   0.8       0.1         0.2           0.5
IBRD Reimbursement on
local currency
expenditure (75%)         3.0      1.5         1.2           5.7
Total IBRD funds
claimable                3.2       1.6         1.4           6.2
Malawi Government
(unchanged)              1.0       0.5         0.4           1.9
Total funds available
to project               4.2       2.1         1.8           8.1
Project shortfall         1.2      0.6         0.3           2.1
Total as per intended
project                   5.4      2.7         2.1          10.2
Which indicates that the current system of reimbursement will
only be able to drawdown some K6.2 million (equivalent) of the
projected IBRD loan K8.3 million (equivalent). And the project
would be short of the difference being K2.1 million.



- 80 -
ANNEX IV(b)
LOAN 1286 (MAT)
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
TABLE I
Original Amount
of the loan Allocated
(Expressed in Dollar    Final
Category                      Equivalent               Drawdown
1.        KRDP
(a) Vehiclcs, Machinery
and equipment                    600,000             393,085
(b) Civil Works other
than market facilities
to be constructed by
ADfMARC                        1,000,000            1,277,909
(c) Personnel                      1,000,000            1,444,501
{d) Other operating
costs including credit
operation and drugs
for health component           1,000,000           2,154,665
2.        NRDP (PREINVESTMENTS)
(a) Vehicles, machinery
and equipment                    400,000             370,710
Cb) Civil Works other than
market facilities to be
constructed by ADMARC            900,000           1,028,126
(c) Personnel                        400,000             198,367
(d) Other Operating Costs
including credit
operations and drugs for
health component                 300,000              401
(e) Consultants                      130,000              87,292
3.        LAKE TRANSPORT
(a) Civil Works                    1,500,000           1,652,073
(b) Cargo handling equipment         150,000             191,963
(c) Refitting of the motor
vessel Mpasa   .                  20,000                -
4.        UNALLOCATED                        1,800,000                -
TOTAL                              9,200,000           9,200,000
Source: KCRDP II Credit Agreement document, Treasury and Ministry of
Agriculture.



- 81 -
ANNEX IV(e)
TABLE II                 ESTIMATES OF EXPENDITURE
IN MALAWI KWACHA
The original appraisal anticipated the following in MK million:-
BASIC    CONTINGENCY    TOTAL
KCRDP              4.0060      1.4300       5.4360
NRDP (PI)          2.1864      .4807         2.6671
LAKE TRANSPORT     1.5360       .5430        2.0790
ADMARC              .5560       .1449        .7009
8.2844     2.5986       10.8830
This appeared to be revised as ADMARC is not a cash item as far as cash
flow is concerned.
BASIC    CONTINGENCY    TOTAL
KCRDP              4.4720      1.5514        6.0234
NRDP (PI)          2.2764      .5042         2.7806
LAKE TRANSPORT     1.5360      .5430         2.0790
8.2844     2.5986       10.8830
FUNDS PROVIDED BY GOVERNMENT (1980/81 DEV. ESTIMATES)
TEC    LOCAL CONTRIB. DONOR FUNDS
077/050 KCRDP      4,881,800    1,011,744     3,876,436
077/052 NRDP (PI)  2,681,520      482,674     2,198,846
085/038 L.TRANSPORT 2,079,000     386,690     1,692,310
9,642,320    1,881,108    7,767,592
FINAL TOTAL EXPENDITURES
KCRDP            6,091,340    1,522,835     4,568,505
NRDP (PI)        2,482,754      620,688     1,862,066
L.TRANSPORT      1,963,515      490,879     1,472,636
10,537,609    2,634,402    7,903,207
2,727,221.00  7,810,388
Reimbursement claims from the Donor Totalled MK7,810,388
(Dollars 9,200,000).
Source:  Ministry of Agricultuire - Financial Coordinator.



- 82 -
ANNEX IV(d)
TABLE III                         LOAN 1286 (MAI)
FINAL EXPENDITURE BY CATEGORY (VIDE TABLE 1 FOR DETAILS OF CATEGORIES)
(1)  KCRDF                    MK               SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
(a)             516,052         Vehicles, Machinery, etc.
(b)           1,519,317         Civil Works, etc.
Cc)           1,605,348         Personnel
(d)           2,450,623         Other Operating Costs
Sub-total          6,091,340
(2)  NRDP (PI)
(a)      -      455,245         Vehicles, Machinery, etc.
(b)           1,157,548         Civil Works, etc.
Cc)             286,450         Personnel
(d)             525,212         Other Operating Costs
Ce)              58,299         Consultants
Sub-total           2,482,754
(3) Lake Transport
(a)           1,799,789         Civil Works
(b)             163,726         Cargo Handling Equipment
(c)               -             Refitting M.V. Mpasa
Sub-total           1,963,515
TOTAL MK           10,537,609
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture - Financial Coordinator.



- 83 -
ANNEX IV(e)
TABLE IV:  PHASE II: DRAWDOWN OF THE CREDIT (1286-T-MAI)
Table 6    U$0'OOO
QUARTER             PLANNED CUMUlATIVE      ACTUAL CUMULATI'V,
DRAWDOWN                DRAWDOWN
June 30, 1977                800
Sept. 30, 1977             1,600                   J,5>6
Dec.  31, 1977             2,400                  :',455
March 31, 1978             3,200                   3,119
June 30, 1978              4,000                  3,472
Sept. 30, 1978             4,900                  4,156
Dec.  31, 1978             6,000                  4,950
March 31, 1979             7,100                   6,298
June  30, .1979            7,400                  6,868
Sept. 30, 1979             7,700                  7,325
Dec.  31. 1979             8,000                  7,521
March 31, 1980             8,400                   7,754
June  30, 1980             8,600                  8,023
Sept. 30, 1980             8,800                  8,235
Dec.  31, 1980             9,000                  8,517
March 31, 1981             9,200                  8,569
LO-AN PERIOD EXTENDED
June 30,  1981             9,200                  8,742
Sept. 30, 1981             9,20C                  8,948
Dec. 30,  1981             9,200                  9,010
March 31, 1982             9,200                  9,200
Source: Treasury and KCRDP Files



- 84 -
ANNEX IV(f)
TABLE V : KCRDP Operating costs by Component: Actual Totals and
Proportions Compared to Proportions Allocated (Base
Cost) at Appraisal
To-_al operating                  % Allocated
Component               Cost (Malawi Kwacha)               a at Appraisal
Extension                    392,099                16         24
Land husbandry                49,012                2           3
Livestock                    147,037                6           9
Construction unit            490,125               20           5
Research                      98,025                4           6
Hydrology                     37,013                 2          4
Finance                      147,037                6           9
Credit                       196,050                8          12
Evaluation                   122,531                5           6
Management                   722,680               29          15
Health                        49,016                2           7
2,450,623              100         100
Sources: Quarterly reports and Financial records of Project.
Note     Un-allocated proportion of Operating costs of
mechanical maintenance component have been proportioned
out pro-rata according to vehicle operations charged.



- 85 -
ANNX V
Page 20
ANNEX V : PLANTS AND VEHICLES PHASE II
Appraisal                    Bought as
Description                   Plan         BougEt  . a Z of Planned
LWB 10-Seater                   2             A               100
SWB 7-seater                    3             3              100
LWB hard-top                    3             4               133-
LWB pick-up                    23            17               74
Personnel Carrier               2             1               50
Light PicI-up                   2             1               50
Motor cycles                   48            39                81
Lorry 5-ton                     1             1              100
Lorry 7-ton                     2             1               50
11-ton                     2            -                 0
14-ton*                                 I                 -
Tipper 7-ton                    4             2               50
Tractor 165/185                 4             2               50
Grader                          1             1              100
Lawn Mower*                     -             2                -
Trailer                         2             1               50
Plough                          1             1              100
Water Bowser                    2             1               50
Cinema Van                      2             --               0
Mobile Workshop                 1             -                0
Note:  Nothing was planned for items with an asterisk.
There might have been some need for them during
the course of Projects life.
Source: World Bank Appraisal document and Karonga Projcct.



- 86 -
ANNEX V
ANNE VICb)
ANNEX VI  SENOR STAFF PERSCNL    KW, IOP  PBASES I AND 311 
POST                1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978 11979   1980   1981
rograrzEe Manager                         -      --                -         =  =H--
A'sst.  P nrm    Mager                                    -l l
Financal Controller                         I- -      l                     -       -
Senior Adndn. Officer
Senior Field Development
Engineer
Field Development Ergineer
Senior Extension Officer (1)                     -              -     -
Project Of cicer (Karrna)
Project Officer (Chitipa)                                        I_
Training Officer                                                              -     -        -     -
Womz's Program.e Officer                           .
Sen.Agric. Fesearch Officer (2)                       ---
Agric. Research Officer                                    F  -                        -
Hydrologist (3)                               .___
Chief Iechdiical 5pervLior



KUMA
KARCNrA NR41, DEMOR   FROEC - HIA5 1OI
KRIU OrgzZdatin Chst
ecjt            Ad distmtior
gl :mmmrltmesl~~~~~~~~~mmm
Aglitural
and   mI" Hiubaridry                HydrologyI                           Credit IIArcraffMatsnProru
H



- 88 -
ANNEX VlI(a)
ANNEX VII(a)
VALUE OF ADMARC PURCHASES (K), 1967/68 - 1980/81
Note: Value - Volune of sales x current producer price.  Minor crops are excluded.
1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73
Maize           1,104      1,716     7,008     9,020     4,675     6,215
CHITIPA   Groundnuts      5,170      1,760     1,210     1,584     1,452      1,430
Beans             132       660         66     2,736       864     2,656
TOTAL           6,406     4,136     8,284    13,340      6,991    10,301
Rice           33,704              255,156   264,400   420,115   464,499
Maize             621        110         -         -       138         3
KARONGA
Cotton         28,545    21,863    12,953      5,984    15,615    23,617
Groundnuts      n.a.      D.a.      n.a.       1,584       616         2
|   TOTAL      62,870   159,341   268,109   271,974   436,484   488,121
Source:  KCRDP liwnagement Unit



MAJi
KAFA MML DEVELDRIJU  RE PRDl.   -RUSE IOI
IRDP Orgwization Chart
AO4AR~                Minitry of Atnture
Poect             Adadnlstrati(i
AprcLLitural
1I1                                      __N 1:z1 1t 1z1 1r1 t1 1r1 1:1 1r1 1z1
Iai~iI  taid Hubsrdry  Lvtock  PeBearch   dr



-88 -
ANNEX VII(a)
ANNEX VII(a)
VALUE OF AELARC. PURCHASES (K), 1967/68 - 1980/81
Note: Value = Vrlume of sales x current producer price. Minor crops are excluded.
1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73
Maize           1,104     1,716     7,008     9,020     4,675     6,215
CHITIPA   Groundnuts      5,170     1,760     1,210      1,584     1,452     1,430
Beans             132       660        66     2,736       864     2,656
TOTAL           6,406     4,136     8,284    13,340     6,991    10,301
Rice           33,704             255,156   264,400   420,115   464,499
Maize             621       110         -         -       138          3
KARONQA
Cotton         28,545    21,863    12,953     5,984    15,615    23,617
Groundnuts      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      1,584       616         2
TOM            62,870   159,341   268,109   271,974   436,484   488,121
Source:  KCRDP Management Unit



- 89 -
ANNEX VII(b)
ANNEX IV(b)  MEAN ANNUAL VALUE OF ADMARC PURCMASES BY PHASE
(K)
Pre-'Iroject     Phase I       Phase !I
(1967/8-7172)    (1972/73-    (1976/77-
1975/76)     1980/81)       MEAN
Chitipa
Maize                  4,705           17,265      130,740        53,306
Groundnuts             2,235              998        4,891         2,830
Beans                    892            2,105        2,494         1,811
TOTAL                7,832           20,368      138,125        57,947
Karonga
Rice                 222,150          579,182      761,9ZE       516,936
Maize                     174             384        3,216
Cotton                16,992           35,511       76,670        43,597
Groundnuts             n.a.               604           80
TOTAL              239,756          615,681      841,892       562,309
Source: KCRDP Management Unit



- 90 -
ANNEX VII(c)
ANNEX VII(c)  INCREMENTAL VALUE OF ADMARC PURCHASES BY PHASE
(K)
Phase I (1972/73-    Phase II (1976/77-
1975/76)             1980/81)
Chitipa
Maize                                          576,375
Grouudnuts                                      19,465
Beans                                            1,945
TOTAL                                        588,785
Karonga
Rice                   1,428,128             2,698,880      4,127,000
Maize                        840                15,210          16,090
Cotton                    74,076               298,390        398,466
Groundnuts            -    1,984            -    5,100      -   7,984
1,501,060            3,007,380       4,508,440
Note:  For Chitipa, incremental value   (mean annual value Phase II -
mean annual value Phase I) x 5;
For Karonga, incremental value Phase I - mean annual value
Phase I - mean annual value Pre-Project) x 4;
Incremental value Phase II - (mean annual value Phase 1I -
mean annual value Pre-Project) x 5.



- 91 -
ANNEX VII(2L
ANE Vl(d) : IW3   FES
(K)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Ngana        35.57   44.28   95.78   144.47  135.90  111.32   150.84  116.40
Ngereige    552.25  614.39  655.44  712.18  601.29  740.15  1254.31 1306.15
Mbande        n.a.    n.a.   51.23   139.72  198.06   100.01    n.a.  136.
ILpenbe       n.a.    n.a.  184.04   194.01   189.39  225.28  235.65  239.13
N5yunge       n.a.    n.a.   93.11   153.85  162.51  279.92  233.0   265.73
CbihJuta      n.a.    n.a.  467.21   650.61  761.57  855.69  1291.75  1729.38
1TOrAL         -       -    1546.81  1994.84  W48.72  2312.37  3165.55 3792.79
Armual average increas = 23.8Z
Note: (i) Kanga Boma ard Chitipa District maket data umvai]able.
(ii) Chages in fees have had an insifint iizpact mo the total
reve oDlected; these data therefore indicate dages in
uLnber of trader-days spent at mnrkets. If traders sell
approxiutely the     volume of produce per day tbrougesut the
period, the data represext cages in volue of produce sold.



- 92 -
ANNEX VII(e)
SAVINGS BY FARMERS (K)
YEAR          KARONGA DISTRICT                    CHIT IPA DISTRICT
Deposits   Withdrawal   Growth    Deposits   Withdrawal   Growth
in                                 in
Savings                            Savings
1972    18,241      12,653        5,588     4,217         3,058     1,159
1973    25,980      17,672        8,308     7,587         5,985     1,602
1974    52,690      40,500       12,500    10,532        10,182     4,350
1975    47,734      61,505      -13,771    18,224        14,641     3,583
1976    56,286      60,428       -4,142    16,286        18,602    -2,316
1977    66,477      66,339          138    26,305        20,692     5,613
1978    69,632      65,426        4,426    33,352        23,521     9,831
1979    58,685      56,949        1,736    21,024        20,479        545
1980    57,024      77,694      -20,670    20,666        18,458     2,208
1981    47,350      54,064       -6,714    20,573        16,093     4,480
TOTAL                           -12,601                            31,055
TOTAL PHASE I (1972-1976)         8,483                              8,378
TOTAL PHASE II (1977-1981)      -21,084                             22,667
Note: Figures are totals for all Post Offices and Post Agencies,
except Karonga and Chitipa Bomas.



- 93 -
ANNEX VII(f)
CREDIT OUTSTANDING AS ON 30TH SEPTEMBER
(K)
Medium Term      Seasonal       Total
Karonga
1977                 33,782         43,295        79,077
1978                 38,762          51,037       89,799
1979                 47,779          39,371       87,150
1980                 59,028          58,509      117,537
1981                 81,032          73,977      155,009
Chitipa
1977                      -          11,705       11,705
1978                 11,539          42,234       53,773
1979                 17,888          27,214       45,082
1980                 17,256          16,746       34,002
1981                 16,519          20,437       36,956
Source: KCRDP Quarterly Reports



- 94 -
ANNEX VII(g)
INVESTMENT IN FARM 1DHPLEMENTS
1. Karonga
Phase I  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Cash             n.a.      n.a.    9,572    9,771    7,221        992
Credit          32,701  16,081   15,292   18,988   27,568   39,712
TOTAL             -        -      24,864   28,759   34,789   40,704
2.  Chitipa
Cash             n.a.    n.a.        305    3,042    1,864    1,266
Credit            -         -     13,561    9,332    4,996    6,947
TOTAL             -         -     13,866   12,374    6,860    8,213
Note:    (i)  Karonga credit in 1976/77 includes Chitipa Credit.
(ii)  Credit is implements issued on credit, not repayment
of credit.
(iii)  Cash sales data not available before 1977/78.
(iv)  Credit includes work oxen; cash sales do not.



- 95 -
ANNEX VII(h)
SAVINGS, NON-AGRICULTURAL
WEAR               GROWTH IN SAVINGS (F)
POST     OFFICE           BANK
KARONGA     CHITIPA
1972             7,922         417         n.a.
1973             9,629         240         n.a.
1974            11,831       8,288         n.a.
1975             2,206       2,953         n.a.
1976            24,499       3,663         n.a.
1977            21,152       - 804        80,184
1978            10,506      10,584        119,64
1979             4,012       9,239        120,46
1980            -8,769     40,477         665,40
1981           -10,805     44,875
TOTAL            72,183    119,098
TOTAL PHASE I    56,087      14,727          n.a.
TOTAL PHASE II   16,096    104,371
NOTE: Figures are for Karonga and Chitipa Boma Post
Offices, and for National Bank Sub-Branch and
all its agencies.
Source: KCRDP



- 96 -
ANNEX VII(i)
SPENDIUM ON PRDMARE' EDUCATION
(K)
1974     1375      1976      1977       1978      1979     1980      1981
Karonga   60,180   59,223    57,504    67,911    69,522    72,711   72,051   70,820
Chitipa   40,788   44,631    45,639    42,693    51,762    55,629   57,156   63,070
TOTAL    100,968  103,854   103,143   110,604   121,294   128,340  129,207  133,890
Notes:   Ci) Based on primary school attendance data
Fees are 12.50 for standfards 1-5 and K4.50
for Standards 6-8.
Approximately 25X of pupils are in Standard 6-8.
(ii) Data on secondary school attendance not available.
Source: ICRDP



- 97 -
ANNEX VII(j)
EDUCATION : PRIMARY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE
Chitipa
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
No. of Schools          54      52     51      55     67      67     68      69
TOTAL                13596  14877  15223  14231  17254  18543  19052  21023
School-age
Population           28345  29036  29745  30470  31213  31974  32754  33553
% attendance          48.0   51.2   50.8   46.7   55.3   58.0   58.2   62.7
No. not attending   14749  14159  14622  16239  13959  13431  13702  12530
Notes: 1. Attendance figures are for July (Ministry of Education
records).
2. School-age population for 1977 is Malawi Population
Census estimate of 5-19-year-olds in the District.
Growth rate to determine other years is intercensal
growth rate (1966-1977) for 5-19-year-olds.
3. % attendance - total attendance x 100 + school-age
population.
4. Number not attending - school-age population - total
attendance.



- 98 -
ANNEX VII(k)
EDUCATION : PRIMARY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE
Karonga
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980 11981
No. of schools    56      57      59      68     70      74     75      75
TOTAL           20060  19741  19168  22637  23174  24237  24017  23607
School-age
Population      36312  37548  38826  40147  41513  42926  44387  45898
% attendance    55.2   52.6   49.4   56.4   55.8   56.5   54.1   51.4
No. not
attending       16252  17807  19658  17510  18339  18689  20370  22291
Notes: 1. Attendance figures are for July of each year.
(Ministry of Education records)
2. School-age population for 1977 is Malawi Population
Census estimate of 5-19 year-olds in the Distriat.
Growth rate to determine other years is intercensal
growth rate (1966-1977) for 5-19 year-olds.
3. % attendance = total attendance x 100 + school-age
population.
4. Number not attending - school-age population - total
attendance.



- 99 -
ANNEX VII(l)
HEALTH STATISTICS
1.OUTPATIENTS             1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
KARONGA
Attendance            278225  332483  187201  166221  165024    n.a.
per 100 population       285     326      175      148      141    n.a.
CHITIPA
Attendsuce              n.a.   84748   98671  124121  133872  153600
per 100 population    n.a.        120     136      168      178     201
2.MATERNITY CLINICS
(Deliveries)
Karonga                 2231    2566    2194    2561    2453    2791
Chitipa                 n.a.    1448    1602    1942    1726    1905
3.VACCINATIONS
Karonlga
Smallpox                4845    2164    4978    4769    4103    2620
BCG                     6547    7035    5860    5202    4654    5682
DPT                    14159    9243   13597   13245   11099   13306
Polio                   3941    8897   12333    4964   10497   13675
Measles                 7242        0       0        8      133    3539
Chitipa
Smallpox               n.a.    1971    2093    2425    1841    1266
BCG                     n.a.    2597    2666    2919    2546    2195
DPT                     n.a.*   5380    5467    5763    5857    6248
Polio                  n.a.    7035    5161    4457    4679    6277
Measles                 n.a.    2475    3671    2365    1663    1860
Notes: Smallpox includes revaccination
DPT and polio are sum of 1st, 2nd and 3rd vaccinations.
4.UNDER FIVES CLINICS       1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Karonga
New Attendance             117    725    541    627    580    466    511
Total Attendance          4072   4296   3571   4794   4023   3478   2952
Note: Chitipa data not available.
Note: Throughout, health data have gaps and appear to be inconsistent.
These data should be handled with care.



- 100 -
ANNEX VIII(a)
ANNEX VIII(a) - Table 1: Cattle Nmbers, Growth Rate and Offtake
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981       Average
Karonga District
Total Herd                 39,862  40,328  41,262  42,614  41,309  44,118  43,849
Slaughter                   3,024   3,473   3,243   3,443   3,461   3,986   4,648
Market Sales                     6       4      17       47      19      301     299
Total off-take              3,030   3,477   3,260   3,490   3,480   4,287   5,947
Z off-take                  10.6    1.2      2.3     3.3    -3.1      6.8    -0.6
Productivity (Z)            18.2    9.8    10.3    11.0       5.3    16.7    10.7
Chitipa District
Total herd                 32,560  35,313  36,783  37,135  37,734  40,517  40,100
Slaughter                   2,101   2,387   2,594   2,449   2,797   3,055   3,482
Market Sales                   630     723     506   1,103   1,120       821     383
Total off-take              2,731   3,110   3,100   3,652   3,917   3,876   3,865
% off-take                   8.4    8.8      8.4     9.8    10.4      9.6     9.6
Growth rate                  8.5    8.5      4.2      1.0     1.6     7.4    -1.0
Productivity (Z)            16.9   17.3    12.6    10.8    12.0    17.0       8.6
Total cattle population
(project)          72,422  75,641  78,045  79,749  79,043  84,635  83,949
Growth rate x                9.7    4.4      3.2     2.2    -0.9      7.1    -0.8         3.6
Productivity                17.7   13.1    11.4    10.8       8.5    16.7      9.3       12.5
Source: KCRDP



- 101 -
F                            ANNEX VIII(b)
Table 2 : Dipping Tank Statistics : Total Number of Animals within Each Register
in Karonga District by Year and Register
1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
A- Register(1)             j                                              *
Total herd                     39,862   40,328   41,262   42,614   41,309   44,118   43,8494/
Total in A-Register              N/A    36,427   37,795   38,636   37,769   40,006   40,051
Z of total in A-Register  I    -             90        92       91        91       91        91
B - Register(2)                                                                                    l
Z of total in B-Register         N/A          7         6        7         6        7         6
Total in B-Register              N/A      2,866    2,496    2,868    2,578    3,067    2,653
C - Register(3)                                                                                    I
% of total in C-Register         N/A      1,035      971       110      962    1,045    1,145
Z of total in C-Register         N/A          3         2        2         3        2         3
1                                                                       1
(2)  All animals within 8 kilometers of  the Dip tark.
(2) All animals within 8-16 kilometers radius of Dip tank.
(^3) All animals outside 16 kilometers radius of Dip tank.
(4) Total herd in 1981 fell from 44,118 to 43,849 due to probable
incidence of food and mouth disease (FMD) in 1980.
Source: KCRDP



- 102 -
AME~X VmIc)
Tam 3: Dipping Statistcs:  xbr oEf A18ls dipped 'per mek" for FebruarY nmd Auut
M.=tbs by Ye-r and District
I  I                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~98D asA%!
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    198D    1981          f total 
l                          l                                                                 cattle     I
                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~pquld   I
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_                  I.I
Ehary                   |27,542  22,421  30,648  34,744  31,480  25,866  25,443                58
i 1 st                       25,451  32,687  32,434  31,708   26,322  27,684  2B,223            63     I
CE[TIPA                    j                                                                            i
February                     18,578  20,899  25,473  24,287  19,325  26,602    N/A              66
A3gilst                  1  23,811  26,257   24,825  26,543  30,221  30,222    N/A              75
I E      crIi
Feb; ary                     46-,112   43,320  56,121  X,031   49,547  52,468    N/A            62
Aujst                        46,262  58,944  57,259   58,251  56,543  57,906    N/A             68
1/ More ardals ame dipped during tie dry steas  tbai they a    in
tS e rainy s
Som: KCRDP



- 103 -
ANNEX VIII(d)
Table 4 : Cattle Market Statistics for Karonga by Year and Discrict
1977     1978      1979     1980
Karonga
Number presented                   20       69        -       694
Total unsold                        3       22        -       259
Total. withdrawn                    3       22        -        131
Total sold                         17       47        -       301
Liveweight/head (axerage)         776      739        -        771
Average Price/head (Kwacha)    89.88    86.98         -    120.09
Price tlkg                       25.48    25.89       -     34.28
Chitipa
Number presented                 1,110    1,255       -       -
Total unsold                       325      339       -       -
Total withdrawn                    277      225       -        -
Total sold                         799      973      821      -
Liveweight/head(average)           615      593      594      -
Average price/head (Kwacha)    62.32    71.14    82.1)        -
Price t/kg                       22.89    ?6.42    30.4       -
Note:  Information is not available for 1975, 1976 and 1981.
Source: KCRDP Headquarters.



- 104 -
ANNEX VIII(e)
Table 5: Number of Castrations per year by District
YEAR                    KARONGA    CHITIPA    WHOLE PROJECT
1975                     1,983      1,311         3,294
1976                       567      1,475         2,042
1977                     2,024      1,643         3,667
1978                     2,325      1,475         3,800
1979                     1,817      1,410         3,227
1980                     2,024      1,534         3,558
1981                     2,430      1,272         3,702
Source: KCRDP Management Unit.



- 105 -
Annex VIII(f)
Veterinary Department - Livestock Slaughter Statistics
Summary of Each Year 1972 - 1981
Chitipa
District                Cattle       Goats       Sheep     pigs
1975                    2,101          28          6        18
1976                    2,387          18         11        37
1977                    2,594          49         17        43
1978                    2,449          72         18        43
1979                    2,797         112        50         67
1980                    3,003         183        91         42
1981                    3,482          78       147         64
Source: KCRDP Management Unit.



- 106 -
ANNEX IX(a)
Table 1: K      e: asal Credit lsses and Pecovery
I                    4                                     -            4                     1~I  I
l                    [I  divi-  Credit      Groips   Credit             l
Total1/  Total    I dLal                                              I Ammge         
l     ~ ual mer al   N' A l   Nuimber               *ma1          e        e       T hsae per  P-c'Y-ryl
I         lsats   o           Isae    of             Isv Es   of       cf    BDrramrs            Z
Year    (K'000)  Borrrs  (VOKOO)  Borrcws   (K000)  Grups  Borrawers1  (K) .
1972/73    1.4           43      1.4         43        -        -        -            33         98
11973/74   24.9        2,050    24.9       2,050       -         -        _.1          12        99
11974175i 75.0         4,073    75.0       4,073       -         -                     18        95
11975/76 1 80.0        5,115    80.0       5,115       -         -                     16        95
11916/77 j 109.5       7,253  1.109.52!    7,2532/      -        -                     15        90
11977178   186.5      8,929                  -        186.5    267        8,929        21        97
1978/79   147.4       6,522                 -        147.4    265        6,522        23         98
1979/80  2D3.3        8,940  I              -        aD2.3    423        8,267        23         98
1980/81  263.3       10,597     -           -        263.3    631       10,597        25         98
1/ Rcumded, incldiSng credit charges.
2/ About 100 groups are involved.
Source: KCRf,quarterly reports



- 107 -
ANNEX IX(b)
Table 2 : KCRDP Medium Term Credit Issues and Recovery
Total
Total       Number        Average
Annual      of            Issue per    Recovery
Year     Issues       Borrowers    Borrower         %
(MK'0Oo)                     (K)
1975/76     22.9           N/A         N/A           53.6
1976/77     16.1           N/A         N/A           12.0
1977/78     44.9           N/A         N/A           62.0
1978/79     73.3           406          180.4        84.0
1979/80    105.8           631          167.7        63.0
1980/81     52.5           872          174.9        63.
Source: KCRDP Quarterly Reports



- 108 -
ANNEX X
1.0       ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.1       INTRODUCTION
Following the Bank's advice on the computation of the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) of Karonga Phase II PCR, a revised ERR has been
computed. The main difference between the revised ERR and the previous one
is the computation of Phase II incremental crop production and economic
pric es used. In the original ERR the method used to compute incremental
crop production failed to separate incremental production of Phase I from
that of Phase II. In this revised ERR, this problem is overcome. Farmgate
values derived from actual prices have been used as noted below as opposed
to projected farmgate values used at Appraisal.
1.2       COSTS
Two economic rates of return have been calculated and these are
estimated on the basis of two different assumptions about cost streams:
(a) Exclusion of costs for project components not directly
related to crop production.
(b) Assuming all project costs are allocated to crop production.
In the first estimate, costs of the Lake Service, Health,
Agricultural Research, Hydrology, Evaluation and Livestock components are
exluded. Costs included, therefore, compr:ise nverhead and recurrent costs
for extension and Land Husbandry components; 80% of the costs of mechanical
maintenance and construction components and the management unit, and then
90% of the costs for Finance and Credit components. The reason for
apportioning costs in some of these components is that even though
components such as Management Unit are related to crop production, the
management unit serves the entire project. It is therefore logical that
costs for such components be apportioned.
In the second estimate of ERR, all project costs related to the
project are considered. These include costs for livestock, 80% of research
and evaluation, 50% of hydrology and health components. The reason for
apportioning some of these costs is the same as above.
1.3       BENEFITS
Benefits consist of incremental rice, maize, groundnuts and
cotton production. Incremental crop production for Phase II is the
difference between production levels "with and "without' project
situations minus the base year production. Incremental productions for
different crops, from year one to year 5, are then multiplied with computed
farm gate prices calculated from actual prices and the products summed up
to derive value of incremental crop production for each year of the project
life. After year 5 it is assumed that crop production levels (except that
of rice) will remain constant up to year twenty-five. In projecting
incremental production for rice from year six onwards, the very sharp rise
in year five has been ignored and considered temporary.



- 109 -
ANNEX X
No attempt was made to calculate incremental Livestock production
because this component was also excluded at appraisal.
1.4       FARM GATE PRICES
A brief analysis is made of the market situation for the projects
main crops. Information from ADMARC and Marketing Section of Planning
Un-t has been used to compute farm gate values at Chirumba and forecasting
commodity prices up to year 25. From years one to five, actual farmgate
values have been calculated based on export parity, and from year six
onwards price forecasts have been worked out based on the projected rates
of inflation on international commodity prices as outlined in Crop
Marketing and Price Projections report (1980) by Planning Divieton.



- 110 -
ANNEX X
Table I : Total Project Costs by Component and Year, 1976/77 - 1980/81
COMPONEM/YEAR                1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80  1980/81    TOTAL
Plant and Vehicles             -      295,163   104,738  116,151      -        516,052
Civil Works                  284,872  379,829  569,744  284,872       -      1,519,317
Personnel                    321,069   321,069  321,069  321,069  321,069   1,605,348
Exteasioa                     61,990   61,990   61,133   82,200   124,786    392,099
Liveseock                     38,632   38,632   24,873    24,105   20,795      147,037
Land Husbandry                 6,984    6,983    9,060    11,752   14,233        4,912
Construction and Maintenance  60,023   60,023   105,220  131,110   133,749    490,125
Research                      40,038   40,038    4,956    4,618    8,375        98,025
Hydrology                      6,750    6,750    5,184      9,011    9,317      37,013
Finance                        8,662    8,662   51,533   36,670   41,509    147,037
Credit                        35,823   35,823   30,268    39,479   54,662    196,050
Evaluation                    23,172   23,172   22,468   24,686   29,032    122,531
Managevent                    84,360   84,359   138,688  231,268   184,005    722,680
Health                         6,726    6,727    7,188   14,815   13,560        49,016
TOTAL COSTS                  979,101 1,369,221*1,456,117 1,331,806   955,095  6,091,340
Should read 1,369,220
Should read 1,369,220



- lii -
ANNEX X
Table 2 : Total Project Costs (excluding Health, Evaluation, Research and Livestock Costs,
(1976/77 - 1980/81)
COMPONENT/YEAR               1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80   1980/81    TOTAL
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - MK - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Plant and Vehicles             -       295,163    104,738    116,151             516,052
Civil Works                  284,872   379,829   569,744   284,872       -      1,519,317
Personnel                   321,069   321,069   321,069   321,069   321,069  1,605,348
Extension                    61,990    61,990    61,133    82,200   124,786   392,099
Land Husbandry                6,984      6,983      9,060    11,752    14,233    49,012
Construction and Maintenance  48,018    48,018    84,176   104,888   106,599   392,099
Finance                       7,795      7,795    46,379     33,003    37,358    132,330
Credit                       32,241    32,241    27,236    35,531    49,195   176,444
Management                    67,488    67,488   110,950   185,014   147,204   578,144
Sub Total                   830,457  1,220,576  1,334,485  1,173,480   800,844  5,359,842
Input Costs                 169,000   307,000   228,000   264,000   329,000  1,2975,00
TOTAL COSTS                 999,457  1,527,576  1,562,485  1,437,480  1,129,844  6,656,842



- 112 -
ANNEX X
Table 3   Incremental Crop Production (Metric Tonnes)
Years    Karonga    Karonga    Karonga    Karonga    Chitipa    Chitipa
R:Lce      Cotton       Maize      G/Nuts       Maize      G/Nuts
1      (1008)        (83)       (1718)        (81)       1,312       (103)
2         732        430         1922         101       11,562        (87)
3       3682         (11)        (753)       (101)       6,128        (22)
4        1822         32         (659)        (95)       5,724       (159)
5      10514          32        (1395)       (117)       5,291       (166)
6       4187          32        (1395)       (117)       5,291       (166)
7       4187          32        (1395)       (117)       5,291       (166)
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25       4187          32        (1395)       (117)       5,291       (166)



- 113 -
ANNEX X
Table 4 : Economic Farm Gate Prices (MK/Metric Tonne)
Crop/Year        l(a)  2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10  -  25
Rice            170   182  198  216  236  256  260  260  260             260
Maize            65    67   67   70   73   82   82   85   87   90          90
Cotton          351   330  375  440  451  499  534  571  611  611    611
Groundnuts(b)  245   233  234  217  210  210  205  205  205  211    211
Notes:
(a) 1976/77 season.
(b) Manipintar groundnuts only.
Source: Planning Unit and ADMARC Headquarters.



- 114 -
ANNEX X
Table 5 :  RDP II - Internal Rate of Return - Excluding Costs
left out at Appraisal
Total                Net
Year  Cost       Benefits  Benefits
(MK'ODO)  (MK'OOO)  (MK'O00)   DS CF          DSC FCT    NPV
1      999        215    -1,214    -1,062.238      0.14287    0.0281883
2     1,527     1,134     -  394       301.6495
3     1,563     1,037     -  526   -  352.367
4     1,493       708    -  785   -  460.1319
5      999      2,270      1,721       882.66663
6      999      1,348        349       156.61899
7      999      1,367        368       144.50071
8      999      1,380        381       130.90322
9      999      1,390        391       117.5453
10      999      1,400        401       105.48144
11      999      1,400        401        92.295221
12      999      1,400        401        80.75741
13      999      1,400        401        70.661938
14      999      1,400        401        61.828501
15      999      1,400        401        54.09A29
16      999      1,400        401        47.336381
17      999      1,400        401        47.418867
18      999      1,400        401        36.241101
19      999      1,400        401        31.710607
20      999      1,400        401        27.746469
21      999      1,400        401        24.277887
22      999      1,400        401        21.242912
23      999      1,400        401        18.587339
24      999      1,400        401        16.263739
25      999      1,400        401        14.230611
IRR = 14.3%



- 115 -
ANNEX X
Table 6 : KCRDP II - Internal Rate of Return - Including Costs
left out at Appraisal
Total                   Net
Cost        Benefits   Benefits
Year   (MK'000)   (iK'000)   (MK'000)    DS CF           DSC FCT      NPV
1     1,171       - 215         1,386   -1292.553   0.0722967  0.0043397
2     1,700        1,134       -  566      492.2509
3     1,693        1,037       -  656   - 532.0579
4     1,573          708       -  865   - 654.2688
5     1,269       2,720         1,451    1023.5111
6     1,125        1,348          223      146.69491
7     1,125        1,367          242      148.46038
8     1,125        1,.80          255      145.88829
9     1,125        1,39f          265      141.38754
10     1,125        1,400          275      136.83053
11     1,125        1,400          275      127.6051
12     1,125       1,400           275      119.00167
13     1,125        1,400          275      110.9'831
14     1,125       1,400           275      103.49589
15     1,125        1,400          275       96.517964
16     1,125       1,400           275       90.010502
17     1,125        1,400          275       83.941788
18     1,125       1,400           275       78.28224
19     1,125        1,400          275       73.004272
20     1,125        1,400          275       68.082157
21     1,125        1,400          275       63.491902
22     1,125        1,400          275       59.211132
23      1,125       1,400          275       55.218982
24     1,125        1,400          275       51.493992
25     1,125        1,400          275       48.024014
0.0043397
IRR   7.2%



- 116 -
} KARONGA CHMPA RURAL  DEVELOpMENPWE
4~~~~          ~~~ 10 IS*   aW3 A
M4ALA'bt
OgstVct  Uanowcry 
ma~~~~~~~~~Rc



- 117 -
KAR3z.;GA 2CF.ITPA  RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECr
ROAD  MAP                        Ma 1
P, __r f U
Ch~~~~~~~~'
PCAC tASSs L EEXS-!S PCcAOS 
ROSED U'IPQOVN9E4T   NIfW ROADS
NtCT: Ody 36. mk  of tho * o>sed rooft f%w bony  ccstruCcted-



