Report No. 1084-MAI                                                               FILE  COPY
Malawi: Appraisal of the Karonga Rural
Development Project, Phase 11
May 20, 1976
East Africa Region-General Agricultural Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK) = 100 Tambala (t)
US$1.00       = MK 0.90
MK1.00        = US$l.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 lb             = 0.453 kg
1 sh ton         = 2,000 lb = 0.9072 m ton
1 ac             = 0.405 ha
1 sq mile        = 2.59 sq km
1 bag maize      = 200 lb
1 bag fertilizer = 50 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
KRDP = = Karonga Rural Development Project
LLDP    = Lilongve Land Development Project
SVADP = Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project
CRLDP   = Central Region Lakeshore Development Project
NRDP    = National Rural Development Program
MANR    = Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOW     = Ministry of Works and Supplies
MOH     = Ministry of Health
MOE     = Ministry of Education
ADMARC = Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
NOIL    = National Oil Industries Limited
ADS     = Agriculture Development Service (IBAD).
Malawi Government and KRDP Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .........................    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ............................................ ..*    I
II.   BACKGROUND .* ..........         ... .    ..... .................  3
A.   General ........       ............................        3
B.   The Agricultural Sector            3...................    3
C.   Agricultural Services ..... ...........                    4
D.   Karonga Rural Development Project - Phase I.               5
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ................................                7
IV.   THE PROJECT ................... ..............................   9
A.   General Description    ........................            9
B.   Detailed Features ... ................ .. ...... .        10
C.   Project Cost Estimates             .....................  16
D.   Financing ...............................................  17
E.   Procurement  ................. .............. . *         17
F.   Disbursement ...................... ........ .            18
G.   Accounts and Audits ........................              18
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................        ..       19
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND
EFFECTS ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET ...............       .....       21
A.   Production ....................... ,     21
B.   Markets and Prices .....         ....................     22
C.   Farmers' Benefits .....         .....................     23
D.   Effect on Government Budget ....          ............    24
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............               25
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS . ............................... .             26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. H. van Voorthuizen and K. Niemann (IBRD), P. Reid and G. Kerkhoven
(Consultants), and A. Goala (ADB), which visited Malawi in October/November
1975; Messrs. K. Krishna and J. Russell (IBRD) assisted the mission during
the field appraisal. The Lake Transport proposals were appraised by Messrs.
D. Raymond, who visited Malawi in February 1976, and J-O. Fraisse (IBRD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dischsed without World Bank authorization.



AJINEXFES
1.    Agricultural Development
Table 1    - Crop Development, Karonga Lake Shore
Table 2    - Crop Development, Chitipa Plains
Table 3    - Projected Seasonal Input Requirements
Appendix 1 - Program of Trials for Karonga and Chitipa, 1975/76
Appendix 2 - Farm Scale Testing of Crop Husbandry Improvements
Appendix 3 - Summary of Crop Input Packages
Tivestock Development
Table 1    - Cattle Numbers, Grovth Rate and Offtake, Karonga and
Chitipa Districts
3.    Agricultural Credit
Table 1    - Estimated Seasonal Credit Requirements
Table 2    - Medium-Term Credit Requirements
Table 3    - Total Credit Cash Flow
4.    Crop Marketing and Prices
Table 1    - ADMARC Crop Purchases in Karonga and Chitipa, 1970-1974
Table 2    - ADMARC Prices for Selected Crops, 1971/72 - 1975/76
Table 3    - Budget for One Acre of Maize
Table 4    - ADMARC Crop Trading Accounts, 1970/71 - 1974/75
Table 5    - Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation -
Crop Trading Account for the Year Ended 31st March, 1975
Table 6    - Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation -
Profit and Loss Account for the Year Ended 31st March, 1975
Table 7    - Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation -
Balance Sheet - 31st March, 1975
5.    Health Facilities
Appendix 1 - Job Description of Health Staff
Appendix 2 - Health Unit Descriptions
6.    Staff Training and Requirements
Table 1    - Projection of Requirements and Availability of Technical
Assistants
Table 2    - Staff Establishment of the Department of Extension and
Training
7.    National Rural Development Program (NTRDP)
Appendix 1 - Additional Positions to be Established for NRDP Preinvestment
Phase



Annexes (Continuation)
H,.   Project Cost Estimates
Table  1      - Summary of PrcQect Costs
Table  !(a)   - NRDP - Preinvestment Phase - Summary
Table  2      - Extension
Table  3      - Land Husbandry
Table  4      - Livestock
Table  h(a)   - Lufita Agricultural Center
Table  4(b)   - Chisi  v     razfrg Scheme
Table  4(c)   - Karonga Livestock Center
Table  5      - Construction  Unit
Table  6      - Research
Table  7      - Hydrology
Table  8      - Mechanical Maintenance
Table  9      - Finance (Accounting Services)
Table 10      - Evaluation
Table 11      - Management Unit
Table 12      - M4arkets and Input Stores (ADMARC)
Table 13      - Health
Table 14      - NEDF - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Land Resources Survey
Talle 15      - NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Agro-Economic Survey
Table 16      - NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Crop Experiments
Table 17      - NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Evaluation Unit (Mzuzu)
Table 18      - NRDP - Preirvestment Phase
Central Services - Accounts, Road Construction and
Consultancies
Tasble 19     -  ERDP - Preinvestment Phase
Mzimba Sub-project
Table 20      - NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Thiwi/Lifidzi Sub-project
Table 21      - NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Kawinga Sub-project
Table 22      - NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Markets and Input Stores (ADMARC)
Table 23      - IEDP - Preinvestment Phase
Health
Appendix 1    - Summary of Phase I Related Recurrent Cost. Items
to be born by Borrower
Appendix 2    - Financing of Agricultural Staff in Karonga and Chitipa
Districts
Appendix 3    - Housing Construction Program
Appendix 4    - Constructions Costs of Staff Housing
9.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ID.    iovernment Cash Flow for Phase II



-3-
Annexes (Continuation)
11.    Farm Budgets
Table 1     - Crop Margins per Acre and per Man-Day, Karonga District
Table 2     - Crop Margins per Acre and per Man-Day, Chitipa District
Table 3     - Budget for a 4-Acre Karonga Rice Farm
Table 4     - Budget for a 4-Acre Karonga Dryland Farm
Table 5     - Budgets for a 4 and an 8 Acre Chitipa Farm
12.    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 1     - Farm-gate Values Used in the Economic Evaluation
Table 2     - Economic Benefits and Costs
13.    Lake Transport
Table 1     - Total One-way Capacity of the Lake Fleet
Table 2     - Analysis of Lake Fleet Capacity
Table 3     - Estimated Dry Cargo Traffic on Lake Service
Table 4     - Initial Investment Required for a Lighterage Operation
at Chipoka
Table 5     - Cost-Benefit Analysis of Chipoka Port Improvements
versus Lighterage
Table 6     - Cost-Benefit Analysis of Lake Transportation versus
Road Transportation
Table 7     - Justification for Mpasa Conversion
14.    Project Implementation Schedule
15.    Key Indicators
Chart 15653:   KRDP Organization Chart
Chart 15652:   Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
under the NRDP Preliminary Investment Phase
Map 12040:     Bank/IDA Supported Agricultural Projects



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        During the last eight years the Bank Group has made an important
contribution to the development of Malawi's smallholder agriculture through
a total of six IDA Credits for three major rural development programs. The
first, the Lilongwe Land Development Program (LLDP) in the Central Region
started in 1968/69 and is now in its third and final phase. The second is the
Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project (SVADP) in the Southern Region
which commenced in 1969/70 and is now in its second phase. The third is the
Karonga Rural Development Project (KRDP) in the Northern Region which started
in 1972/73 and is now completing its first phase.
ii.       All these programs are characterized by:
(a) the provision of infrastructure, such as rural roads, input
stores and produce markets, health facilities (both for
people and cattle), boreholes and housing and office ac-
commodation for project staff;
(b) land improvements, comprising land consolidation
(and in LLDP land registration), irrigation development
and conservation works;
(c) strengthening of extension, marketing, research and public
health staffing; and
(d) establishment of credit facilities for agricultural inputs
such as fertilizer, seeds, insecticides, work-oxen and farm
implements.
These comprehensive programs are implemented in the more densily populated
areas of the country and would, at their completion, cover about one million
people, or one quarter of the total population. While they are making a sig-
nificant contribution both to institution building and to an improved standard
of living for large numbers of people, a change of emphasis is needed to pro-
vide over a reasonable time period the remaining three quarters of Malawi's
farm population with improved production opportunities. In 1973, a Bank
agriculture sector mission therefore recommended, and the Government has decided
to adopt, a strategy which would give priority to investments with an immediate
impact on agricultural production (particularly in areas which have some infra-
structure such as roads), while other investments, which either are relatively
costly or have a lesser direct impact on production would be made in the more
distant future. Good progress has now been made in designing a National Rural
Development Program (NRDP) which would be implemented through some 40-50 sub-
projects over a period of about 20 years. The Government is expected to seek
the support of external financing agencies for future NRDP sub-projects.



- ii -
iii.      The new strategy for NRDP is already to some extent reflected in the
design of the second phase of KRDP for which Government has now requested Bank
assistance. The Project would make full use of infrastructure established
under the first project and would over four years further improve and expand
the extension, animal husbandry, land husbandry, agricultural research,
crop marketing, credit and human health services in Karonga and Chitipa
districts. This would involve recruitment of new staff and training of both
existing and new staff, construction of some additional housing, offices,
marketing and health facilities, and continued financial support for the
Project's credit fund. The Project would also construct additional boreholes,
rural roads, minor bridges, culverts and drifts in the two districts and
the Project's evaluation section would continue to monitor and analyze the
Project's progress. There would be no further irrigation development which
characterized the first Karonga project.
iv.       Moreover the Project would over two years support the preparation
of the National Rural Development Program through the strengthening of essen-
tial services in the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR),
which would administer NRDP, and through preliminary investments, mainly in
staff housing, in three selected NRDP development areas. Finally the Project
would over two years improve and expand berthing and handling facilities at
the port of Chipoka at the southern end of Lake Malawi, which were originally
provided for in the first project but not implemented because of cost overruns
in other parts nf the Lake Transport component.
v.        MANR would have overall responsibility for implementing the Project,
except for the health component, which would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Health, the construction of crop markets and input stores, which
would be the responsibility of the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation (ADMARC) and the Lake Transport component, which would be adminis-
tered by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications through Malawi
Railways Limited. The KRDP management unit established under the first
project would have specific responsibility for agricultural development in
Karonga and Chitipa districts and the 21inistry's Director of Extension and
Training, assisted by a NRDP coordinator, would be responsible for the im-
plementation of the NRDP preinvestment phase. ADMARC would continue to supply
seasonal inputs and to purchase the farmers' crop produce.
vi.       Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are
estimated at US$12.1 million. IBRD (Third Window) would finance 75% of the
costs (US$9.2 million) or all foreign exchange costs (US$6.3 million) and about
48% of the local costs. ADMARC would finance the construction<qf the input
stores and crop markets (US$0.8 million or 7% of Project costs) and Government
the remaining 18% (US$2.1 million). No taxes on duties are levied except
personal income tax on salaries which is insignificant.
vii.      Vehicles, machinery and equipment in orders exceeding US$50,000
would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Farm inputs and drugs would be procured in accordance with normal
Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. The port facilities
at Chipoka would be constructed under international competitive bidding. All



- iii -
other civil works would be constructed by force account by MANR, KRDP, the
Ministry of Works, or ADMARC.
viii.     The chief benefits of the Project would be the increased production
of rice, maize, groundnuts and cotton in Karonga and Chitipa districts. At
full development, to be reached in year 5 (1980/81) in Karonga and in year 9
(1984/85) in Chitipa, the total annual incremental production of the Phase I
and II Projects would be about 6,000 sh ton paddy, 1,450 sh ton groundnuts
(shelled), 10,400 sh ton maize and 1,300 sh ton cotton of which about two
thirds would be generated by the Phase II project. In the livestock sector
further increases in cattle production (beyond those caused by the first
project) are likely but it is not possible to quantify these benefits because
reliable data area lacking. Other non-quantifiable benefits would be generated
by investments in research, health facilities and boreholes. The improvement
to the port of Chipoka would increase its capacity, decrease ship turn around
time, increase the productivity of cargo handling and reduce cargo damage.
ix.       The internal economic return on the second Phase investments in
Karonga and Chitipa districts is estimated at 14%. The major risks facing
the Project are that adoption rates of improved crop husbandry methods and
the increases of crop yields would be lower than forecast; a 10% reduction of
the benefits would reduce the rate of return to 8%. As a result of the
Project a typical farmer cultivating 4 acres in Karonga's rainfed rice area
would increase his annual income from crops from 14K 166 (US$184) to MK 214
(US$238); a 4 acre dryland crop farmer in Karonga would increase his income
from MK 64 (US$71) to MK 115 (US$128) and a 4 acre farmer in Chitipa would
increase his annual income from crops from M4K 72 (US$80) to MK 99 (US$110).
Farmers in Chitipa who would use work oxen for land preparation are expected
to double the cultivated area and to increase their annual income from crops
to MK 188 (US$209). Ultimately a total of about 14,400 farm households would
increase their income from crops as a result of the Phase I and II Karonga
Projects. The internal rate of return of the Lake Transport component is 18%.
No economic rate of return can yet be calculated on the pre-investments under
the NRDP component during the first two Project years. Appropriate proportions
of these pre-investments would be included in the economic evaluation of the
first full-fledged NRDP project which is scheduled to be appraised in late 1977.
The aggregate internal rate of return of the whole Project is estimated at 16%.
x.        Since 1964 Malawi has received thirteen IDA Credits totalling
US$96.8 million. Apart from the six Credits for rural development projects
Credits have been extended for road development and engineering, power, educa-
tion and for transport engineering and services connected with a wood and pulp
project. Project implementation has generally been satisfactory although cost
overruns have occurred in the last two years. The first Karonga project had a
slow start, because of initial staffing problems, and some of the original
targets, particularly for irrigation development, were reduced. The project
is now progressing satisfactorily but because of cost overruns, mainly in the
construction sector, the project period was reduced from five to four years.
xi.       The Project is suitable for an IBRD (Third Window) loan of US$9.2
million.






MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Karonga Rural Development Project (KRDP), which commenced in
1972/73 in the Northern Region and is now completing its first phase, forms
part of the third agricultural development program financed by IDA in Malawi.
KRDP was preceded by two similar programs which were designed to assist the
country's small farmers. The Lilongwe Land Develoment Program (LLDP) in the
Central Region was the first (1968/69) and is now in its third and final
phase. The Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project (SVADP) in the
Southern Region which followed in 1969/70 is now in its second phase. A
fourth major project, the Central Region Lakeshore Development Project (CRLDP)
was assisted by the Federal Republic of Germany.
1.02      All these programs are characterized by:
(a)  the provision of infrastructure, such as rural roads, input
stores and produce markets, health facilities (both for
people and cattle), boreholes and housing and office ac-
commodation for project staff;
(b)  land improvements, comprising land consolidation
(and in LLDP land registration), irrigation development
and conservation works;
(c)  strengthening of extension, marketing, research and public
health staffing; and
(d)  establishment of credit facilities for agricultural inputs
such as fertilizer, seeds insecticides, work-oxen and farm
implements.
These comprehensive programs are implemented in the more densily populated
areas of the country and would, at their completion, cover about one million
people, or one quarter of the total population. While they are making a
significant contribution both to institution building and to an improved
standards of living for large numbers of people, a change of emphasis is
needed to provide over a reasonable time period the remaining three quarters
of Malawi's farm population with improved production opportunities. In
1973, a Bank agriculture sector mission therefore recommended, and the Govern-
ment has decided to adopt, a strategy which would give priority to investments
with an immediate impact on agricultural production (particularly in areas
which have some infrastructure such as roads) while other investments, which
either are relatively costly or have a lesser direct impact on production
would be made in the more distant future. Good progress has now been made in
designing a National Rural Development Program (NRDP) which would be implemen-
ted through some 40-50 sub-projects over a period of about 20 years. The
Government is expected to seek the support of external financing agencies for
future NRDP sub-projects.



1.03      The new strategy is already to some extent reflected in the design of
the second phase of KRDP, which would be enlarged to include the sparsely
populated Chitipa district, and for which Government has now requested Bank
assistance. The main emphasis would be given to strengthening of extension
and farmer services, including agricultural credit. The Project would make
full use of existing infrastructure, and investments in additional infrastruc-
ture, mainly in Chitipa district, would be restricted to the necessary minimum.
There would be a significant reduction in the emphasis on land consolidation
and there would be no further irrigation development which characterized the
first Karonga project. The Government also requested financing of a preli-
minary investment phase of NRDP to prepare the ground for a full-fledged NRDP
project scheduled to commence in 1978. A third component of the Project is the
improvement and expansion of berthing and handling facilities at the port of
Chipoka at the southern end of Lake Malawi, originally provided for in the
first phase of KRDP but not implemented because of cost overruns in other
parts of the Lake Transport component.
1.04      Some of Government's original proposals were modified in the course
of the appraisal. No convincing evidence could be found to justify major
investments for the improvement of Malawi's smallholder coffee as was re-
quested and it was agreed instead to include a provision for a special study
to determine the potential for future coffee development. The Government
withdrew a request for fishery investigations in the northern part of Lake
Malawi when it became clear thbat this component could be included in a UNDP
financed fisheries project. The scope of the proposed NRDP preliminary
investment phase was reduced in order to allow more time to establish the
necessary institutional framework and to collect and analyze essential data on
which specific development proposals are to be based.
1.05      Since 1964 Malawi has received thirteen IDA credits totalling
US$96.8 million. Apart from six credits for rural development projects -
three for Lilongwe, two for the Lower Shire and one for Karonga - other
credits have been extended for road development and engineering, power, educa-
tion and for transport engineering and services connected with a wood and pulp
project. Project implementation has generally been satisfactory, although
cost overruns have occurred in the last two years. Owing to initial staffing
problems, the first phase of KRDP had a slow start but is now progressing
satisfactorily. Some of the original targets of the project, particularly
with regard to irrigation development, have been reduced. Because of cost
overruns, mainly in the construction sector, the project period was reduced
from five to four years. These and other aspects are discussed in Chapter II.
1.06      The proposed Project was prepared by the Government with assistance
from the IBRD Regional Mission in Eastern Africa.  This report is based on the
findings of an appraisal mission composed of 'Messrs. H. van Voorthuizen and
K. Niemann (IBRD), P. Reid and G. Kerkhoven (Consultants), and A. Goala (ADB),
which visited Malawi in October/November 1975; Mlessrs. K. Krishna and J.
Russell (IBRD) assisted the mission during the field appraisal. The Lake
Transport proposals were appraised by MIessrs. D. Raymond, who visited Malawi
Ln February 1976, and J-0 Fraisse (IBRD).



II. BACKGROUtID
A. General
2.01      Malawi, a landlocked country in southeast Africa, is bordered on the
south by Mozambique, on the northwest by Zambia and on the northeast by Tanza-
nia. It has a total land area of about 36,000 square miles, and the current
population, estimated at 4.8 million, is increasing at about 2.6% per annum.
About 90% of the population lives in rural areas, but the urban population is
now estimated to be increasing at twice the rate of the rural popu-
lation.
2.02      Between 1965 and 1975 Malawi's gross domestic product (GDP) grew, in
real terms, by an average of 7.3% per year to reach an estimated MK 668 mil-
lion (US$775 million), at current prices, in 1975. Per capita income was
US$110 in 1973 (1975 World Bank Atlas). Whereas the Government has received
external support for its recurrent budget for many years, it has since 1972/73
financed recurrent expenditures entirely out of domestic revenues. Develop-
ment expenditures, however, are expected to be heavily dependent on foreign
sources of finance.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture remains the most important sector of the Malawi economy
and employs about 90% of the population. Other sectors have, however, been
growing fast in the last few years and agriculture's contribution to GDP
declined from about 50% in 1971-72 to about 45% in 1974/75. The real annual
growth of the agricultural sector ranged between 2 and 4% during the three
year period 1972/73-1974/75. In 1974 agriculture accounted for 92% of the
total domestic export earnings. The main export crop is tobacco (43% of total
1974 domestic export earnings), while tea (19%), sugar (10%), groundnuts (6%),
and other crops (14%), accounted for the balance. Smallholder agricultural
production had a 35% share in the total domestic export earnings and estates
57%. The export value in current terms of smallholder crops (mainly ground-
nuts, rice, fire-cured tobacco, cotton, pulses and maize) has grown from MK
12.2 million in 1964 to MK 31.5 million in 1974 though with considerable
annual fluctuations.
2.04      Farm holdings are generally small (averaging about 3.5 acres), and
their size is dictated in part by the scarcity of additional cultivable land
and by the size of the family. Average population density is 138 per square
mile but is two times as high in the most productive areas of the Central and
Southern Regions. Over the past decade increased food requirements have been
met mostly through an expansion of cultivated area. This in turn has meant
that land more susceptible to erosion has been cropped, and fallow periods
have been reduced. In view of the current need to maintain soil fertility and
to reduce pressure on land, the emphasis of agricultural policy is now on
increased productivity.



- 4 -
2.05      Maize is by far the most important smallholder crop, and is grown on
80% of all cultivated land; other important food crops are pulses, groundnuts
and cassava, and, to a lesser extent, rice, sorghum and wheat. The sharp
fertilizer price increase during the last two years was a serious setback for
the ongoing efforts to increase agricultural production.
2.06      Only about 10% of rural families own cattle.  The total number within
Malawi is estimated at about 600,000 head in 1974, of which about 180,000 are
in the Northern Region. The offtake rate is about 9%. The Department of Ani-
mal Health in the Ministry of Agriculture aims to expand livestock production
through the introduction of more productive cattle breeds, through artificial
insemination and selective breeding to upgrade the local Zebu cattle, and
through a disease control program aimed at the eradication of Foot and Mouth
Disease, East Coast Fever and Tuberculosis.
C.   Agricultural Services
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is prima-
rily responsible for the provision of services to the agricultural sector. It
operates through five departments: Extension and Training, Animal Health,
Fisheries, Research, and Technical Services. The Mlinistry is also responsible
for the four major agricultural development projects. Almost all organized
smallholder credit in Malawi is provided through these projects.
2.08      The Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ARMARC) is the
most important institution involved in the marketing of smallholder produce.
ADMARC buys, stores, processes and markets (both locally and abroad) all market-
able cotton and tobacco grown in Mlalawi and is also empowered to purchase all
produce grown on customary land; for the latter ADMARC views itself only as a
residual buyer, purchasing only that output which farmers choose to market
through it. Significant amounts of smallholder produce are either sold to
private traders or bartered among the farmers themselves. In addition ADMARC
supplies inputs, such as fertilizer, seed, and agricultural equipment to small-
holders. Produce prices for most crops are announced each year before the
start of the planting season by ADMARC with the approval of the Mfinister of
Agriculture. In the recent years ADMARC has accumulated substantial crop
marketing surpluses particularly from trading in tobacco, cotton and ground-
nuts and these have been applied to a variety of development projects. ADMIARC
also devotes part of its surplus to a price-equalization reserve to stabilize
producer prices, and maintains a small food reserve stock. ADMIARC is the
majority shareholder of, and effectively controls, the National Oil Industries
Limited (NOIL) which owns and operates five rice mills and an oil expression
plant for cotton seed (Annex 4).
2.09      Most of MIANR's technical and field staff receives its formal agri-
cultural training either at Bunda Agricultural College,which is part of the
University of Malawi, or at Colby College of Agriculture, which is under MANIR.
Bunda offers a three year course leading to a Diploma in Agriculture and a
four year course which leads to a Bachelor of Science in Agriculture degree.
USAID has recently agreed to finance an expansion of Bunda's facilities.



- 5 -
Colby College offers a two-year course, which leads to a certificate in
agriculture. Other institutions involved in training agricultural staff
include the M'ikolongwe School and Livestock Improvement Center which offers a
two year course for veterinary assistants, the Thuchila Farm Institute, the
main training center for women which has a one-year course for Farm Home
Instructresses, and also schools for fisheries and forestry assistants. MANR
would like to concentrate the various courses for field level workers in one
location and for some years has been contemplating the establishment of a
Natural Resources College at the site of the present Colby College near
Lilongwe. The proposals are now finalized for submission to potential finan-
cing agencies. The Ministry also organizes in-service training programs for
extension staff and conducts farmer training courses in about 20 residential
and 70 day centers (Annex 6).
D.   Karonga Rural Development Project, Phase I
2.10      KRDP, Phase I, was appraised in April 1971 and consisted of a first
five-year agricultural development program in the Karonga area, including im-
provement to health services and transportation. In its original request Gov-
ernment attached much importance to the construction of irrigated rice schemes
following the establishment of two irrigation schemes at Hara and Wovwe in the
southern part of the Karonga Lake shore. Because of inadequate hydrological
data the Government's target of developing 9,000 acres irrigated rice was re-
duced during appraisal to 1,500 acres in two schemes at Lufira and Wovwe and
the development of 6,000 acres of rainfed rice schemes was provided for instead.
During the project's implementation, which because of initial staffing problems
started only in the second half of 1972, it became clear that the soil perme-
ability in the 1,000 acre scheme at Lufira was much higher than anticipated and
concrete lining of the main canals became necessary. The scheme is expected
to be completed in the course of 1976, two years behind schedule. Because of
the resulting heavy cost overruns at Lufira the development of the 500 acre
irrigation scheme at Wovwe has been omitted from the project and no further
irrigation develoment is comtemplated at this time.
2.11      The improvement of rainfed rice cultivation is progressing satisfac-
torily. Simple water control bunds, demarcated by the project's land husban-
dry section and constructed by the farmers themselves, would be completed on
about 5,000 acres by the end of the revised four year project. This is about
1,000 acres short of the original target, mainly because of the late project
start. Some 2,500 farmers growing rainfed rice received 215 m ton fertilizer
and 150 sh ton improved seeds on credit in 1975; the number of farmers is
about one-third above, and the amount of fertilizer some 20% below the ap-
praisal estimates.
2.12      An estimated 8,000 acres of dryland crop land are expected to be
demarcated and consolidated by 1976 which compares with 7,800 acres estimated
at the appraisal of the first project. Actual improvements of cultivation
techniques of maize, cotton and groundnuts are, however, lagging behind
appraisal estimates. Fertilizers, improved seeds and insecticides for about
2,200 acres were distributed on credit in 1975 to about 1,500 dryland crop



-6-
farmers, whereas the appraisal estimate provided for 5,400 acres by 1,200
farmers. It was erroneously assumed that land consolidation would be fol-
lowed immediately by improved cultivation techniques on the entire con-
solidated area and that no improvements would be introduced on non-con-
solidated land. In fact, however, adoption of improved techniques went
much slower, partly because of the high fertilizer costs, while on the other
hand many farmers outside the consolidated schemes also started using small
amounts of inputs. In contrast with the original appraisal estimate it is now
expected that farmers will continue to cultivate about one quarter of the land
with cassava and that improved husbandry of maize, cotton and groundnuts will
increase over two years, following demarcation, to about 75% of the land
(Annex 1).
2.13      The main objective of the livestock develoment program of the
first project was to improve cattle health through the construction of dipping
tanks and the provision of vaccines and drugs. This has been carried out
satisfactorily and only two additional tanks need to be built under this
Project. The first project also provided for four new cattle markets (two in
Karonga and two in Chitipa) but only the market built in southern Chitipa
turned out to be successful. The other three cattle markets attracted little
interest as farmers preferred to sell their cattle locally or across the
border to Zambia or Tanzania (Annnex 2).
2.14      The construction of staff housing, office accommodation, roads
and health facilities has been proceeding satisfactorily and targets will
be reached by the end of the project. The project also provided for the
construction or improvement of two terminals comprising berthing facilities
and associated structures and for a self-propelled vessel for the Lake Trans-
port Service. Because of heavy cost overruns during the construction of the
Chilumba terminal in Karonga district no funds were left for the improvement
of facilities at Chipoka on the southern end of Lake Malawi. Since this
terminal is of great importance for all Lake traffic to and from the north,
including Karonga, its construction has now been included in this Project.
The self-propelled vessel is assembled and is undergoing sea trials at Monkey
Bay (Annex 13).
2.15      Despite the late start and the setbacks during implementation the
first project is now performing satisfactorily. Most physical targets will
be met by the end of the project and farmers participation is better than
anticipated. A first survey of crop yields, conducted by the project's eva-
luation unit during the 1974/75 season, suggests substantial production in-
creases as a result of the project activities (details are at Annex 1). The
experiences gained so far have led to a better understanding of-the feasibi-
lity and timing of various project activities and the lessons drawn from
these experiences have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
second Project.



III. THE PROJECT AREA
Karonga and Chitipa Districts (Annex 1)
3.01      Land and crop development under the first Phase of KRDP were limited
to the Lake shore area in Karonga district while the livestock develop-
ment program was implemented in both the Karonga and Chitipa administrative
districts. Under the proposed Project agricultural and other developments
would also be extended to the parts of Karonga and Chitipa districts which were
not covered by the first project. The two districts are located in the extreme
north of Malawi and are bordered by Zambia to the west, Tanzania to the
north and Lake Malawi to the east (World Bank Map 12040). The area involved
covers about 2,950 square miles but physical conditions vary widely.
3.02       Communications.  Communications with other parts of Malawi are
difficult because of the remote location of the Project area.  The construc-
tion of the Chilumba-Chiweta road, which connects Karonga town with the south
of Malawi and upgrading of the Chitipa-Chisenga-Nthalire road, which connects
Chitipa with Rumphi, has improved the situation somewhat.  The first 15 miles
of the Karonga-Chitipa road continue to pose problems during the wet season;
upgrading of this road to all-weather conditions has been considered but found
too costly because of the very instable black-cotton soil. During the dry
season there are no problems and transport of heavy goods, such as con-
struction materials, fertilizers and crop produce should be carefully planned
to avoid wet season disruptures. The construction under the first project of
the Chilumba terminal in south Karonga in addition to the existing port at
Kambwe, near Karonga town, has improved the efficiency of the Lake Malawi
Service for Karonga district.
3.03      Land and Population.  The Lake shore area in Karonga district is
about 80 miles long and 10 - 20 miles wide and has a population of about
90,000 persons. The altitude gradually increases from about 1,500 to about
2,000 feet. Annual rainfall ranges from an average of about 100 inches in the
north to 30 inches in the center and 60 inches in the south, most of it falling
between November and May. In the wet northern part soils consist mainly of
heavy clay; rainfed rice predominates on mostly impermeable clays and some
subsistence maize and cassava are grown on better drained fields. In the dryer
central and southern parts soils are lighter and the main crops are cassava,
groundnuts, cotton and maize. The Lake shore area is cut across by the beds
of numerous wet season rivers flowing down from the escarpment. Dry season
river flow is limited to the wet north and the most southern part of the Lake
shore but there is little opportunity for economic storage of the wildly
fluctuating river flows. Besides, the streams carry large amounts of silt
which is further aggravated by denudation of the catchment areas. The pros-
pects for irrigation development are therefore not so good as they were
thought to be a few years ago.
3.04      The remaining part of Karonga consists of a steep escarpment which
stretches along the entire western border of the district. Rainfall averages



-8-
up to 60 inches and the natural vegetation is mainly Brachystegia woodland.
A small number of about 5,000 persons make their living on the escarpment,
mainly by practicing slash and burn techniques which reduce the amount of
natural vegetation.
3.05      Towards the northwest the escarpment extends into the Misuku hills
in Chitipa district where altitudes reach more than 6,000 feet. Some 16,500
persons live in this area; they grow maize, millet, cassava, beans, peas and
sweet potatoes for subsistence, and about one third of them grow some arabica
coffee for cash. The annual rainfall varies between 40 and 60 inches and
permanent cropping is more commonly practiced than in the Karonga part of the
escarpment.
3.06      The largest part of Chitipa district consists of a sandy plateau
along the Zambian border and large marshy clay valleys (locally called dambos)
between the plateau and the hills in the northeast and south. Only about
56,000 persons were living in the Chitipa plains in 1974 and there exists
considerable room for expansion. The annual rainfall averages 45 inches,
fairly evenly spread over the period December to April, and reaches up to 60
inches in the most northern part of the district. The main crops are maize,
groundnuts, beans, cassava, sorghum, sweet potatoes and millet, which are
mostly grown for subsistence.
3.07      Cattle.  In 1975, the cattle populations were estimated at 32,000
for Chitipa and 38,000 for Karonga, a total of 70,000 head. It is believed
that productivity has improved recently following the animal health facili-
ties provided by the first project but it it is very difficult to make a
precise assessment because of continuous cattle movements between Malawi,
Zambia and Tanzania. The official statistics indicate a zero growth rate bet-
ween 1965 and 1973 and an annual offtake of about 11.5% for the two districts.
National Rural Development Program (Annex 7)
3.08      The Project would provide for preliminary investments for NRDP in
three development areas in different parts of Malawi. Criteria for the selec-
tion of the three NRDP sub-project areas include amongst others: high, but
largely undeveloped agricultural potential; considerable initiative by the
local farming community; ready accessibility of the area and some existing
infrastructure; and maintaining an even balance in providing development
assistance to all Regions. The selected areas are North-West Mzimba in
the Northern Region, Thiwi-Lifidzi in the Central Region and Kawinga in the
Southern Region.
3.09      The N.W. Mzimba sub-project is located west of the mainroad Mzimba-
Rumphi and has a gross area of 670 square miles with an estimated population
of 51,180 or 75 persons per square mile. Maize is the staple food crop and
other food crops include sorghum, groundnuts, beans and cowpeas. About 40%
of the farmers also grow tobacco. The second sub-project, Thiwi-Lifidzi, is
located between the Mozambique border and the Lilongwe Land Development Pro-
gram area. The gross area is 380 square miles with a population of about
130,000 or 340 per square mile, about twice the national average. As a
result the area is more intensively cultivated than the other two proposed



sub-projects and all arable land is thought to be under cultivation. Major
crops include maize, groundnuts, beans and tobacco. The third NRDP sub-
proiect, Kawinga, is located north of Lake Chilwa on Malawi's eastern bor-
der with Mtozambique. The gross area is 740 square miles and its population is
estimated at about 100,000 persons or 140 per square mile. It comprises two
ecologically different areas: a low rainfall maize, groundnut, cotton,
tobacco economy in the north and a wetter area in the south around Lake Chilwa
where rice, cassava and cattle raising are the main activities.
3.10      All three development areas have a good potential for increased
production, mainly through more intensive cultivation methods and in some
parts also through opening up of unused land (N. W. Mzimba, southern Kawinga).
In all areas there has been a favorable response by the farmers towards pilot
development activities - especially in Mzimba and Thiwi-Lifidzi. Additional
survey work and farm-scale testing of possible improvements is needed to
prepare sound crop and livestock development plans.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01.     The Project would, over four years (1976/77 - 1979/80), continue to
support the development of the agricultural production potential of Karonga
and Chitipa districts mainly through further strengthening of extension ser-
vices and the distribution of farm inputs on credit, and would also make some
further improvements to the social infrastructure of the two districts. The
Project would also, over two years, support the preparation of the National
Rural Development Program through strengthening of essential services in MANR
and through preliminary investments, mainly in staff housing, in three select-
ed development areas. Finally the Project would improve the facilities of the
'lalawi Lake Service through the rehabilitation of the Chipoka terminal. The
Project would specifically provide for:
Karonga and Chitipa Districts
(a) continuation and expansion of extension, animal husbandry
and land husbandry services, and construction of housing
for new staff and training and office facilities;
(b)  continuation and expansion of seasonal and medium term
credit for farm inputs;
(c) continuation and expansion of agricultural and hydro-
logical research;
(d)  construction of additional boreholes and construction
or improvement of rural roads, minor bridges, culverts
and drifts;



- 10 -
(e) construction of additional markets, input stores and
small input sheds;
(f) expansion and improvement of health facilities;
(g) continued Project evaluation;
National Rural Development Program
(h) strengthening of MANR's land husbandry, agro-economic survey,
research, evaluation and accounting services and establish-
ment of a road construction unit;
(i) construction of staff housing, office facilities and stores
and other necessary infrastructure, followed by the recruit-
ment of additional extension, land husbandry and research
staff in the development areas N.W. Mzimba, Thiwi-Lifidzi and
Kawinga; and
Lake Transport
(j) repair and expansion of berthing and associated facilities
at the Chipoka Lake terminal.
In Karonga and Chitipa districts the Project would be implemented by the
existing KRDP management unit under the general direction of MANR. The
Director of Extension and Training in MANR would be responsible for the
NRDP component, the Ministry of Health for the health component, ADMARC for
the construction of crop markets and input stores, and Malawi Railways
Limited, which owns and operates the Lake Service, would carry out the im-
provements to the Chipoka Lake terminal.
B. Detailed Features
Karonga and Chitipa Districts
4.02      Crop Development Targets (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2).  Under the
Project improved crop husbandry techniques, including the use of fertilizer,
improved seeds and insecticides, are expected to be practiced in the following
areas at subsequent stages of development (acres):



- 11 -
Before Start of   End of Phase II  At Full Development
Phase II Project        Project
(Year 0)           (Year 4)       Year           Acres
Karonga
Rainfed Rice            5,000             11,000          4            11,000
Dryland Crops           3,375              9,375          5            10,500
Chitipa
Handcultivated Crops      900              6,300          9            16,200
Oxen-cultivated Crops    700               2,800          9             6,400
4.03      Extension and Training (Annexes 1 and 6).  Over the next 20 years
the Government intends to increase the number of extension workers in the
country as a whole to the level of one field assistant for about 500 farmers.
The Project would provide for a gradual increase in Karonga and Chitipa from
the present level of one field assistant for every 850 farmers to one for
about every 575-600 farmers by the end of the Project. The number of develop-
ment assistants, working as demonstrators in cotton and rice (Karonga),
coffee (Chitipa) and for the training of work-oxen (both districts), would
also be increased. The following summarizes the existing and future staffing:
Karonga                     Chitipa
Prior to          End of                 End of
Phase I   1975   Phase II    1975    Phase II
Farm Families                  19,500   21,000  22,750       17,000   18,500
Senior Extension Staff              7        14       18          4        13
Field Assistants                   15        25       38         20        32
Development Assistants             20        30       40           9       13
Ratio Farm Families/
Field Assistants             1,200/1    850/1   600/1        850/1    575/1
Overall performance of existing extension staff in Karonga and Chitipa is
generally good. Two existing rural day training centers for farmers in Chitipa
would be upgraded to residential training centers and one new day training
center would be built. Karonga already has one residential training center
and two day centers and does not need additional facilities. Besides pro-
viding farmer training courses--for both men and women--the centers would
also be used for in-service courses for staff. An additional extension aid
van would also be acquired and operated by the Project.



- 12 -
4.04      Animal Husbandry and Veterinarv Services (Annex 2).  Various
activities started under the first project will continue and be expanded.
Two nore dip tanks would be built in addition to the 19 old ones and the
22 constructed under Phase I. The Project would make full use of the
existing livestock center in Karonga and the new center, presently under
construction in Chitipa under the first project, to demonstrate the
advantages of improved breeding stock and better animal nutrition. Before
the start of the first phase project there were 25 animal husbandry and
veterinary assistants in the two districts and an additional 12 posts
were created during the first project; no further increases are provided
for under this Project.
4.05      Land Husbandry Services  (Annex 1).  The land husbandry section
would continue to assist the farmers with the layout or realignment of
water control bunds in Karonga's rainfed rice areas and with the layout
of farms based on catchments, both in Karonga and Chitipa. The section
would also mark road alignments for people wishing to construct feeder
roads on a self-help basis. During the last two years of the Project
the staff of the land husbandry section would be transferred to the
extension services which would continue to provide routine land husbandry
services where needed.
4.06      Credit (Annex 3).  The Project would provide for an expansion
of the operations of the credit fund which started in 1972/73 in Karonga
and in 1975/76 in Chitipa. The incremental volumes of seasonal farm inputs
to be supplied on credit under this Project are estimated at 1,225 m ton
fertilizer, 155 sh ton maize, groundnut and rice seeds and insecticides
for 2,000 acres of cotton. Medium-term credit would be provided for about
425 pairs of work-oxen, 340 ox-carts, 750 ploughs and chains, 265 ridgers
and 600 cotton sprayers. Depending on the conclusions and recommendations
of the proposed coffee study (paragraph 4.13 and Annex 1) inputs may also
be made available on credit for the improvement of coffee growing in Chitipa
district. The organizational aspects of credit are discussed in Chapter V.
4.07      Research (Annex 1).  The Project would provide for the continuation
of crop research at the existing station near Karonga town and at the new
station presently under construction at Lufita in Chitipa. Research programs
would be determined in consultation with other field sections of the Project
and more emphasis would be given to Project specific research subjects.
In close colaboration with the extension services a program of farm scale
tests of possible improvements for each of the main crops would be initiated
in all extension sectors. The hydrology section would continue to collect
relevant data on rainfall, streamflows, evapo-transpiration, and sub-surface
water flows, which would be helpful in solving short-term problems such
as design changes for bridges and culverts, sowing dates for crops, and the
climatic suitability of an area for a new crop. Information, thus acquired,
is also necessary for a better understanding of the irrigation potential
of the Karonga Lake shore plain.
4.08      Boreholes.  Village water supplies would be improved in areas where
adequate sources are lacking, by drilling 40 boreholes in each district, so
increasing the number of boreholes in Karonga from 94 to 134 and in Chitipa
from 27 to 67. Some of the boreholes in Chitipa would be drilled in areas
*which, although fertile, are at present not cultivated due to water shortage.



- 13 -
4.09      Staff Houses, Offices and Roads.  The Project would provide for the
construction of a total of 74 houses for new staff, of which 15 would be
in Karonga (in addition to the 110 houses built under the first project) and
59 in Chitipa. Office accommodation would also be built. The standards
of construction adopted for the first project were higher than necessary and
experience in the Lilongwe Land Development Program (LLDP) has shown that
adequate housing can be provided by adopting simpler designs. At negotiations
it was agreed that the Government would ensure that the design standards would
be satisfactory to the Bank. The Project would also provide for upgrading of
about 90 miles of feeder roads, of which 80 miles in Chitipa. Other essential
roads would be improved so as to provide all weather access to the input
stores. Some 70 bridges, 20 culverts and two drifts would also be constructed
or repaired.
4.10      Crop Markets and Input Stores.  ADMARC would construct and operate
six crop produce market complexes in Karonga, in addition to the three
existing ones, and three in Chitipa where at present only one such facility
exists. Each complex would consist of a 280-ton input store, a market build-
ing and staff housing. ADMARC would also construct eight small input sheds
in isolated areas of Chitipa district.
4.11      Health Facilities (Annex 5).  The Project would provide for some
further essential improvements to the health services in Karonga and Chitipa.
These include the construction of three new maternity wards in Karonga, two
maternity wards and seven health posts in Chitipa, staff houses and some
boreholes in areas where fresh water is lacking. The Project would also
finance the operating costs of the new facilities, which include personal
emoluments, drugs and transport.
4.12      Evaluation.  Continued support would be provided for the evaluation
unit established under the first project and which carried out a first program
of field surveys during the 1974/75 season. The unit would collect data
partly through field surveys, particularly on crop acreages and production,
and partly from other sections of the Project, for example on inputs issued
to the farmers and marketing of crops. The Government has recently established
a position for an evaluation officer in the economic planning section of MANR
who would coordinate the activities of the evaluation units operating in the
various agricultural development projects to ensure that similar methodologies
are adopted throughout the country.
National Rural Development Program (Annex 7)
4.13      Central Services of MANR.  In order to increase the Mlinistry's
capacity to prepare and implement future investment phases of NRDP this
Project would over two years provide for an expansion of the central services
listed below.
(i) The land husbandry section would be responsible for land
resource inventories in proposed NRDP sub-projects. The unit
would be strengthened by three additional staff with supporting
facilities including housing, and the Project would also



- 14 -
finance the costs of another three staff, initially provided for
a period of one year under the third phase of LLDP.
(ii) The agro-economic survey unit would collect demographic,
economic and agricultural baseline data in the proposed sub-
projects and would be strengthened by three additional staff
and supporting facilities. The Project would continue to
finance another four staff initially provided under the
third phase of LLDP.
(iii) Six new agricultural research staff would be provided to
conduct crop experiments in six future NRDP sub-projects
in order to determine optimum input packages.
(iv) A new evaluation unit, comprising 15 staff with supporting
facilities, would initially be established in MANR's existing
Regional headquarters at Mzuzu in the Northern Region. The
unit would be responsible for monitoring progress under the
Mzimba NRDP sub-project and would probably merge with the
existing KRDP unit at a later stage.
(v) The accounting services of MANR's headquarters would be
strengthened by 16 new staff of which nine would eventually
be transferred to the N4RDP sub-projects following training
at headquarters. The Project would also provide for continued
financing of a financial controller, presently an ADS staff
member whose costs are till now shared by the three IDA financed
agricultural projects (LLDP, SVADP and KRDP), and for a systems
analyst/programmer to computerize farm credit accounts.
(vi) In the absence of a rural road construction unit in the
Ministry of Works, MANR would also establish and operate
a road construction unit similar to the units established
in the major ongoing projects. The unit would be responsible
for the construction and upgrading of rural roads in NRDP sub-
projects. The Project would provide for the initial equipment
and for a specialist to manage the unit.
(vii) Finally, funds would be provided for ad hoc consultancies
on special subjects which are relevant for the implementation
of the Project. This would include a study of the develop-
ment potential of Malawi's smallholder coffee industry by a
coffee agronomist and an economist, and may also include
specialist advice on the organization of a credit institution,
manpower planning and the preparation of detailed NRDP sub-
projects. At negotiations it was agreed that the Government
would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.14      NRDP Sub-projects.  The Project would over two years provide
for preliminary investments in throe development areas which the Government
lhas selected as .he first NRDP sub-projects.  In North-Wiest Mzimba (Northern



- 15 -
Region) and in Thiwi-Lifidzi (Central Region) respectively 19 and 33 houses
for additional extension, land husbandry and agricultural research staff
would be constructed. During the first year the Project would provide for
a technical officer for each area, who would be responsible for Project
implementation, while other staff would be recruited in the second Project
year. The Project would further provide for the construction of office
accomodation, rural training centers (one in Mzimba, two in Thiwi-Lifidzi),
boreholes (20 in Itzimba, 16 in Thiwi-Lifidzi), input stores (three in Mzimba,
two in Thiwi-Lifidzi), two bridges and some additional health facilities in
lizimba, and about 50 miles of roads in Thiwi-Lifidzi. The distribution of farm
inputs on credit, such as fertilizer, seeds and tools, would commence on a
small scale during the second Project year. Developments in a third area,
Kawinga (Southern Region), would follow the same pattern but commence a year
later than in the other two areas. The Project would provide for the construc-
tion of 28 staff houses, office accommodation, two training centers, ten
boreholes, and three input stores, and for the recruitment of a chief tech-
nical officer during the second Project year. Simultaneously land resource and
agro-economic surveys would be completed or updated in each of the three dev-
elopment areas and it was agreed during negotiations that detailed development
plans would be submitted to the Bank before September 30, 1977.
4.15      Since the level of staffing for the NRDP preliminary investment
phase, provided for under this Project, is essential for a successful pre-
paration and implementation of NRDP, Government agreed at negotiations that
no significant variations of staff positions would be made without consulting
the Bank. No disbursements against the NRDP component would be made before
the additional staff positions, as specified in Annex 7, Appendix 1, are
established.
4.16      Lake Transport (Annex 13).  The rehabilitation and expansion of
the Malawi Lake Service is necessary for the accommodation of the increased
traffic resulting from this Project and, in addition, other existing traffic
demands. Under the first project, a jetty and associated structures were
constructed at Chilumba in Karonga district but similar facilities at the
existing southern terminal, Chipoka, which were also included in the earlier
project, could not be constructed with the funds available. The need for
the improvements to the Chipoka terminal is now more pressing than four
years ago and the Project would therefore provide for the construction of
berthing facilities and associated structures, including cargo handling
equipment, at Chipoka. The Project also provides for the refitting of the
motor vessel Mpasa to increase its bulk petroleum carrying capacity. The
failure of the Lake Service to meet its operating costs, even excluding
depreciation, suggests that tariffs are too low. To avoid a cross-subsidiza-
tion of the Lake Service by the Railways, it was agreed at negotiations that
the Government would establish Lake Service tariffs which would generate
sufficient revenue to cover operating costs plus depreciation or debt service,
whichever is greater.
4.17      Environmental Effect.  The Project would have no adverse impact on
the environment in the areas concerned. It would improve living conditions
through the construction of potable water sources and the construction and
operation of additional public health facilities.



- 16 -
C. Project Cost Estimates (Annex 8)
4.18       Total Project cost including contingencies is estimated at MK
10.9 million (US$12.1 million) and the foreign exchange component is estimated
at 52%. Detailed cost estimates are as follows:
----- 1M  '000 --------  ----- US$ '000 ------  Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total          /
Karonga and Chitipa
Extension                417    302        719     463    336       799       42
Land Husbandry            90      53       143      100      59     159       37
Livestock                157    105        262      174    117      291       40
Construction Unit        368    368        736      409    409      818       50
Research                 119      89       208      132     99      231       43
Hydrology                 64      72       136       71     80      151       53
Mechanical 'Maintenance  47    122         169       52    136      188       72
Finance (Accounting
Services)               344    281        625     382    313       695       45
On-farm Credit            26    147        173       29    163      192       85
Evaluation               100      81       181      111     90      201       45
Manaoement Unit          148    107        255      164    199      283       42
ADMARC                   326    140        466      362    156      518       30
Health                   235    164        399      261    182      443       41
Subtotal            2,441  2,031    4,472   2,710  2,259   4,969            43
RP
Central Services HIANR  428    760    1,188         476    844   1,320        64
N.W. Mzimba              256    202        458      285    244      509       44
Thiwi-Lifidzi            248    145        393      276    161      437       37
Kawinga                  154      83       237      171      92     263       35
Subtotal            1,086  1,190    2,276   1,208  1,321   2,529           52
Lake Transport            430  1,106    1,536        478  1,229   1,707         72
Base Cost           3,957  4,327    8,284   4,396  4,809   9,205           52
Physical Contingencies  259    281          540      288    312       600       52
Price Contingencies       988  1,071    2,059   1,098  1,190   2,288            52
Project Cost      5,204  5,679   10,883   5,782  6,311  12,093            52
Costs have been estimated at April 1976 prices and include capital and in-
cremental operating costs, and the additional funds needed to operate the



- 17 -
Project's credit fund. 1/ The Project costs also include a decreasing pro-
portion of the operating costs of investments made under the first project
(e.g. staff and supporting facilities, dip tanks, livestock demonstration
center, Lufira irrigation scheme). The balance of these costs would be
financed by Government through annual budget allocations (details are at
Annex 8, Appendix 1). A physical contingency of 10% has been allowed
on the Lake Transport component and 5% on all other costs. Price con-
tingencies have been calculated at the following rates (percentages):
1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80
Vehicles, Equipment and Operating Cost          9         8         8         8
Civil Works                                    13        12        12        12
Wages and Salaries                              9         8         8         8
Since the Government is executing the Project no taxes or duties are levied
except for the taxes on local salaries which are insignificant.
D. Financing
4.19       The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
MK            US$        % of
(Million)      (Million)  Total Cost
IBRD (Third Window)                          8.3            9.2         75
ADNIARC                                      0.7            0.8           7
Government                                   1.9            2.1          18
Total                                 10.9            12.1        100
The proposed Bank Loan of US$9.2 million would be on standard Third Window
terms to Government. It would finance the foreign exchange costs (US$6.4
million) and about 48% of local costs, or 75% of total Project costs.
ADMARC's contribution would be for the construction of input stores, markets
and staff housing, and includes a proportionate share of the total provision
for contingencies.
E. Procurement
4.20       During negotiations it was agreed that vehicles, machinery and
equipment (US$1.2 million) in orders exceeding US$50,000 would be procured by
1/   Since the farmers would start to make small down-payments on both recurrent
and incremental seasonal inputs the additional funds needed would represent
only about 60% of the total value of the incremental inputs (Annex 3).



- 18 -
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines; orders
would be bulked whenever possible. Procurement of farm inputs and drugs
(US$0.3 million) would be subject to competitive bidding advertised locally,
since foreign suppliers are well represented in the country. Construction of
staff housing, offices, roads and bridges, and health facilities in Karonga
and Chitipa districts (US$1.0 million) would be undertaken by force account by
the Ministry of Works and by KRDP's construction unit. Boreholes (US$0.3 mil-
lion) would be constructed by the Geological Survey Department of MANR; markets
and input stores (US$0.6 million) by ADMARC. Civil works under the NRDP com-
ponent (US$0.7 million) would be undertaken by force account by the Ministry
of Works. The construction and upgrading of rural roads (US$0.2 million) under
the NRDP component would be undertaken by force account by MANR. The contract
for construction of the port facilities at Chipoka (US$1.4 million) would be
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines; a
margin of preference of 7-1/2% would be granted to domestic contractors.
F. Disbursement
4.21      Disbursement of funds from the Loan account would be on the
following basis:
(a)  75% of total costs for civil works (other than marketing
facilities to be constructed by ADMARC);
(b)  100% of foreign exchange costs or 75% of local costs for
vehicles and equipment; and
(c)  75% of operating costs, including wages and salaries.
Details of (a), (b) and (c) are in Annexes 3, 8 and 13. Disbursement against
(a) and (b) would be fully documented. Disbursement against (c) would be made
against appropriate certificates of expenditure certified for KRDP, including
its health component, by the Project manager, and for NRDP by MANR's Director
of Extension and Training. For the health component under NRDP the Ministry
of Health would prepare claims whereas expenditures under the Lake Transport
component would be prepared by Malawi Railways. The documentation for unsup-
ported claims would be retained by the executing agency and would be available
for inspection by the Bank during the course of a supervision mission. During
negotiations it was agreed that no disbursement under the NRDP component would
be made until the condition set out in paragraph 4.15 is fulfilled. Any funds
remaining in the Loan account at the end of the Project would be reallocated
with the approval of the Bank.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.22      Accounts, which would  reflect expenditures on the various Project
components, would be kept by KRDP, IMANR, Ministry of Health, ADMARC and Malawi



- 19 -
Railways Limited. The full accounts of KRDP and ADMARC, the accounts of the
Lake Service branch of Malawi Railways Limited and the Project related accounts
of MANR and the Mlinistry of Health would be audited by independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, and would be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the end of the fiscal year. Agreement on the above was reached during
negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION ANJD MANAGEMENT
General
5.01      The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources would have overall
responsibility for implementing the Project, apart from the health component,
which would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, the construction
of crop markets and input stores, which would be the responsibility of ADMARC
and the Lake Transport component, which would be administered by the Ministry
of Transport and Communications through Malawi Railways Limited. The present
organizational structure of MANR is not geared to the changing needs associa-
ted with the future implementation of NRDP and the Government is now consider-
ing proposals for modifications (IBRD chart 15652). At present all four major
agricultural development projects (LLDP, SVADP, KRDP and CRLDP) are adminis-
tered by project management units which report to the Permanent Secretary
through the Projects Administration of MANR's Planning Unit, whereas the
remainder of the country is administered by three Regional Agricultural
Offices (Mzuzu, Lilongwe and Blantyre) which report to the Director of MANR's
Extension and Training Department. Under the proposed reorganization the
country would be progressively divided into probably ten agricultural regions,
each with its own management unit, which would report to the Director of
Extension and Training, whose responsibilities would be expanded. The manage-
ment units of the four major projects and the three existing, but strengthened,
Regional Agricultural Offices, would together constitute the first seven new-
style regional management units. The Regional Offices at Mzuzu and Blantyre
would be sub-divided at a later date.
Karonga and Chitipa
5.02      The existing KRDP Project management unit would assume responsibility
for all agricultural services in the Karonga and Chitipa districts and, pend-
ing the introduction of the new organizational structure of MANR, the
Project manager would continue to report to the Permanent Secretary through
MANR's Planning Unit. No major alterations are envisaged during Phase II in
the organizational structure of the KRDP management unit; the main change
would be the inclusion in the Project of existing MANR staff in Chitipa. The
Project would continue to be administered through five divisions, i.e. agri-
cultural services (including animal husbandry), research, construction,
mechanical maintenance and finance; the evaluation unit would continue to
monitor the Project's progress (chart IBRD 15653). Since 1975 the post of
Project manager is held by a Malawian but a number of specialist posts would



- 20 -
continue to be occupied for a period by expatriates in view of the scarcity of
qualified nationals; their main duty would be to provide in-post training for
Malawian nationals. The United Kingdom has agreed with the Government
that under the Overseas Services Aid Scheme (OSAS) seven specialists would be
made available to KRDP in 1976/77, six in 1977/78, and five in 1978/79, which
is expected to match the Project's requirements. At negotiations it was
agreed that the Government would consult the Bank on any new appointment to
the post of Project manager.
National Rural Development Program
5.03      The Director of Extension and Training in MAN1R, who is in charge of
all agricultural extension in Malawi except for the ongoing major projects,
would also be responsible for the implementation of NRDP. He would be assisted
by a coordinator who would be responsible for day-to-day management of NRDP;
he would be recruited against an existing but presently vacant post of prin-
cipal agricultural officer at headquarters. At negotiations it was agreed
that the Government would consult the Bank on appointments to this post. As
at present the Director of Extension and Training would delegate executive
responsibility to the Regional Agricultural Officers (RAO), who in turn reach
the field level staff through the District Agricultural Officers (DAO). For
each of the three NRDP sub-projects a senior technical officer (STO) level
project supervisor would be recruited, who would be responsible for all field
operations in his area and report to the DAO. NRDP would thus be implemented
through the existing, but strengthened, MANR organization rather than by a new
structure as established under the earlier projects.
5.04      A liaison committee would be established to assure proper coordina-
tion of various NRDP components and activities. The committee would be chaired
by MAUNR's Permanent Secretary, or his representative, and consist of senior
representatives of the Office of the President, the Treasury, the Ministries
of Wlorks and Supplies, Community Development and Health, ADMARC, as well as
department heads of MANR. On the field level past experience has clearly shown
that farmers groups can play an important role in matters such as purchase of
inputs, farm credit and demonstration of new techniques. The field extension
workers, supervised by a technical officer and assisted by specialist staEf
(credit, crops, animal husbandry), would therefore encourage the establishment
of farmers groups wherever possible.
5.05      The availability of qualified staff is the limiting factor for the
rate of expansion of future agricultural development activities, particularly
for NRDP. Since a clear picture of future needs and availability of staff of
various levels is lacking it was agreed during negotiations that MANR, assisted
by consultants if necessary, would undertake a thorough review of the manpower
situation during the next decade. The results would be discussed with the
Bank before June 30, 1977. It was also agreed at negotiations that the levels
of MANR's agricultural staff in Karonga and Chitipa districts would be substan-
tially as detailed in Annex 8, Appendix 2.



- 21 -
Credit Arrangements (Annex 3)
5.06      In the past, agricultural credit to smallholders has mainly been
provided by the major rural development projects through their respective
credit funds but the planned expansion of credit activities on a national
scale under NRDP has made it necessary to review both the organization of
smallholder credit and its policies. A committee in MANR is now preparing
proposals for suitable credit arrangements and is expected to complete its
assignment in the course of 1976. It is expected that the following
points would be reflected in the final proposals:
(i)  farmers would be encouraged to pay cash for seasonal
inputs, for example by allowing discounts for bulk
sales of fertilizers;
(ii) where possible, credit would be given to farmers groups,
rather than to individuals, in order to reduce the
administrative burden and to lower the costs involved;
(iii)  the credit charges for the different programs - seasonal
credit for farmers groups and for individuals and medium-
term credit for individual farmers only - would be increased
progressively to levels which would more closely reflect the
real interest and administrative costs involved; and
(iv) a system of down payments would be adopted for all types
of credit schemes.
At negotiations it was agreed that the final proposals for future credit
arrangements would be discussecl with the Bank before June 30, 1977.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND
EFFECTS ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
A. Production (Annex 1)
Yields
6.01      In Karonga some 3,000 farmers would increase their rainfed rice
production from an average 1,600 lb to about 2,400 lb per acre during the
four year Project period by using fertilizers and improved seeds and
through improved water control measures. Dryland production of maize,
groundnuts and cotton in Karonga would be increased over a seven year
period from the start of the second Phase Project by some 1,500 farmers.
Maize yields would increase from 800 lb to 2,200 lb per acre through the
use of fertilizers and composite or synthetic seeds; cotton yields would
increase from 300 lb to 800 lb per acre, mainly through spraying against
insects, and groundnut yields would rise from 300 lb to 450 lb per acre
by using improved seeds and better husbandry. The estimates of incremental



- 22 -
yields are, on the average, about 15-20% lower than those assumed earlier,
both in the appraisal report of the first project and in Government's pre-
paration report for this Project. The downward adjustments are based on
yields actually achieved in the Project area during the past two years.
6.02      In Chitipa some 5,100 farmers would increase the production of
maize and groundnuts over a nine year period. The expected yield in-
creases are slightly higher than in Karonga because the average rainfall
is somewhat better. The yield of composite or synthetic maize varieties
is expected to be about 2,400 lb per acre and Chalimbana groundnuts would
yield about 500 lb per acre. An estimated 1,400 farmers would increase
the production of maize and groundnuts through an expansion of the
cultivated acreage by using work oxen for land preparation.
Production
6.03      The incremental crop production resulting from the Phase I and
II Projects respectively is summarized below (sh ton):
Phase I 1/      Phase II 2/    Total
Rice (paddy)                         3,575            2,400        5,975
Groundnuts                             240             1,200       1,440
Maize /3                                535            9,865       10,400
Cotton                                 735               585       1,320
1/   Karonga only; full benefits of Phase I investments to be reached
two years (dryland crops) or three years (irrigated rice) after
completion.
2/   Full development to be reached in year 4 (rainfed rice), year 5
(dryland crops Karonga) or year 9 (Chitipa).
3/   Corrected for decrease in cassava production; actual incremental
maize production would be slightly higher.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 4)
6.04      Participating farmers would sell all incremental cotton and at
least 90% of the incremental rice and groundnut production. Future maize
sales are more difficult to estimate since there exists an unquantified but
probably important unsatisfied demand in Karonga and Chitipa districts.
The best estimate is that the first 4,000 sh ton of the incremental pro-
duction would be consumed locally, either by the producers or by other re-
sidents of the two districts, and that the surplus would be sold outside



- 23 -
the area. ADMARC would continue to offer for all crops guaranteed minimum
prices and no problems are anticipated in marketing any of the commodities
involved. In the last few years ADMARC'S official produce prices to the
growers, especially for maize, have tended to lag behind the steep rise in
fertilizer costs and also behind prices paid in neighboring countries, but
the substantial increases which were announced for the 1975/76 growing season
are expected to be high enough to maintain the farmers' incentives. Since
ADMARC's prices are uniform for the whole country and the isolated Karonga and
Chitipa districts have traditionally many informal commercial ties with
neighboring Zambia and Tanzania it is likely that a significant part of the
agricultural production would continue to be marketed outside the official
ADM1ARC channels.
C. Farmers' Benefits (Annex 1 and 11)
6.05      The number of farm families who are expected to benefit from the
Phase I (Karonga only) and II Projects are summarized below (Annex 1, Tables I
and 2):
Total Number of      Adopting Families
Farm Families   1/  Number  Percentage
Karonga Lake Shore
End of Phase I      - 1975/76               21,100            4,500        21
Full development   - 1982/83                25,100            9,000        36
Chitipa Plain
Prior to Phase II  - 1975/76                12,800              300         2
Full Development   - 1984/85                16,000            5,400        34
1/   The population increase is estimated at 2.5% per annum.
There exists no satisfactory basis for these projections. In Government's
preparation report the final adoption rate was estimated at 50% for both
Karonga and Chitipa. Since this projection may be somewhat optimistic it has
in this report been assumed that about one third of the total number of farm
households would respond to the Project's extension efforts. No estimates
have at this stage been made on the possible adoption by some 3,900 farm
families living in the coffee growing Misuku hills in Chitipa, pending the
findings of the recommended coffee study. Since extension services in the
Misuku area would be improved as in other parts of Chitipa and inputs on
credit for food crops would be available to these farmers, some response may
be expected but no attempt has been made to quantify this.



- 24 -
6.06      Typical farm families would increase the net value of crop pro-
duction as follows through adoption of improved husbandry methods (Annex 11):
Without      With
Project    Project         Increment
MK         MK        MK   US$ Percentage
Karonga
-Ac.  Farim witL  RiXnIed
Rice (2 acres)                  166          214      48   55      28
4-Acre Dryland Crop Farm            64          115      51   58      79
Chitipa
4-Acre Farm, Hand Cultivated        72           99      27   31      38
8-Acre Farm, Oxen-cultivated        72 1/       188     116  133    162
1/   Without Project:  4 acres, hand cultivated.
The official 1976 ADMARC crop prices were used in this calculation; the values
are slightly different (higher in most cases) if international prices projected
for 1980, are used (Annex 11, Tables 3-5). Incremental incomes would also be
higher if farmers realize higher prices by selling their produce to local
traders. Incremental incomes are likely to differ substantially, depending on
the extent to which farmers adopt improved techniques. Incomes would also
depend on the size of the farm, which is usually closely related to the number
of household members. The estimates of the total production include subsis-
tence but, as stated in paragraph 6.04, most of the increment would be sold
for cash.
D. Effect on Government Budget (Annex 10)
6.07      The cash flow, presented in Annex 10, shows that the Government
would not be able to recover on-going expenditures under this Project. After
completion of the Project and excluding debt service, the annual cost to
Government to maintain the level of extension and other services amounts to
MK 0.6 million and stabilizes at 2IK 0.5 million from year 10 onwards, leading
to a cumulative deficit of MK 11.1 million (US$12.3 million) by year 20.
Comparable figures, including debt service, average MK 0.8 million for years
5-9, stabilizing to IK 1.2 million in year 10 and the cumulative deficit by
year 20 is projected to be MK 19.8 million (US$22.0 million). In preparing
the cash flow, ADMARC's profits on incremental marketable production have been
included and also the increased revenues through improved Lake Transport
services and the surplus generated by the credit fund. In the event that a
part of the incremental production does not pass through ADMARC channels the
deficit would be higher. No revenues arising out of the NRDP preinvestment



- 25 -
phase have been included. Possible farmers contributions to Government
revenue through indirect taxes resulting from increased activities in the two
northern districts are expected to be small and have not been taken into
account either. The costs for continuing the services are normally covered
from general budget allocations. However, in view of the Government's narrow
revenue base, it is not clear whether the additional recurrent costs could be
absorbed without some changes in policies, for example concerning pricing of
agricultural produce or the taxation system. Therefore, and also because
additional deficits may result from the implementation of future NRDP projects,
it was agreed at negotiations that the Government would undertake a study,
assisted by consultants if necessary, of the long term budgetary implications
of all agricultural development projects. The results of the study would be
discussed with the Bank before September 30, 1977.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION (Annexes 12 and 13)
7.01      The chief benefits of the Project would be increased production of
rice, maize, groundnuts and cotton in Karonga and Chitipa districts. At
full development, to be reached in year 5 in Karonga district and in year 9
in Chitipa, the value of the incremental production for the two Phases combined
would be about MK 1.9 million (US$2.2 million) per year of which about two
thirds would result from developments to be initiated under the second Phase
Project. In the livestock sector further increases in cattle productivity
(beyond those generated by improved animal health facilities constructed under
Phase I), are likely because demonstration work on the two livestock centers
would continue but it is not possible to make estimates of the benefits
because reliable data are lacking. The population of Karonga and Chitipa
districts would benefit from improvements to the health facilities and from
the construction of boreholes. The NRDP preinvestment phase, included in this
Project, would increase MANR's capacity to prepare and administer rural
development projects and would also establish basic staff facilities and
infrastructure necessary for a speedy and effective implementation, in about
two years time, of three NRDP sub-projects in areas with good potential for
development. The construction of berthing facilities and associated struc-
tures at Chipoka would increase the capacity of the port, decrease ship turn
around time, increase the productivity of cargo handling and reduce cargo
damage.
7.02      Based on IBRD forecast prices, the internal economic return (IER)
of the Karonga-Chitipa part of the Project is estimated at 14%. The research,
health, evaluation and livestock components, representing about one third of
the cost of this part of the Project, were not included in the calculations
since their benefits cannot be quantified. The Lake Transport component has
an IER of 18%. No economic rate of return can yet be calculated on the pre-
investments under the NRDP component during the first two Project years.
Appropriate proportions of these pre-investments would be included in the
economic evaluation of the first full fledged NRDP project which is sched-
uled to be appraised in late 1977. The official exchange rate of the Malawi
currency is believed to be a reasonable approximation of its true economic



- 26 -
value in view of the relatively low net effective protection. Therefore
foreign exchange costs and benefits have been included at par values. Em-
ployment opportunities outside the Project are virtually non-existent and
the Project itself makes limited demands on available family labour. A
shadow price of zero for family labour has therefore been assumed in the
economic analysis. If the cost of incremental family labour is assumed
to be 25% of the daily wage rate the IER would be reduced from 14% to 13%.
The aggregate IER for the whole Project is estimated at 16%.
7.03      The major risks facing the Project are that adoption rates of
improved crop husbandry methods and the increases of crop yields would be
lower than forecast. The IER would decrease to 8% when only 90% of the es-
timated benefits materialize and a further reduction to 3% would occur if at
the same time the costs would increase by 10%. Since conservative adoption
rates and yield increases have been assumed it is equally probable that the
adoption rates and the yields would be higher, thereby resulting in a higher
than estimated economic return.
7.04      Information on actual per capita incomes in Karonga and Chitipa
districts is fragmentary and incomplete. When valued at the official
ADMARC prices the present annual net income from the production of crops,
including subsistence, is about MK35-40 (US$40-45) per capita for Karonga's
rice growers and about MK 15-20 (US$20) for Karonga's and Chitipa's dry-
land farmers. Recent cash receipts for crops were, however, considerably
higher because of unrecorded border sales, especially of groundnuts. Sales
of cattle across the border make it difficult to estimate income farmers
may have received from livestock activities. A significant number of house-
holds in Karonga district is engaged in fishing on Lake Malawi but no re-
liable information on income from this source is available. On balance it
can be concluded, however, that present per capita incomes of the majority
of the Project's beneficiaries does not exceed the absolute poverty level
of US$40. The Project would provide temporary additional employment in the
construction sector for up to about 1,000 people and adopting farmers would
on average work about 25-30% more days on their fields.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  the standards of construction for staff houses would be
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 4.09);
(b)  Government would employ consultants, whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 4.13);



- 27 -
(c)  Government would submit detailed development plans for the
three NRDP sub-projects, N.W. Mzimba, Thiwi-Lifidzi and
Kawinga, to the Bank before September 30, 1977 (paragraph 4.14);
(d)  no significant variations of additional staff positions for
the NRDP preliminary investment phase would be made without
consulting the Bank (paragraph 4.15);
(e)  Government would establish Lake Service tariffs which would
generate sufficient revenue to cover the operating costs
plus depreciation or debt service, whichever is greater
(paragraph 4.16);
(f)  Government would consult with the Bank on new appointments to
the posts of KRDP Project manager and NRDP coordinator (paragraph
5.02 and 5.03);
(g)  Government would undertake a review of MANR's manpower situation
in the next decade to establish a feasible rate of expansion of
future agricultural development activities; the results of the
review would be discussed with the Bank before June 30, 1977
(paragraph 5.05);
(h)  the levels of MANR's agricultural staff in Karonga and Chitipa
would be substantially as detailed in Annex 8, Appendix 2
(paragraph 5.05);
(i)  Governments final proposals for future credit arrangements,
presently under preparation, would be discussed with the Bank
before June 30, 1977 (paragraph 5.06); and
(j)  Government would undertake a study of the long term budgetary
implications of all agricultural development projects; the
results of the study would be discussed with the Bank before
September 30, 1977 (paragraph 6.07).
8.02      During negotiations it was agreed that no disbursements against ex-
penditures for the NRDP component would be made before Government establishes
the additional staff positions specified in Annex 7, Appendix 1.
8.03      The Project is suitable for an IBRD (Third Window) Loan of US$9.2
million to the Government of Malawi.






ANNEIX 1
Page 1
tALAWI
lARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Agricultural Development
A. Background
Introduction
1.        This first section describes briefly the four main crop systems
which are followed in Karonga and Chitipa districts and also summarizes the
development started under KRDP, Phase I. Details on each of the major crops
and their potential for improvement are given in the second section of this
Annex. The final section contains an outline of present and recommended
future research work.
Karonga Rice
2.        Rice is by far the most important crop and source of cash income
in the northern part of the Karonga Lake shore area. In 1972, no less than
20,000 acres, out of a total cultivated area of about 34,000 acres, involving
some 11,000 farm households, were cropped with rainfed rice. Another 3,000
acres of rice, of which 850 irrigated, are grown in the most southern part of
Karonga Lake shore. 'tore than half of the total paddy production is sold by
the farmers; ADMARC's purchases of paddy increased from about 4,000 sh ton in
1970/71 to 8,275 sh ton in 1974.
3.        The first project provided for two irrigation schemes, one of 1,000
acres at Lufira and one of 500 acres at Wovwe, in addition to the two schemes
which were built earlier in Hara and Wovwe with British aid. Because of
technical problems and heavy cost overruns which occurred during the construc-
tion of the Lufira scheme the new irrigation scheme at Wovwe was dropped from
the project. During the construction of the Lufira scheme it became clear
that costly concrete lining of the two main canals was necessary to avoid
excessive water losses. At the time of appraisal (October 1975) lining was
completed for one canal and the second was to be lined during the final
project year. Irrigation of the fist part of the Lufira scheme was scheduled
to start in early 1976. No further irrigation development is envisaged
under this Project in view of the high costs.
4.         The first project also provided for the improved layout of 6,000
acres of rainfed rice in northern Karonga. Demarcation of 5,000 acres is
scheduled to be completed by the end of Phase I, and this is 1,000 acres short
of the target, mainly because the project period was shortened by one year.
Improvements consisted of boxed water control bunds demarcated by the Land
Husbandry section and constructed by the farmers themselves. The section is
also trying out the usefulness of contour bunds with a vertical distance of



ANNEX 1
Page 2
A inches to facilitate quick disposal of surplus rainstorm water and to
retain some water as a safeguard against drought. At present most rice
fields are laid out in north-south and east-west lines, parallel to the
roads but if the trials prove successful the contour layout would be en-
couraged on a wider scale. This would involve the construction of masterbunds
with a vertical spacing of 12 inches or a horizontal spacing of 100 yards by a
motor grader while the intermediate bunds would be done by the farmers them-
selves. Where necessary natural drainage lines would also be improved.
5.        Very little fertilizer was applied to rainfed rice before the
first project but this has changed rapidly in the last few years; the project
provided both fertilizer and seeds on credit. During the first season
(1973/74) 142 m ton of fertilizer and 32 sh ton rice seed were distributed on
credit to 1,043 farmers. The following season (1974/75) the amount of ferti-
lizer increased to 216 m ton (despite the steep rise in fertilizer prices) and
seed to 149 sh ton for a total of 2,467 farmers. Assuming application rates
of 75 kg fertilizer and 60 lb seed per acre the acres involved can be estimated
at about 2,900 ac with fertilizer and 4,950 with improved seeds. The Evalu-
ation Section of the project found for the 1974/75 significant differences
in yields: the average yields of "scheme" farmers was about 2,550 lb per
acre and in three "non-scheme" areas the average yields varied between 1,100
and 1,650 lb per acre. This clearly demonstrates the immdiate impact of the
use of fertilizer and improved seeds on the production and it is expected
that about half of all rainfed rice growers would follow this example by the
end of the second Project.
Karonga Dryland Crops
6.        Cassava and, to a lesser extent, maize are the staple foods in
the southern half of the Karonga Lake shore while groundnuts are grown mainly,
and cotton entirely, as cash crops. The cultivated area in southern Karonga
was estimated at about 37,000 acres in 1972 involving some 8,200 families.
A typical crop rotation pattern is as follows:
(i) 25% pure stand maize, and 8% mixture of maize and groundnuts;
(ii) 33% maize interplanted with cassava; and
(iii) 33% second year cassava.
Other crops, such as cotton, sorghum, millet and pulses are also grown but
their proportions in the overall cropping pattern are small. Intercropping
is common in the most southern part of Karonga. ADMARC crop purchases were
during the last few years virtually restricted to cotton; the quantities
involved varied between 150 and 200 sh ton during the period 1970-1972 and
increased to 247 sh ton in 1973 and 320 sh ton in 1974. In the past ADMARC
also purchased significant amounts of groundnuts (365 sh ton in 1969) but in
1975 AD1IARC managed to buy only a few bags. Almost all groundnuts were sold
locally to traders because of higher prices.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        One of the objectives of the first project was to consolidate
the many scattered holdings into well-organized dryland crop schemes and
to provide the farmers with extension advice and farm inputs, particularly
fertilizer, seeds and insecticides, on credit. Plots, demarcated in the
first few years, varied in size between four and eight acres but it was
concluded that four acres is probably the maximum area that the average
family can cultivate intensively by hand. By the end of the first phase
project some 7,800 acres are expected to be demarcated. Distribution
of inputs on credit was initially restricted to farmers in the consolidated
schemes. Only 20 m ton fertilizer was distributed on credit for maize in
1974/75, compared with 19 m ton in the previous year. Over the same period
the distribution of improved maize seed increased from three to seven sh
ton and that of groundnut seed from 10 to 26 sh ton. In order to involve
the maximum number of farmers, project management has recently started to
make inputs available also for non-scheme farmers. Overall, the distri-
bution of inputs is behind schedule.
8.        On the basis of all inputs distributed in 1974/75 the combined
improved area of maize, groundnuts and cotton must have been about 2,350
acres (of which about 1,000 acres cotton), whereas the revised appraisal
estimate indicated 5,200 acres for that year. Undoubtedly the high ferti-
lizer prices played an adverse role but even allowing for this the fore-
cast was probably too optimistic. The proportions of the various crops
envisaged in the cropping pattern (45% maize, 45% cotton and 10%o ground-
nuts) have not materialized either. Too much emphasis was given to maize,
which does not grow very well in the hot and dry central part of Karonga
Lake shore, not enough attention was given to groundnuts which is an
attractive crop if prices are good, and cassava was ignored and is still
officially banned from the dryland crop schemes. In view of the importance
of cassava in the traditional diet it was not surprising that farmers com-
plained about this unfortunate regulation. In the present Project equal
areas of maize, groundnuts, cotton and cassava have been assumed for the
final cropping pattern. Some 3,500 farmers (about one third of the total)
are expected to be involved in improved dryland cropping by the end of
the Project.
9.        The Evaluation Section of KRDP collected for the first time yield
information during the 1974/75 season both on "scheme" and "non-scheme" farms.
The results are interesting although they should be treated with caution:
many "scheme" farmers have not yet used the input packages whereas some "non-
scheme" farmers did actually obtain inputs on credit. The results are
summarized below (in lb per acre):
Non-Scheme farms           Scheme farms
Maize                          475 - 1,150                   1,810
Groundnuts (shelled)           385 -   455                     605
Cotton                                  640                    940



Page 4
Chitipa Plains
1'0.      In 1974 some 12,500 farm households cultivated about 45,000 acres
af land in the Chitipa plains. There are important land reserves in the
form of fallow land (143,000 acres) and uncultivated land (130,000 acres).
The southern part of the plains is more undulating and has a larger proportion
of unproductive land with a lower density of population than the north.
About two thirds of the cultivated land is under maize and almost all of
that is intercropped with pulses, groundnuts or cassava. Cassava is the
second most important crop. Slash and burn growing techniques, locally called
visoso, are common for the cultivation of millet.
11.       Data on yields are very scarce and estimates on average maize
yields vary between 600 and 1,000 lb per acre. In two dryland schemes,
which were established with the very active participation of several hundreds
of farmers, maize yields of about 3,500 lb per acre have been achieved with
synthetic seed and up to 5,000 lb per acre with hybrid seed and a heavy
application of 100 kg sulphate of ammonia and 100 kg of compound 20.20.0
fertilizer. Besides maize there is also a good potential for the production of
more groundnuts, beans and livestock.  There is room for both intensified
production on existing farms and for increasing the cultivated area by using
work-oxen for land cultivation. A good start has already been made with the
use of work-oxen and several hundreds of them have by now been trained with
the help of extension staff. Cultivation of new areas needs in many places to
be preceded by the construction of boreholes or wells since sufficient house-
hold water and drinking water for cattle is lacking during the dry season.
Miisuku Hills
12.       The Misuku hills are located in northern Chitipa and are charac-
terized by steep slopes, at an altitude mostly between 4,000 and 6,000 feet
above sea level. In 1974 an estimated 3,700 families cultivated about 18,000
acres of land. The subsistence crops which are grown in the Misuku hills
are similar to those cultivated in the plains, with the exception of Irish
potatoes which are only grown in the high altitude areas. Small plots of
coffee are kept as a cash crop by about one third of the farmers. The poten-
tial of the area, especially for improved coffee growing, is not clear and
requires further investigations and, above all, farm scale testing of possible
improvements. Besides coffee there may be some potential for beans, peas and
livestock. Expansion of the cultivated area does not seem advisable in view
of the risk of gully erosion, and a balanced extension effort seems needed to
intensify the present farming system.
B. Crop Development
Rice
13.       Varieties.  In northern Karonga tlie variety Fava is corim-nl'.- ruwn.
This is an old, local indica type which is fairlv well adapte8 to varianih1



ANNEX 1
Page 5
conditions of excess or shortage of water. During prolonged rains Faya is
known to be susceptible to seedling blast from which it may recover somewhat
if the rains end in time. Shattering is a problem which is worsened by wide
spacing leading to excessive tillering: the last tillers are still green when
the first are ready for cutting. Faya is a long grain type 6.5-7 mm x 2.5-3 mm
and may yield up to 6,000 lb per acre. The growing season from seed to seed
is 150-160 days. KRDP's Evaluation Section observed in 1974/75 that Faya has
a disease problem under rainfed farming conditions, especially in the southern
part of north Karonga, where drought may worsen the effect. The disease is
probably blast (Piricularia oryzae) but a regular check by a qualified plant
pathologist is needed to detect other disease problems at an early stage.
Reselection of Faya on blast resistance is undertaken by KRDP's Research
Section. Selection of promising lines should be followed by early, area wide
testing at 4-6 sites and by early rapid multiplication of seed. The finally
selected line or a mixture of lines should be produced in a quantity of
around 250 ton a year to enable all rainfed rice farmers to renew their seed
every third year. Early bulking of promising varieties and mass bulking of
finally chosen material should be speeded up and safeguarded against drought.
This could be done by using the new irrigation facilitities at Lufira over a
yearly acreage of about 100 acres with up to 50 good contract farmers. The
organization and supervision (field and seed inspection) of this task should
be done by the KRDP Research Section until the Seed Services of ADMARC can be
entrusted with it. Blast resistant material is especially needed when more
fertilizer is used as the latter tends to increase blast susceptibility.
14.       In southern Karonga the Blue Belle variety, a well-known American
indica-japonica type with a fair yield potential of over 3,000 lb paddy per
acre, is grown during dry as well as wet seasons in a growing period of
120-150 days. It produces extra long grain 7-7.5 mm x 3-3.5 mm. This
variety seems to be more resistant to blast but is unsuitable for the tough
conditions of rainfed production in north Karonga.
15.       Seed and Sowing.  Most Karonga rice growers use their own seed,
except in the area of the first project where fresh seed, bought on credit,
is widely being used. There is a wide range of sowing dates caused by the
unpredictable rains of May-June. These rains threaten ripening rice sown in
December-January, but in some years their absence damages the growth of rice
sown in March-April. Vital period analysis over 20 years rainfall in north
Karonga indicates as optimal sowing dates: Karonga: January; Mwenitete:
January-February; and Songwe: February-March. Under irrigation, sowing dates
are determined mainly by the need for dry harvest weather, i.e. around
January and around June which leaves little time for cultivation when Faya with
its rather long growing season is planted. The comparatively late sowing
in north Karonga allows soil cultivation in December and January and makes
it possible to get rid of the early flush of weeds before sowing. Most
rice in north Karonga is sown directly in hills 8" x 8" (20 x 20 cm) apart



ANNEX 1
Page 6
with 4-5 seeds per hill. This permits rapid weeding as well as fair venti-
lation of the crop which helps to suppress blast. Serious weed problems
may develop where seeds are broadcasted.
16.       Fertilizer.  Research work of fairly long standing (6 years with
12 seasonal rice crops) indicates that for the time being only nitrogenous
fertilizer is needed. This can be applied in one or two top-dressings,
say 1 and 2.5 months after sowing. An average yield of 1,600 lb paddy per
acre may be expected without fertilizer. With fertilizer yields would in-
crease by about 500 lb paddy per acre for each additional 50 kg bag of sul-
phate of ammonia or CAN. It is assumed that the application on well control-
led rainfed rice would be around 75 kg sulphate of ammonia which would result
in a yield of about 2,400 lb per acre. On irrigated rice the application
would be 150 kg of fertilizer and the yield 3,000 lb per acre.
17.       Crop Protection.  Early weeding in rice is important since the
young, non-transplanted rice seedlings are sensitive to the competition of the
mostly vigorous water weeds. Insect pests and rodents do not seem to cause
much problems, at least not under traditional conditions, but a close watch is
necessary under improved conditions. As noted above, there is a serious
disease (probably blast) problem which must be remedied by regularly using
fresh, disease resistant, seeds.
Maize
18.       Varieties.  The local seed varieties produce under normal dryland
conditions rather small cobs with about one oz grain each. This gives a
false impression of low yield potential because the same varieties grown
on residual moisture in shallow holes 4' x 4' apart can produce strong plants
and large cobs with an estimated 0.5 lb grain each, which corresponds to
a yield of about 4,000 lb (20 bags) per acre. Even these heavy cobs are
wrapped stiffly in their cob leaves protecting them against pests. Other
advantages of the traditional maize variety are a hard seedcoat, which offers
resistance against storage pests, and a taste which is appreciated by the farm
families. Recently, synthetic and composite varieties have been introduced.
Generally they have a higher yield potential and show a greater response to
fertilizer but thorough testing of new varieties for drought tolerance,
resistance to pests and acceptability of taste is necessary before they are
recommended to replace the traditional varieties. Since the seeds of syn-
thetics and composites need to be replaced only once in every three years the
cost of these types of improved seeds is rather low, compared with the cost of
hybrid seed which is far more expensive and needs to be renewed every year.
19.       Seed and Sowing.  Maize is always the first crop to be sown
but planting is usually late because of late soil cultivation which only
begins after the first rains have softened the soil to a depth of 6-8



ANNEX I
Page 7
inches. The efficiency of the early rains is low because the soil is still
bare and compact, leading to run-off losses. The heat between the first rain
storms further causes evaporation losses. Cultivation is often delayed until
December-January and effective sowing till January or even February. Vital
period analysis of monthly rainfall of Karonga and Chitipa data over periods
varying from 7 to 39 years suggests that sowing within a month after the first
rains should be recommended. Reports of the Evaluation Section for the
1974/75 season suggest a yield reduction of 1%, or 8 lb maize per acre, for
every day's delay in sowing after the first heavy rains. Stooking the maize
during the soft dough stage of the cobs would permfit land cultivation for the
next season before the soil becomes too dry and would also conserve most of
the stalk's feeding value for dry season feeding of livestock. The field can
then be ridged to allow soaking-in of the early rains. This would make it
possible to plant at least a month earlier than at present. The Evaluation
Section found in 1974/75 an average stand of 6,000 hills with 15,000 plants
per acre which is too low to produce satisfactory yields as shown below:
5,000 plants gave a yield of   550 lb per acre
15,000 plants gave a yield of 1,000 lb per acre
25,000 plants gave a yield of 1,400 lb per acre
The popular 3 x 3 x 3 planting (3 plants per hill, 3 ft. by 3 ft. apart)
leads to 14,500 plants but an 80% stand has only 11,600 plants which on
average yield 700 lb per acre. A stand of 20,000 plants per acre is recom-
mended and filling in should start as soon as the seedlings are up. Thinning
out and weeding should follow within two weeks.
20.       Fertilizer.  The use of one bag of compound 20.20.0 and one bag
of 20% nitrogenous fertilizer sulphate of ammonia (or an acid soils calcium
ammonium nitrate) on an improved variety can be expected to raise the yield
from 800 lb per acre to 2200 lb in Karonga and to 2400 lb in Chitipa. At
1975/76 prices the gross value of the incremental production is about 1.8-2
times the total extra cost of seed and fertilizer which may be too low for
rainfed farming. As the N-conversion percentage is already 55%, which is
quite high for rainfed conditions, the possibility of reducing the amount of N
is small. Phosphate could possibly be omitted which would reduce the fertili-
zer cost and increse the benefit/cost ratio to 2.1-2.4.
21.       Plant Protection.  Oral evidence suggests that weeding often starts
3-4 weeks after sowing "when there are enough weeds to make a good hoeing
worth while." This suggests the existence of severe early weed competition
to the young maize seedlings in their most sensitive stage. The harm is then
already done and later weeds would not have much further direct effect. The
message clearly is that weeding should start a week after sowing or filling in



ANNEX 1
Page 8
and be repeated every two weeks till tile crop is weed free and closes.
Experience elsewhere has shown that earlv, swift and frequent weeding gives
excellent results and reduces the total time spent on weeding. Maize is
rather free from pests in most of the cases; only light insect pests and light
rodents infestation are sometimes found but they have little effect on the
yields.  The storage pest situation is more serious.  In October-November
1975, all farm maize stores which were inspected had weevils; usually one
weevil per 20-25 seeds and in one case one per 10 seeds. The farmers' habit
of storing only the hard coated traditional maize is sound.
Groundnuts
22.       General.  Groundnuts grow well on sandy soils, where they are
easiest to lift and consequently they are grown especially in the southern
part of Karonga and in the central parts of Chitipa. Yields of pure stands of
traditionally grown groundnuts vary considerably and are on the average about
300 lb shelled nuts per acre. Some 5-10% of the cropped land is used for
groundnuts. In south Karonga nearly half of this is in pure stands and more
than half in mixtures with maize or other crops. In Chitipa most groundnuts
are grown in mixtures with maize. Trade in confectionary groundnuts is always
in shelled nuts. Large size groundnuts are preferred (Chalimbana variety),
but good tasting small nuts are also in demand (Malimba variety). Oilnuts
usually fetch a lower Drice and must make up for this by a higher vield; the
variety Manipintar excells in this respect. These nuts are sold unshelled.
Small farmers prefer to grow Chalimbana and sell them shelled. Large farmers
may lack the manpower to shell all their nuts and may grow part of their crop
for sale as unshelled oilnuts. Shelling takes one man day per 16 lb shelled
large nuts and one man day per 12 lb shelled small nuts.
23.       Varieties.  In the past the early maturing bunch type Malimba
or Barberton was the main variety grown in Karonga. More recently Malimba
is being replaced by the more vigorous, semi-spreading, later maturing,
less Cercospora sensitive, Chalimbana variety, which commands the confec-
tionary premium, while its larger seeds demand less shelling labour. In
Chitipa Chalimbanas are grown and, on the larger farms, Manipintar as well.
Chalimbana has the potential disadvantage of being more sensitive to Fusarium
but at present this is not a serious threat.
24.       Seed and Sowing.  The KRDP Evauation Unit found in 1974/75 that
most farmers use home grown seed; only 5% buys seed from ADMARC. Predominan-
tly self-pollinating crops like groundnuts, of which the seed is handled by
hand, are very suitable for on-farm multiplication. With a basic supply of
purchased good seed a farmer, who looks well after his seed rows, can easily
grow his own groundnut seed for a couple of years and renew it thereafter.
Yields of up to 800 lb per acre, as found by the Evaluation Section in one
of the dryland schemes, are quite possible if good seds are used.  Average
yields of Chalimbana groundnuts using improved seeds, are assumed to reach
=)() lb per acre in Karonga and 500 lb per acre in Chitipa. Yields of 'lanipin-
tar groundnuts would be slightly higher and are estimated at 525 lb per acre



ANNEX I
Page 9
in Chitipa. Although ridging eases lifting and improves water and soil
conservation, it is not essential for good growth. In Karonga it is being
practiced in about half of the fields. Groundnuts are always sown after maize
and often too late. In most areas of Karonga and Chitipa January is the best
month for sowing and the late rains of April-May do not cause problems during
ripening, especially when the Chalimbana or Manipintar varieties are planted.
The Evaluation Section also found a marked yield reduction for delayed sowing
after January. A clear relation between plant population and yield was also
found:
12,000 plants per acre, spacing 3' x 15", yielded 300 lb shelled/acre
16,000 plants per acre, spacing 3' x 10", yielded 400 lb shelled/acre
24,000 plants per acre, spacing 3' x 8", yielded 500 lb shelled/acre
From this, it is clear that plant spacing should be as close as 3' x 8".
Experience elsewhere has shown that such a close spacing should also be
practiced for types more vigorous than MIalimba because it produces more
compact plants which ripen more uniformly and incur lower harvest losses.
Close spacing is also important for groundnuts to reduce the incidence of
rosette disease.
25.       Fertilizer.  Karonga and Chitipa groundnuts are well nodulated
and should easily produce 100 lb shelled nuts per 7 lb N.  Groundnuts are
greedy feeders for other minerals but at the comparatively low yields envi-
saged, even under improved conditions, no fertilizer is needed, especially not
if preceding or accompanying maize is treated with phosphate (compound 20.20.0)
and ionised sulphur (ammonium sulphate). Ca may be deficient in sand areas
with over 40 inches rainfall and result in soft pods. This can be prevented
by applying an 8" band of 300 lb hydrated lime (on acid soils) or gypsum (or
neutral soils) over the open plant holes.
26.       Plant Protection.  The Evaluation Section found that in Karonga
groundnuts are weeded 1-2 times. If started fairly early, this should be
sufficient when the stands are reasonably close and uniform, especially
for the vigorous Chalimbana or Manipintar varieties. Only an irregular
stand needs more weeding since groundnuts do not readily shade other plants
out. Light insect and rodent damage occurs quite frequently. Rats and mon-
gooses can cause problems if not properly controlled. Light rosette and
Cercospora leafspot was present in half of the fields in 1974/75 especially in
central Karonga, where plant populations were comparatively low. Cercospora
control through sulphur dusting is being propagated by the Research Section
but not generally applied because of the high cost involved. Only under
excellent management would sulphur dusting be a paying proposition.
27.       Water and Soil Conservation.  Drought affects production in many
years. Dry season cultivation and ridging or box ridging should therefore
be encouraged since this would help considerably in preventing serious
drought damage.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Cotton
28.       Variety.  The Albar 637 variety grown in Malawi is doing very
well and may yield up to 2,000 lb seed cotton per acre under rainfed condi-
tions. Some new varieties, which were developed in Makoka, should be tested
out in southern Karonga. The Albar 637 fibre is 1-1/16 to 1-3/32 inch long,
fairly coarse, strong and even, and is suitable for spinning of 40's yarn
to be used in good quality textiles. There is a consistently good demand
in the international markets for such a quality handpicked cotton. It can
also be used very well in blends with shorter staple, cheaper cotton.
29.        Seed and Sowing.  In Malawi seed is supplied free of charge which
entails a risk of wastage and also excessive sowing rates which can delay
fruiting of the cotton. A minimal charge equal to the price payable when
used for oil crushing (currently about tambala 1.5/lb) should be considered.
This could reduce the seed rate from 40 lb to 20 lb per acre. Vital period
rainfall analysis suggests that cotton in central Karonga can best be sown
in January and in north and south Karonga in February. In northern Chitipa
cotton should be sown with the first rains. As a general rule cotton should
be sown immediately after maize. Left-over cotton fields, which were visited
in southern Karonga in October 1975, were found to be spaced too far apart.
A spacing of 3' x 1' gives a faster rate of production, which should result
irn savings on the cost of insecticides and on labour.  Three to four seeds
should be planted per hill and thinned out to single plants three weeks after
sowing.
30.        Fertilizer.  Fertilizer is not used on cotton in Karonga since it is
believed that it would extend the growing period and consequently also the
period of spraying against insect pests. It is possible, however, that a
light top dressing of 1.5 bag ammonium sulphate, at the time that the flowers
open, would increase the yields; this should be tested under field conditions.
No fertilizer application is assumed in the projections for this Project.
31.        Plant Protection.  Proper protection against insect pest is essen-
tial for profitable cotton growing. An inspection of left-over cotton stalks
during the field appraisal in October 1975 suggested that the egg-laying
Heliothis moths flourished in maize from January to March and than shifted to
cotton to produce the american boll worm (ABW). This, together with the first
generation of the corn-ear worm, set the scene for a fierce attack by ABW on
cotton, sown in February-March which, at that time, had just started to
square. Since the squares were still small the greedy feeders stripped of
entire fruiting branches to feed themselves. The cotton then developed
compensation branches, which in about half of the cases was delayed by the tip
boring Earias or spiny bollworm. The remaining stalks suggested that this had
continued up to August-September when both the growth of the cotton plants and
the infestations had slowed down and some bolls, which had escaped insect
attacks, had started to open up. Infestations in cotton which was planted
later followed a similar pattern but experienced an additional attack by
Dysderus spp., or stainers, towards the end of the cycle and numerous active
stainers were still present in October. tlowever, only few of these carried
orneitospora and only a very small part of the cotton showed the characteristic
yeLiow discolor.i:ion and neppy fibre effect of this fibre-cell protoplasma
fungus .



ANNEX 1
Page 11
32.       The conclusion is that the maize should at an early stage be checked
at night (especially in moonlit evenings) for the presence of ABW moths and
young larvae. If there are more than one per 10 plants, cotton spraying with
DDT should be considered and continued every 10 days till less than one ABW
larve is found per six plants. After three DDT sprays, one spray with Sevin
should stop Earias. Later spraying depends on the type of insects present;
ABW must be controlled with DDT but other bollworms and stainers with Sevin.
An alternative spray against ABU is Thiodan (Endosultan) which is more expen-
sive but also more effective since it also helps to control spiny bell worm
and aphids. Spraying pays probably only in good cotton, and farmers should be
encouraged to improve their growing methods. Average yields are assumed to
reach 800 lb per acre under this Project.
33.       Water and Soil Conservation.  Since cotton ripens during the dry
season the soil becomes very dry without any moisture reserves left which
makes early dry season cultivation for the next growing season impossible.
Therefore, in most soils tillage has to wait till after the first few inches
of rain have fallen and cotton need to be followed by a comparatively late
planted crop.
Cassava
34.       General.  Cassava is grown bv most farmers and is of special impor-
tance for subsistence in the Karonga Lake shore area. It is a good source
of starch and calories which need to be supplemented by fat and protein
to form a good diet. Groundnuts and/or fish are good supplements which are
also readily available. Cassava is less susceptible to adverse weather and
makes good use of rainfall and sunshine even on poor soils. It also fits
well into the cropping pattern and does not require much labour time in the
peak periods of other crops. Harvesting and farm processing can be done in
slack times which leads to a more even use of manpower. Cassava also has a
potential as an export crop and small amounts of cassava chips are now being
sold to Europe to be used in cattle feed. In the past, research and extension
workers have given little attention to this crop but since it plays such
an important, and clearly well appreciated, role in the diet of the rural
population and because it may have a larger potential for export than thusfar
recognized it would not be justified to ignore this crop altogether during
the implementation of the Project.
35.       Varieties.  No special varieties of cassava have been developed
in Malawi. Early screening of imported varieties, e.g. from Ibadan in West
Africa is necessary, in order to eliminate undesirable, especially mosaic
sensitive types, at an early stage. There is, however, little hope that
fully mosaic resistant varieties can be found in the near future.
36.       Seed and Sowing.  Since all Marihot esculenta types from Africa
and South America are susceptible to mosaic diseases the chances of infec-
tion should be reduced by selective stimulation of material which is still
free from the virus. Clean plants should be selected and cuttings of each
plant planted out in separate rows in isolated nurseries. Rows without
any infected plants should be propagated further, and rows with suspicious



ANNEX 1
Page 12
plants discarded. Good and traceable administration of clonal selections
and reselections and rapid bulking of approved material are essential.
Irrigated nurseries would speed up the multiplication. The Research Section
should start clonal selection and multiplication and the village level
extension workers should help the farmers to further multiply healthy
plants.
37.       Plant Protection.  One or two weedings after planting and one in
December-.January of the next rainy season will be enough. There are no
insect pests of direct influence on cassava. The main disease problem is
mosaic, as discussed earlier. Losses may average 10% but can vary between
5% and 90%. Mosaic is thus a serious threat to the farmers' major subsis-
tence reserve and requires therefore a substantial effort to overcome it.
38.       Water and Soil Conservation.  Cassava is grown fairly generally
on 3' ridges. Most of these are contour ridges and contribute to soil and
water conservation. Cassava is lifted during the dry period and this
amounts to a dry season cultivation of the soil which is favourable for
absorbtion of early rains.
Beans
39.       General.  Beans are mainly grown as a subsistence crop and are
a major source of vegetable protein to suplement maize and especially cassava.
Most beans are interplanted with maize during the rainy season, but they
are also grown during the dry season in moist valley soils interplanted
with sweet potatoes and other vegetable crops, or groundnuts. Because of
their preference for moderately warm growing conditions, they are more common
in Chitipa than along the Karonga Lake shore and more in the hills than in
the Chitipa plain. Beans, more than groundnuts are suitable for coffee
growing areas such as the Misuku hills and could be a good alternative cash
crop for these areas. Buying of dry beans, which have about the same value
per pound as coffee cherries, could very well be organized at the existing
coffee pulperies. The quality of the beans is generally good.
40.       Varieties.  Beans are grown in mixed varieties and have many dif-
ferent colors and sizes. This probably ensures a greater adaptability to
unpredictable growing conditions, particularly weather, than pure lines.
Cultivation of pure lines should be tried out to assess the possibility
of growing beans for export.
41.       Seed and Sowing.  Farmers use their own seed and would continue
to do so until other sources of seed have shown a superior performance under
a representative range of conditions. In interplanted cropping beans occupy
about 15-20% of total plant population. In pure stands and with good manage-
ment bean yields are expected to average 400 lb per acre under the Project.
42.       Plant Protection.  So far pests and diseases are not common in
mixed growing conditions but continuous checks are necessary, particularly
when pure lines are grown. Early weeding is essential.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Coffee
43.       General.  Some 3,200 of Malawi's smallholders grow coffee and the
total number of trees is estimated at about one million. The largest con-
centration is in Misuku hills in Chitipa district where about 1,400 farmers
grow about 360,000 trees. Other concentrations are at Vipya North, Phoka
and N'kata Bay. Only 55% of all trees are mature and only 30% are bearing.
Production is very low and does probably not exceed 1,250 lb cherries per
acre or 6 lb  per bearing tree.  The farmers' interest in the crop seems
to be low and only the bare minimum attention is given to essential hus-
bandry practices like mulching, pruning, pest control, weeding, and water
and soil conservation. Most of the coffee is grown in the drier, upslope
soils, where it is left exposed to the wide variation in rainfall to die-
back following alternate bearing (not mitigated by good pruning) and to a
host of diseases, of which Fusarium is the most notorious, and pests, like
white ants, which thrive under such marginal conditions. The growers
deliver their cherries at one of 24 pulperies which ADMARC operates in the
four coffee areas and were paid only 4 tambala per lb during the 1974/75
season, which certainly does not help encourage better crop care. The
pulperies, which are well designed but badly managed, cope easily with the
meager production but fail to realize their potential role as centers of
improvement. Coffee research has concentrated on the estate type of coffee
in the south of Malawi but its results are not very relevant for small-
holder coffee grown uphill in the north. There is no evidence that the
smallholder coffee industry has benefitted from expert advice in the more
recent past and there is a real need to devise a minimum input package which
should be tested under smallholder growing conditions.
44.       Recommendation.  The potential of the smallholder coffee industry
should be assessed as a matter of urgency. A thorough field study should
therefore be undertaken; the subjects to be covered should include:
(i) agricultural aspects, e.g. crop husbandry, research,
extension, training and credit;
(ii) costs of coffee growing, processing and further
handling; and
(iii) marketing, i.e. quantity, quality, farmers' prices
and export prospects.
First of all the study should determine whether there is sufficient promise
of success for reviving the industry and, if this appears to be the case
the steps needed to achieve this. The study should also pay attention to
the possibility of growing alternative cash crops in the four smallholder
coffee areas. The study team should consist of an experienced coffee agro-
nomist who should also be familiar with the various stages of coffee pro-
cessing, and a qualified economist; it is expected that the study would take
about six months.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
45.       Crop Development Projections.  On the basis of the preceding
considerations projections have been made on the crop areas to be improved
under the Project and on the resulting incremental yields and production -
see Tables 1 and 2. A summary of the crop input packages is at Appendix 3
and the estimated total seasonal input requirements at Table 3.
C. Research
Agricultural Research
46.       Research programs under KRDP cover two fields of work:
(i) participation in national research programs, mainly
variety trials; and
(ii) more Project centered work to help relieve regional
bottlenecks.
Project research staff contribute to national programs by advising on relative
priorities, e.g. drought resistance selection for practically all crops,
blast resistance in rice, storage of subsistence produce, hut also questions
like pasture management (including bush control and introduction of upland or
dambo legumes) and introduction of ley-fallows. Another subject could be the
introduction of efficient small farmers' equipment for soil cultivation,
weeding and pest control. Additionally, more Project specific research
programs may be drawn up in consultation with other Project staff who should
feel encouraged to indicate bottlenecks in development to the Research staff.
The following subjects should be covered:
(i) fertilizer levels for rice, maize, cotton, coffee,
cassava and beans;
(ii) trials with more mosaic free cassava;
(iii) control of local pests in cotton, maize and cassava:
(iv) establishment of optimal sowing sequences; and
(v) supplementary feeding of cattle with locally avail-
able residues or by-products.
The KRDP program of trials for the 1975/76 season is at Appendix 1.  Some
shifts of emphasis should be considered. The attention, which is given
to timing of nitrogen application, to maize breeding, and to perennial crops
might be reduced and more emphasis be given to priorities which arise out of
discussions with other field sections of the Project namely Extension, Land
Husbandry, Evaluation and Animal Husbandry. In collaboration with these
sections, particularly Extension, of program a farm scale tests of possible
improvements should be set up and implemented.  Recommendations for the
principal crops are at Appendix 2.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Hydrological Research
47.       Hydrological research work in KRDP covers two broad areas.  Firstly,
it participates in the implementation of a national meteorological and hydro-
logical program which has been set up to collect basic data in the whole
of Malawi. The existing network of stations would be expanded with a few new
meteorological and riverlevel gauging stations and all staff would be
thoroughly trained and supervised with the objective of increasing the re-
liability of the data collected to a satisfactory level. Secondly, the unit
would assist in the formulation of recommendations for crop varieties, sowing
dates, farming practices, etc., on the basis of the accumulated data. More-
over the unit would help assess the irrigation potential of various river
streams and examine the presence and economic potential of aquifers.
February 15, 1976



ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Program of Trials for Karonga and Chitipa, 1975/76
Rice
Hara:
National variety trial
Rice basic fertilizer trial
Timing of nitrogen application trial
Wovwe:
Rice basic fertilizer trial
Timing of nitrogen trial
Blue Bonnet 50 selection trials
Mperere:
Variety trial
Rice basic fertilizer trial
Timing of nitrogen trial
National Faya strains trial (rainfed trial with irrigation)
Lufira:
Rice basic fertilizer trial
Timing of nitrogen trial
Maize Breeding
Baka:
International maize adaptation trial
CIMMYT variety trial
E. African maize variety trial
Diallel trial
Main national maize variety trial
Lufita, Vinthukutu, Kapenda, Lupembe, Mpata:
National maize variety trial



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
Maize Agronomy
Proposals still to be made
Groundnuts
Baka, Lupembe, Mpata, Vinthukutu, Lufita, Kapenda:
Variety trial
District fungicide trials
Kapenda and Lufita:
Lime + sulphur + gypsum trial
Sorghum
Baka:
National sorghum variety trial
Phaseolus Beans
Baka:
Variety trial
Beans x cassava interplanting trial
Delay crop utilizing residual moisture and fertilizer
Chitipa
Variety x time of planting trial
Mixed cropping x time of planting
Finger Millet
Variety trials at Nthalire, Chisenga, Lufita and Kapenda
Guar Bean
Baka:
Time of planting x variety trial
Chillies
Baka:
Variety x time of planting trial
Spacing x fertilizer trial



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 3
Coffee
Program to be discussed later. Variety trial and NPK trial at
Misuku to continue and liming trial to be planted.
Cassava
Program to be formulated by working party.
Limes
Observation plots on limes ex-Karonga and ex-Mulanje to be
established at Baka and Mwangulukulu for eventual individual
tree recording.
Cashew
Individual recording of cashew trees at Baka to continue.
Citrus
Establishment of a plot of promising citrus cultivars at Baka.
Bananas
N x K x Mulching trial to continue.
Jojoba
Observation plots to be established at Baka and in a drier area
(Lupembe or Ngara).
Cotton
1.   The program of farmers plots carried out in 1974/75 season
will be repeated.
2.   5 x one acre plots to be established.  Half plots to be
sprayed and half unsprayed. Due to expected low yields
this may have to be grown by the Research Services.
3.   5 x 1/2 acre plots to be grown for entomological studies.
These plots will have to be grown by the Research Services.



ANNEX 1
Appendix I
Page 4
Silviculture
Plots of mulberries to be extended - reclearing and mulching
to be carried out.
Variety trial
Variety x time of planting trial
Repeat of time of weeding trial
Kenaf
Time of planting trial (Karonga) site to be finalized yet.
February 15, 1976



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Farm Scale Testing of Crop Husbandry Improvements
It is vitally important to determine the effects of proposed improve-
ments under farm. conditions in various locations and, if successful, to demon-
strate these to the farmers. Simple farm scale tests and demonstrations should
therefore be conducted which would make it possible to compare improved and
unimproved fields laid out next to each other. Except for the purchase of
inputs, farmers should do all the work themselves since some improvements are
likely to pay off even at poor farms and others at good farms only. These
tests/demonstrations should be laid out on at least one good, one intermediate
and one poor farm in each section served by a Technical Assistant. A list of
recommendations for the various crops follows hereunder:
Rice
-    optimal time of sowing;
-    use of good seed of the most promising selection or a mixture
of selections;
-    Achievement of a g2od stand with 100,000 hills per acre to get
200 panicles per m ;
-    hand weeding to be started within a week after germination and
to be repeated every 2 weeks;
-    application of the recommended level of nitrogenous fertilizer;
and
-    if possible, low cost water control measures by means of
improved bunds.
Maize
-    dry season cultivation and ridging or box ridging;
-    optimal sowing time;
-    use of composite or synthetic seed varieties;
-    plant population of 20,000 plants per acre using single
plants spaced 3' x 10", or 3 plants spaced 3' x 2'6";



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 2
early weeding starting one week after sowing or filling
in and repeated every two weeks until the crop closes;
use of fertilizer:  if compound 20.20.0 is used, it must
be applied at the rate of 2.5 g, or half a teaspoon, per
plant into the planthole which should then be half closed
before sowing. If only nitrogenous fertilizer is used half
of it should be applied at the same rate close to the plant
one month after sowing. The second dressing should be done
two months after sowing; and
stooking, i.e., cutting the complete stalks near ground level
at soft dough stage and stacking them upright off the field
which is then cultivated and ridged ready for next year's
crop.
Groundnuts
-    dry season cultivation and ridging or box ridging;
-    optimal sowing time;
-    use of improved Chalimbana or Manipintar seed;
-    plant population of about 25,000 plants per acre (3' x 8");
-    early gapping and early weeding; and
-    sulphur dusting on good farms only.
Cotton
-    early dry season cultivation and ridging or box ridging;
-    optimal sowing time;
-    close spacing 3' x 1', gapped within a week and thinned to
singles 3 weeks after sowing or gapping;
-    weeding starting a week after sowing and repeated every two
weeks until the crop closes;
-    spraying when there are more than one ABW per six plants and
repeated every 10 days; type of insecticide depending on the
major pest or pests;



ANNEX I
Appendix 2
Page 3
early picking and after the last picking clearing by cattle
and goats followed by pulling up and burning of the stalks; and
the use of 1.5 bag sulphate of ammonia per acre on soils where
the growing points develop slowly.
February 15, 1976



ANNEX I
Appendix 3
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Summary of Crop Input Packages
(per acre)
Rainfed Rice
60 lb improved Faya seed, once every three years.
75 kg sulphate of ammonia.
Irrigated Rice
60 lb Blue Belle or Blue Bonnet seed, once every three years.
150 kg sulphate of ammonia.
Maize
22 lb synthetic or composite seed, once every three years.
50 kg sulphate of ammonia.
50 kg NPK 20.20.0.
Groundnuts
60 lb Chalimbana or 70 lb Manipintar seed, once every three years.
Cotton
8 sprays of DDT, sevin and dimethoate.
March 22, 1976



ANNEX I
Table 
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Crop Development  Karonaa Lake Shore-/
Year                                                           0           1           2           3          4           5 and onwards
(1975/76)  (1976/77)  (1977/78)  (1978/79)  (1979/80)  (1980/81 and onwards)
Total Number of Farmers                                      21,100      21,600       22,100    22,700      23,200           23,800
DRYLAND CROPS
'i)  Adopting Farmers                                            2,000       2,500        3,000      3,500      3,500            3,500
UL) Crop Areas, a.
Without Proiect                           ac/farm
Maize                                     1.6           3,200       4,000       4,800      5,600       5,600            5,600
us.Cv5                                   a1.8         3,600      4,500        5,400      6,300       6,300            6,300
Groond.urs                                0.4             800       1,000       1,200      1,400       1,400            1,400
Cotton                                    0.2             400         500          600       700         700              700
With Proiect
Improved mize                             1.0           1,125       1,625       2,125      2,625       3,125            3,500
Improved gro.nd..ts                       1.0           1,125       1,625       2,125      2,625       3,125            3,500
Improved cotton                           1.0           1,125       1,625       2,125      2,625       3,125            3,500
Unimproved cassava                        1.0           4,625       5,125       5,625      6,125       4,625            3,500
(or maize)
(iii)   Cro0  Production,  h ton
Without Project                             lb/ac
Maize                                     800           1,280       1,600        1,920     2,240       2,240            2,240
'ossasv, maize equivalent-'               800           1,440       1,800        2,160     2,520       2,520            2,520
Groundnuts                                300             120         150          180       210         210              210
Coctto                                    300              60          75           90       105         105              105
With Proiect
Mai.e                                   2,200           1,232       1,782        2,332     2,882       3,432            3,850
Groundnuts                                450             252         364         477        589         702              787
Cotton                                    800             450         650          850     1,050       1,250            1,400
Unimproved cas a.a/maize                  800           1,848       2,048       2,248      2,448       L,848            1,400
iv)   Incremental Production. oh ton
Phase I and II Protects
Maize                                                     360         430          500       570         520              490
Groundnuts                                                132         214          297       379         492              577
Cotton                                                    390         575          760       945       1,145            1,295
Phase II Proiect only
Maize                                                     -            70          140       210         160              130
Groundnuts                                                -            82          165       247         360              445
Cotton                                                    -           185          370       555         755              905
RAINFED RICE
(i)   Adooting Farmers                                             2,500      3,250        4,000      4,750       5,500            5,500
(ii)   Area rainfed rice, *c                        ac/farm
(With and Without Project)                  2.0           5,000       6,500       8,000      9,500      11,000           11,000
(iii)    Production, oh ton                          lb/ac
Without Project                           1,600         4,000       5,200        6,400      7,600      8,800            8,800
With Project                              2,400         6,000       7,800        9,600    11,400      13,200           13,200
(iv)      Incremental Phase I and II Projects                      2,000       2,600       3,200      3,800       4,400            4,400
Ineremental,Phaae II only                                 -           600        1,200     1,800       2,400            2,400
IRRIGATED RICE (Phaee I only)                    lb/ac
(i)   Number of Farmers                                             500         500          500       500         500              500
(Ui)   Area under irrigation, ac                                     500       1,000        1,000     l,000       1,000            1,000
(iii)   Area cropped, ae                                              500       1,000        1,250      1,500      1,500            1,500
'tv)   Production, sh ton                            3,000           750       1,500        1,875     2,250       2,250            2,250
1/ CumuIative figures of Phase I and II Projects combined, unless stated otherwise.
2/ Production of one acre unimproved cassava presumed to be equivalent to 800 lb maize.
"arch 1, 1976



MALAW I
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Crop Development, Chitipa Plains
0           1          2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10 and onwards
'enr                                                        (1975/76)  (1976/77)  (1977/78)  (1978/79)  (1979/80)  (1980/81)  (1981/82)  (1982/83)  (1983/84)  (1984/85)  (1985/86 and onwards)
Total N-mber of Farmers                                      12,800      13,100      13,400      13,800      14,200      14,500      14,900      15,300      15,700      16,100         16,500
Existing Areas
(i)  Adopting farmers                                             300        600       1,000    . 1,500        2,100       2,700       3,300       4,000       4,700       5,400          5,400
(ii)  Crop areas, ac                              ac/farm
Without Proiect
Maize, of which                          2.5            750       1,500      2,500       3,750       5,250       6,750       8.250      10,000      11,750      13,500         13,500
intercropped with beans 2/3        1.6                 480         960       1,600       2,400       3,360       4,320      5,280        6,400       7,520       8,640          8,640
intercropped with groundnuts 1/3 0.9                   270         450         900       1,350       1,890       2,430      2,970        3,600       4,230       4,860          4,860
Canssava                                1.0            300         600       1,000       1,500      2,100       2,700       3,300       4,000       4,700       5,400           5,400
Millet                                   0.5            150         300         500        750       1,050       1,350       1,650       2,000       2,350       2,700           2,700
With Proiect
Maize. composite                         1.0            300         600      1,000       1,500       2,100       2,700       3,300       4,000       4,700       5,400          5,400
Maize, local improved                    1.0            300         600       1,000      1,500       2,100       2,700       3,300       4,000       4,700       5,400          5,400
Beans, improved                         0.5             150         300        500         750       1,050       1,350       1,650       2,000       2,350       2,700          2,700
Groundnuts, Chalimbana, ieproved        0.5             150         300         500        750       1,050       1,350       1,650       2,000       2,350       2,700          2,700
Cassava, unimproved                     0.5             150        300         500         750       1,050       1,350       1,650       2,000       2,350       2,700          2,700
Millet, unimproved                       0.5            150         300         500        750       1,050       1,350       1,650       2,000       2,350       2,700          2,700
(iii)   Production, sh ton                        lb/ac
Without Proiect
Maize                                 600               225         450         750      1,125       1,575       2,025       2,475       3,000       3,525       4,050          4,050
Cassava, maize equivalent             800               120        240         400         600         840       1,080       1,320       1,600       1,880       2,160          2,160
Beans                                 125                30          60         100        150         210         270         330         400         470         540             540
Groundnuts                            200                27          45         90         135         189         243         297         360         423         486            486
Millet                                 500               37          75         125        137         262         337         412         500         587         675             675
With Pro0ect
Maize, composite                     2,400              360         720       1,200      1,800       2,520       3,240       3,960       4,800       5,640       6,480          6,480
Maize, local                         2,200              330         660       1,100      1,650       2,310       2,970       3,630       4,400       5,170       5,940           5,940
Cassava                                800              60          120        200         300         420         540         660         800         940       1,080          1.080
Beans                                  400               30          60         100        150         210         270         330         400         470         540             540
Groundnuts                             500               33          60         105        163         233         308         383         465         553         640            675
Millet                                 500               37          75         125        137         262         337         412         500         587         675             675
(iv)   Incremental, Phase I aod IT Projects
Maize                                                   405         810       1,350      2,025       2,835       3,645       4,455       5,400       6,345       7,290           7,290
Groundnuts                                                6          15          15          33         52          65          86         105          130         154            189
Incremental. Phase II only
Maize                                                   -           405         945       1,620      2,430       3,240       4,050       4,995       5,940       6,885           6,885
Groundnuts                                              -             9           9         27          46          59          80          99         124          148            183
Expanded Crop Areas
(i)   Pairs of Omen
New                                                     -            33          67         100        100          100         100         100         100         -              -
Cumulative                                              100         133        200         300         400         500         600         700         800          800            800
(ii)   Increased crop areas, a0c                 sc fasr
Maize.composite                           2             350         466         666       1,000      1,400       1,800       2,200       2,600        3,000       3,200          3,200
Groundnuts, manipintar                    2             350         466         666      1,000       1,400       1,800       2,200       2,600       3,000       3,200           3,200
(iii)   Production, sh ton                          lb/an
Maize                                  2,4r,            420         559         799       1,200       1,680      2,160       2,640       3,120        3,600       3,840          3,840
Groundnuts o52'                                          92         122         175        263         368         473         578         683          788         840            840
(iv)     Incremental, Phase IT only
Maize    '                                                           79         319         720       1,200      1,680       2,160       2,640        3,120       3,360          3,360
Groundnuts                                              -            17          70         158        263         368         473         578          683         735            735
1/ Cueulative figures of Phase I sod II Protects combined, -nless stated otherwise.
February 10, 1976



MALAVI
KABONGA RURAL DEVELOPMEPT PROJECT - PHASE II
Projected Seasonal Input Requirements
0          1           2           3           4          5           6           7           8           9          lo and ou wards
Year                                          (1975/76)  (1976/77)  (1977/78)  (1978/79)  (.979/80)  (1980/81)  (1981/82)  (1982/83)  (1983/84)  (1984/85)  (1985/86 and onwards)
Karonga
Rainfed rice
- Seed, sh ton                                     80         100         120        145         165         110         110         110        l1         110               110
- Sulohate of ammonia, m ton                      415         490        600         715         825         825         825         825        825         825               825
Irrigated rice (Lufira)
- Seed, sh ton                                     15          15         20          20          15          15          15          15          15          15               15
- Sulphate of ammonia, m ton                       75         150         19o        225         225         225         225         225        225         225               225
Maize
- Composite or synthetic seed, sh ton               6           9          12         14          17          19          13          13          13          13               13
- Sulphate of ammonia, m ton                       56          81         106        131         156         175         175         175         175        175               175
- Compound 20.20.0 fertilizer, m ton               56          81         106        131         156         175         175         175         175        175               175
Chalimbana groundnuts
- Seed, sh ton                                     23          33          43         53          63          70          47          47          47          47               47
Cotton, number of one-acre insecticide
packages J                                   1,125      1,625       2,125       2,625       3,125       3,500       3,500      3,500       3,500       3,500             3,500
Chitipa
Maize
- Seed, sh ton                                      4           6           9         14          19          25          30          36          42          47               32
- Sulphate of ammonia, m ton                       48          83         133        200         280         360         440         530         620        700               700
- Compound 20.20.0 fertilizer, mton                48          83         133        200         280         360         440         530         620        700               700
Chalimbana groundnuts
- Seed, sh ton                                      3           6          10         15          21          27          33          40          47          54               36
Manipintar groundruts
- Seed, sh ton                                      6           8          12         18          25          32          39          46          53          56               37
Totals
Seeds, sb ton
- Rice                                             95         115         140        165         180         125         125         125         125         125              125
- Maize                                            10          15          21         28          36          44          43          49          55          60               45
- Chalimbana groundnuts                            26          39          53         68          84          97          80          87          94         101               83
- Manipintar groundnuts                             6           8          12         18          25          32          39          46          53          56               37
Fertilizer, m ton
- Sulphate of amsonia                             594         804       1,029      1,271       1,486       1,585       1,665       1,755      1,845        1,925            1,925
- Compound 20.20.0                                104         165         239        331         436         535         615         705         795         875              875
Cotton, insecticide packages                    1,125       1,625      2,125       2,625       3,125       3,500       3,500       3,500      3,500        3,500            3,500
j/Only the quantities of fresh, improved seeds are included;  these would be supplied every third year and during the other two years,seeds
would be retained by the farmers from their own production.
Seed rates, lb/ac                  Fertilizer rates, kg/ac
Rice                    60         Rainfed rice      75  kg sulphate of ammonia
Maize                   22         Irrigated rice   150 kg sulphate of ammonia
Chalimbana groundnuts  80          Maize             50  kg sulphate of ammonia and 50 kg ccmpound 20.20.0
Manipintar groundnuts  70
Based on 8 sprays with sevin, DDT and dimethoate per acre.
February 23, 1976
Lw).



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Livestock Development
General
1.        There are about 625,000 cattle in Malawi.  Some 20,000 are in
Government or private estates or ranches and the balance are kept in
village herds on customary land. The national herd is small relative to
the human population of around five million, particularly in the Southern
Region, where there are 29 people to each animal. The people/cattle ratio
is about 6.5 in the Central Region and 3.3 in the Northern Region. This
results in a much stronger demand and better market for slaughter cattle
in the Southern and Central Regions. The Cold Storage Company operates
the only two modern abattoirs near the main urban centers of Lilongwe and
Blantyre, and offers premium prices for choice cattle. Stall feeding based
on maize stover and madeya (maize bran) has been successfully developed,
particularly around Lilongwe, and its rate of expansion is limited by the
supply of feeder cattle. Under these circumstances the objective of KRDP
should be to increase the productivity of the village herds and output of
young feeder cattle for fattening closer to the southern markets.
Phase I Performance
2.        The aim of the livestock component of Phase I was, first, to
improve animal health through construction of 22 new dip tanks and expan-
sion of veterinary services by increasing field staff and supplies of drugs
and vaccines. Second, to increase production by improving animal husbandry
practices through expanded extension efforts and, third, to improve market-
ing facilities and opportunities for the sale and movement of cattle to
the south.
3.        In 1971, 75% of the 30,000 head of cattle in Karonga district were
within a radius of five miles from the existing 11 dip tanks. In contrast,
less than 25% of the 25,000 cattle in Chitipa district were within five miles
of the 8 dip tanks at that time. Twelve new dips were completed by mid 1974,
which increased the percentages of cattle within 5 mile radius to 88% for
Karonga and 52% for Chitipa. The remaining 10 dip tanks are scheduled for
completion by March 1976, which will mean that 90% of the cattle in the whole
project area are within 5 miles of dip tanks. Apart from tick-borne diseases,
controlled through regular dipping, progress has been made in reducing the
incidence of internal parasites, and an outbreak of foot and mouth disease
from Tanzania has been controlled in late 1975 by inoculation and quarantine.



ANNEX 2
i'age 2
4.        The figures in Table 1, compiled by the Veterinary Department from
the cattle registers for each district, show that from 1965 to 1972, before
any project influence, total cattle numbers for Karonga had increased grad-
ually from about 27,000 head to 31,000 head. In Chitipa there was a decline
from 28,500 to 25,000 head. However, from 1973 to August 1975, there has been
a substantial increase in cattle numbers for both districts, viz: from about
58.000 to 70,000 head. Collection of statistical information under closer
supervision provided by project staff is probably better than in the past,
but figures for 1974 and 1975 are only preliminary. The recent increase in
cattle numbers does suggest that improved health services will have a major
impact on cattle numbers, although border crossings to and from Zambia and
Tanzania, which are thought to be considerable, may have confused the picture.
No clear trend is shown in percentage productivity but offtake figures are
known to be unreliable.
5.        Extension services, particularly on animal health and nutrition,
are largely provided by Veterinary Assistants who are usually stationed at,
and in charge of, a dip tank. Veterinary and animal husbandry staff was
increased under Phase I from 25 Veterinary Assistants supervised by two
Assistant Livestock officers, to 29 Veterinary Assistants and 6 Development
Assistants, supervised by an expatriate Senior Animal Husbandry officer and
four Assistant Livestock officers. The Karonga livestock center has also
played a useful role in trial, demonstration and extension. Farmers in
general appear to be receptive to the lines of extension worked out by the
Senior Animal Husbandry officer, which will continue to be given increasing
emphasis during Phase II.
6.        Phase I proposals envisaged setting up a further 4 cattle markets.
A market which had been opened in 1968 at Nthalire in south Chitipa had been
an immediate success with sales of more than 1,000 per annum by 1972. Nthalire
has road access to the south which permitted the Cold Storage Company, the
LLDP Ranch and other southern buyers to operate for both slaughter and feeder
cattle. A second market opened in 1969 in north Chitipa was not a success
because of poor road access to the south and higher cattle prices available
across the borders in Tanzania and Zambia. The first markets in Karonga,
which were opened at Kasowa in 1972 and N'gara in 1973, failed to attract
cattle. Poor access discouraged southern buyers, and farmers obtained high
prices from local butchers.  Construction of additional markets would be un-
wise until there is better access to the south. This might be either by
improvement of the road link across the escarpment south of Chilumba, or by
barge from Chilumba to Chipoka. Unfortunately, the design of the new barge
now being assembled does not seem to be suitable for cattle transport. No
further marketing proposals are made for Phase IT.
7.        The holding ground-cum-ranch of 18,000 acres proposed for P'hase I
is not being developed. Further investigation showed thie land to be unsuit-
able for ranching; foundation stock were unavailable because the Dzalanyama
ranch of LLD[I warranted priority in purchase of breeding stock in critically



ANNEX 2
Page 3
short supply; and, third, the failure to develop marketing facilities away
from Nthalire removed the need for a cattle holding ground. In lieu of the
holding ground, a small seasonal hill grazing scheme has been established
at Chisi to relieve grazing pressure on the Lufira irrigation rice scheme on
Karonga Lake shore. In addition, a livestock trial and demonstration center
is being established at Lufita in north Chitipa under Phase I provisions.
It is planned for completion during 1975/76 but it is possible that work will
continue into 1976/77. The Lufita triangle of 30,000 acres has about 15% of
dambo (poorly drained land good for dry season grazing), 10%l cultivated and
75% not yet cultivated. Part of the latter area is being developed under the
Lufita agricultural scheme. The rest is considered suitable for future devel-
opment of integrated agriculture incorporating livestock in the farming system.
A system acceptable to the local people has yet to be devised and this will
be a primary objective of the livestock center for which an area of approxi-
mately 2,000 acres has been acquired. There is also need for an agricultural
research station for Chitipa district, and this is to be sited with the live-
stock center to facilitate integration of livestock and crop husbandry. The
nearby existing non-residential farmers' training school is to be transferred
to the center as a residential school under Phase II. The foundation herd for
the center will comprise 30 selected zebu-type breeding cows and a bull to be
provided from Government herds.
Phase II Proposals
8.        The objective will continue to be to improve and increase the
village herds and their productivity and to encourage the production and
sale of feeder cattle from areas which are accessible to the south.
9.        Animal Health.  Animal health services will continue to be of
first concern. Dip construction is almost completed and only two more will
be constructed under Phase II at Misuku and Therere. The 43 dip tanks then
in existence, will bring almost all cattle within 5 miles of a dip. The
animal health service will continue under Phase II. However, the main em-
phasis of the livestock component will be encouragement of a higher standard
of animal husbandry made possible by the disease control facilities.
10.       Extension.  Before the start of the first phase project there were
25 animal husbandry and veterinary assistants in the two districts and an
additional 12 posts were created during the first project. They will con-
tinue to work under the advice of an animal husbandry specialist and four
field officers animal husbandry (TO). The livestock centers at Karonga
and Lufita will also play a major role in demonstration of improved animal
husbandry practices. Cattle owners will be encouraged to adopt better
breeding techniques and to improve management and nutrition standards.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       Breeding techniques may be improved along the following lines:
(i) to cull unproductive stock, particularly barren cows,
unthrifty young stock and bulls in excess of requirements;
(ii) to keep only selected bulls and, to the extent practicable,
herd them separately from the cows except between January
and April. This would encourage the optimum time of calving
towards the end of the dry season and help to reduce calf
mortality;
(iii) to exchange bulls between areas to reduce the present high
level of inbreeding.
12.       Nutrition.  The main scope for improving nutritional levels is
through introduction of rotational grazing in the communal grazing areas.
Fencing is too expensive, so grazing will have to be controlled by closing
demarcated areas for agreed periods. The value of rotational grazing will
not be evident for some years and farmer acceptance and adherence will only
be maintained if influencial leaders are convinced of the advantages. This
should be the main objective for the extension officers and early trials and
demonstrations should be commenced on the dambo lands of the Lufita livestock
center. As liveweight losses occur mostly in the last two months of the drv
season, those groups who appreciate the value of rotational grazing will be
encouraged to plant a legume, either stylo or leucaena, on a proportion of
their grazing land.
(i) Stylo: Evidence from existing stylo plots suggests that it
germinates very well in the area and that it could be introduced over a period
of three years, seed collected from the first year sowing being used for ex-
pansion during the second year and so on, thus reducing the overall capital
costs. The improved areas, which ideally should be sited near the dry season
water supplies, will be lightly grazed in the early rains and then held over
as standing hay for short-time grazing (2-3 hours per day) during September,
October and November. The cost of seed is, however, relatively high. In
1974 the cost was MK 5 per lb and the minimum sowing rate is 2 lb per acre.
Its feasibility, therefore, depends on the farmers collecting seed from an
initial small area for subsequent expansion.
(ii) Leucaena: This can be used as an alternative legume to solve
the weight loss problem. Its main advantage over stylo is cost, i.e. MK 2
per 1,000 stubs, and it is proposed to establish leucaena plots at every dip
tank in the first year of Phase II. These will be 1/4-1/2 acre in size. The
further establishment of leucaena plots elsewhere in the Project area would
make the legume accessible to all farmers eventually. Leucaena has thrived
and yielded well, but for its successful establishment the seeds, which have
a very hard coat, should be scarified and inoculation of the soil with rhizo-
bium bacteria is necessary, or, alternatively, soil from beneath existing
leucaena trees should be used.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
13.       Weaner/Yearling System:  This change in management of the herd
should increase the farmer's profit. Grazing pressure sets limits to the
size of the herds, but unproductive cattle are still being kept and others
have to be held for a long time before they are fit to market. It is proposed
to introduce the weaner/yearling system on a pilot scale to demonstrate the
benefits of rearing the young male cattle on a higher plane of nutrition so
that they can be sold at one year or a little older as feeder cattle. The
feeder cattle will not only realize higher prices, but their early quitting
from the herd will enable the farmer to carry more breeding cows and increase
productivity. The calves would be weaned from their dams when about six months
old and on-reared on a high level of nutrition by supplementing their grazing
with maize stover and madeya or leucaena. They should be ready for sale as
feeder cattle at an age of 12 to 15 months. The main market demand will be
from the south where conditions are better for stall fattening. The weaner/
yearling system should, therefore, be initiated in south Chitipa where there
is road access southwards.
14.       Cattle Sheds:  Most cattle are kept overnight in open kraals but
some are provided with roofs. Though the present standard of cattle sheds
is better than in many areas of the country, advice on further improvements
will be given to farmers, and the value of farm manure and its usage will
be stressed.
February 15, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Cattle Numbers, Growth Rate and Offtake, Karonga and Chitipa Districts
1965      1970       1971       1972      1973       1974       1975
Karoriga District
Total Herd                      26,575    28,230    30,188    31,267    32,470    34,600    38,000
Slaughter                        3,096     3,459      3,634      2,823     3,111      2,900      2,053
Offtake %                         11.7      12.2       12.1        9.0       9.3        8.4        5.4
Growth %                          N.A.       N.A.       6.6        4.3       3.8        6.6        9.8
Productivity %                    N.A kj     N.A. 2/   18.7       13.3      13.1       15.0       15.2
Chitipa District
Total Herd                      28,476    24,170    24,370    24,846    25,218    29,400    32,000
Slaughter                        1,140     2,932      2,439      2,788     2,271      1,900      1,581
Market Sales                       -          769       649      1,o89        877       800        800
Total Offtake                    1,140     3,701      3,088      3,877     3,148      2,700      2,381
Offtake %                          4.0      15.3       12.7       15.6      12.5        9.2        7.4
Growth %                          N.A.      N.A.        o.8        1.9       1.5      N.A.         8.8
Productivity                      N.A. 2/  N.AL/       13.5       17.5      14.0      N.A. 2/    16.2
Project Area (Two Districts)
Total Herd                      55,051    52,400    54,558    56,113    57,688    64,ooo    70,000
1/ Preliminary.
2/ Nlot available.
December 5, 1975
CD)



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Agricultural Credit
A. General
1.        Few smallholders are in a position to pay cash for seasonal inputs
and farm implements and the availability of credit facilities is therefore
vital to help them increase their agricultural production. So far, however,
no central agricultural credit institution has been established in Malawi
and credit is handled by a number of agencies mainly attached to specific
projects which cover only a small part of the country.
2.        The credit sections of the four major Regional Development Projects,
namely Lilongwe, Lower Shire, Karonga and Salima, are among the most impor-
tant credit agencies. In each case the project manager is responsible for
credit operations with the assistance of senior credit staff and office and
field support. Close relationship is being maintained with extension staff.
LLDP, which has the largest volume of credit operations, increased its seasonal
lending volume from about MK 500,000 in 1973/74 to MK 700,000 in 1974/75 and
is projected to reach over MK 2.0 million by 1978/79. By then some 55,000
farm families are expected to benefit through this scheme. Medium-term
credits are expected to reach about MK 140,000 by 1978/79. Repayment rates
are very satisfactory.
3.        Several crop development authorities also operate credit schemes,
for example the Kasungu Flue-Cured Tobacco Authority which trains, settles
and finances tobacco growers on 20 acre holdings. Medium and seasonal credit
is given for tobacco and rotation crops. Administrative arrangements are
efficient and include bulk purchase of inputs, supervision, and full control
of market outlets which ensures repayment. Crop authorities with expert
knowledge of production and control of marketing, have special advantages
in administration of credit to their growers.
4.        Credit is also extended to 19 settlement schemes primarily intended
for Malawi Young Pioneers who, however, have increasingly been replaced by
local farmers. Medium and seasonal credit amounting to about MK 150,000
was available in 1974/75 from the Settlement Credit Fund administered by
MANR. Due to inadequate supervision and social and political problems re-
lated to settlement, including abandonment of holdings, repayment records
have been poor in most schemes. Other schemes with credit facilities admin-
istered by HANR from UK funds include Phalombe Plain, Mpenu, and West Mzimba
land development projects.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The Government Loans Board (GLB) under the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Tourism, handles credit for agriculture and commercial enter-
prises. Just over one half of the presently available fund of about
MK 440,000 is used for the agricultural sector and handled by MANR exten-
sion staff. GLB introduced seasonal credit (MK 2,000) in its operations in
1972/73 and demand increased rapidly. In 1974/75 loans amounting to
MK 54,000 were approved and repayment by the end of the harvest season was
90%. For 1975/76 requests for MK 103,000 have been received. Due to admin-
istrative constraints, seasonal credit is given only to farmer groups. Con-
ditions are that the groups should be formed by the farmers themselves, that
they have operated for a minimum of two years and that a committee of group
members is responsible for recovery of funds. Experience so far is very
encouraging. Part of GLB's activities are at present in Chitipa district,
but KRDP will take over the Chitipa operations from GLB in the 1975/76
season.
B. Karonga Rural Development Project
Phase I
6.        Although the volume of credit disbursements is behind the original
schedule because of the late project start, the number of farmers participa-
ting in the credit scheme has increased faster than expected. At appraisal
it was estimated that the 1974/75 seasonal credit would amount to MK 90,000
for 2,400 farmers, whereas in fact 4,000 farmers participated for a total of
MK 60,000. The reason for this is an early change in approach. Not only
farmers in the schemes are eligible for credit, but farmers outside the scheme
are also encouraged to participate. The project procures seasonal inputs
through ADMARC and provides it to participants in kind. The farmers are
registered at an ADMARC market through which produce is sold. At the time of
harvest KRDP credit assistants collect each time a predetermined percentage of
the sales proceeds so that by the end of the season all advanced monies are
received back. Repayment rates have been very good in the past. For the 1974/
75 season repayments started at a slower rate due to a bad harvest, but project
management is confident that the average collection rate of 95% will be main-
tained. Defaulters do not receive new credit until all outstanding debts are
settled. Up to the 1974/75 season a "credit charge" of 10% plus a "10% mark-
up" was added to the basic cost of seasonal inputs to recover costs of ope-
rating the credit scheme. A new Executive Order has established a flat charge
of 12-1/2% for all seasonal credit throughout the country. Medium-term loans
have been in line with projections, and repayments are fairly good (Table 2).
Phase II
7.        Seasonal Credit.  Seasonal credit would be provided to an estimated
6,300 farmers in Year 1, increasing to 11,000 in Year 4.  Participants in the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
new areas of Chitipa district number 600 in Year 1, increasing to 2,100 in
Year 4 and are included in the above figures. Inputs would only be pro-
vided in kind with a mark-up of 12.5%. It is expected that a system of cash
down-payments would be introduced and that these would rise gradually and
represent 20% of total costs of inputs in Karonga and 15% in Chitipa by
1979/80 (Project Year 4). Group credit would be encouraged where possible.
In Karonga credit has only been given to individuals in the past, partly
because the social structure resists group credit. In the Chitipa plains,
however, many farmers groups have already been established and during the
first years of operation one important function of the Project would be to
assist these groups in keeping proper records. A summary of projected sea-
sonal credit requirements is at Table 1.
8.        Medium-Term Credit.  Medium-term credit would continue to be pro-
vided for various farm implements. Trained oxen and oxcarts to cultivate
fields and transport inputs and produce are much in demand by smallholders
and therefore represent the major items under this category. With the in-
creased activities in Chitipa area the total loan value is expected to rise
from MK 32,000 in 1976/77 to MK 65,600 in 1979/80. Details of the projected
requirements are given in Table 2.
9.        Project Credit Fund.  Table 3 summarizes the cash flow of the two
credit components discussed in the previous paragraphs.
Group Credit
10.       One of the first attempts to issue seasonal inputs to groups of
farmers was made in LLDP in 1971/72. However, it proved that due to the
prevailing low level of literacy LLDP staff spent more time in assisting the
groups than it would have taken to handle individual accounts. Therefore, it
was discontinued. In the meantime, LLDP has started anew, apparently with
much more success, due partly to different procedures in issuing inputs.
In Chitipa, group credit has been given by GLB and the experience so far is
very encouraging. Groups of farmers, which can range between 20-200 or pos-
sibly more members, are governed by elected committees consisting of a chair-
man, a treasurer and a number of farmers which represent the group as one
body. Inputs are made available to the group as a whole, which in turn is
responsible for distribution thereof to its members, maintenance of records
and collection for repayments. Credit staff assists with setting up account-
ing procedures and headquarters keeps only one account per group. Group
members are mutually responsible for repayment by all members and experience
has shown that effective pressure is applied by the group on members who are
late in repayment. An additional safeguard is the fact that no member is
eligible for new credit unless the group as a whole has repaid its total
obligations. In the past there was no legal tie in group arrangements. How-
ever, it is now proposed that the authorization form for group credit will



ANNEX 3
Page 4
be signed by each member, with the status of a promissory note.  In Chitipa
credit would be given to groups only, but in Karonga individual credit will
prevail.
C. Future Organization of Smallholder Credit
11.       A basic concept of NRDP is a change from project-specific manage-
ment to MANR management, as its 40 or more development projects covering
ultimately the whole country come into implementation during the next 15
years or so. This will also apply to credit within existing project areas
where the separate project or agency credit management will be taken over by
MANR and its regional offices. As the ongoing major development projects
terminate, their headquarters will probably serve as new regional offices
under NRDP. Hence, their experienced credit management will continue to
operate, but under closer policy direction and control of MANR headquarters.
On the other hand, the proposed new development projects (Mzimba, Thiwi-
Lifidzi, etc.) will not have sufficient field staff with experience in credit
operations and will have to be managed during an interim period from head-
quarters.
12.       The planned expansion of credit activities necessitates a re-
thinking of credit policies and a committee in MANR is now preparing proposals
for the administration of credit covering ultimately the whole country. It
is evident that some changes are needed. First, it would be unrealistic to
expect that there will ever be the funds and staff to meet the full credit
needs of every small farmer. Priority must be given to lending which will
yield substantial benefits, such as seasonal credit for inputs and medium-term
credit for draft oxen and implements. Priority in seasonal credit should be
given to areas where the response to inputs is known to be high and the
farmers are receptive to innovation. Attention must also be given to credit-
worthiness of borrowers, but this should not be overdone to the extent that
those who receive credit are those who need it least. It should not be freely
extended to farmers who are in a position to pay cash for their inputs.
Farmers in many areas where no credit is presently available have been able to
purchase substantial amounts of fertilizers for cash. Although such farmers
could continue to pay cash, they are likely to be the first to apply for
credit. Credit is such an important tool in encouraging farmers to adopt
improved production practices that it should be available, but every effort
should be made to stimulate sales of inputs for cash. An important move in
this direction would be for ADMARC to reinstate its previous 7-1/2% discount
for cash purchases of fertilizers in bulk. A second means of stimulating cash
sales would be to gradually reduce credit for inputs as the farmers become
better able to pay cash.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.       In addition to increased selectivity, a second needed change in
credit policy is that more effort must be made to place the system on a
self-sustaining basis. The problem lies with the seasonal rather than the
medium-term credit. Individual seasonal credit is so small that mark-up
charges fail to meet the cost of administration. Charges have recently been
stardized at 12-1/2% but the average cost of administration is estimated at
about 25%. The substantial introduction of group credit, it is estimated,
could reduce costs by 10%.
February 15, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT - PHASE II
Estimated Seasonal Credit Requirements
(MK)
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3       Year 4
(1975/76)  (1976/77)  (1977/78) (1978/79)  (1979/80)  (1980/81)  (1981/82)  (1982/83)  (1983/84)  (1984/85)  (1985/86)
Karonga - Maize                                        18,184      26,334     34,484    42,534       50,684      56,850      56,250      56,250      56,250      56,250      56,250
Groundnuts                                   4,600       6,600       8,600    10,600      12,600      14,000       9,400       9,400       9,400       9,400       9,400
Cotton                                      13,500      19,500      25,500    31,500      37,500      42,000      42,000      42,000      42,000      42,000      42,000
Rice                                        83.581      99.560    122.660   145,760    162.300    155.700    155,700    155.700    155,700    155.700    155.700
Total value of inputs                        119,865    151,994    191,244   230,394    263,084    268,550    263,350    263,350    263,350    263,350    263,350
Percentage downpayment by farmers
for inputs sold on credit                     -            5          10         15         20          25          30          30          30          30          30
Credit required for inputs                   119865    144,394 1                            LO467    2         3    184345    184345    184.345    184 345
Chitipa - Maize                                        15,472      26,662     42,662    64,200       89,820    115,540    141,160    170,020    198,880    224,500    223,000
Groundnuts                                   1,680       2.640       4.160     6.240       8.700      11.160      13,620      16,280      18,940      20.880      13,860
Total value of inputs                         17,152      29,302      46,822    70,440       98,520    126,700    154,780    186,300    217,820    245,380    236,860
Percentage downpayment by farmers
for inputs sold on credit                      -           -             5        10          15        20          25          25                       5          -D
Credit required for inputs                    17,152      29,302      44 48      63         83.742    101 360    116,0855                              184.035  1765
Total credit requlired for inputs                     137,017    173,696    216,601   259,249    294,209    302,773    300,430           324,070   347,710    368,380    361,990
Percentage markup                             12.5         12.5       12.5       12.5        12.5        12.5        12.5         12.5      12.5         12.5        12.5
Volume of seasonal credit repayments 2/   154,144    195,408    243,676   291,655    330,985    340,620    337,984   v364,579    391,174    414,428    407,239    |
aX
1/   Based on input quantities as given in Annex 1, Table 3, and on 1976 prices
Repayments will only be received in the following year
Mareb 2, 1976



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Medium-Term Credit Requirements
(MK)
1/                                                Year  1          Year  2            Year  3            Year  4
Unit Cost      1973/74    1974/75           1975/76         (1976/77)         (1977/78)         (1978/79)          (1979/80)        (1980/81)        (1981/82)
Karonga
Oxen (pairs)                     100          (65)         (40)      (50)  5,000    (50)   5,000    (50)   5,000           (50)  5,000        (50)  5,000      (25)  2,500   (25)  2,500
Ox-Carts                         300          (11)         (18)      (25)  7,500    (30)   9,000    (40)  12,000           (50) 15,000        (50) 15,OOC      (25)  7,500   (25)  7,500
Ploughs and Chains                30        (55 + 39) (27 + 35)    (50)  1,500    (75)   2,250    (75)   2,250             (75)  2,250        (75)  2,250      (38)  1,125   (38)  1,125
Ridgers                          45            (8)         (16)      (25)  1,125    (30)   1,350    (30)   1,350           (30)  1,350        (30)  1,350      (15)    675   (15)    675
Sprayers                          35          (58)    (19 + 119)  (150)  5,250   (150)   5,250   (150)   5,250            (150)  5,250       (150)  5,250      (75)  2,625   (75)  2,625
sub-total                               11,225    12,329              20,375           22,850            25,850             28,850             28,850            14,425         14,425
Chi tiPa
Oxen (pairs)                     100                                                  (25)   2,500    (50)   5,000         (75)  7,500        (75)  7,500       (75)  7,500   (75)  7,500
Ox-Carts                         300                                                  (15)   4,500    (30)   9,000         (50) 15,000        (75) 22,500       (75) 22,500   (75) 22,500
Ploughs and Chains                30                                                  (50)   1,500   (100)   3,000        (150)  4,500       (150)  4,500    (150)  4,500  (150)  4,500
Ridgers                           45                                                  (15)     675    (30)   1,350         (50)  2,250        (50)  2,250       (50)  2,250   (50)  2,250
sub-total                                                                                9,175           18,350             29,250             36,750            36,750         36,750
Total Loan Value                             g12.3    2                   20 __     3 7          2.           44.200             58,100                               51.175         51.175
Add 10% p.a. interest 2/                                                    4,278            6,725             9,282             12.201             13,776            10.747         10.747
Amounts to be repaid by
farmers                                                 24.5342                                                             70 301             79.376            6  922
Spread of Repayments over 3 years                        2,700 3/           4,340            4,340             4,767            X  ,217             12,916            17,827         23,433
4,768            4,767             8,218               : ,917           17,827           23,434          26,459
8.218           12.917             .828               23,434            26,459          20.641
2,700 3/          9,108            17,325            25,902             38,962            54,177            67,720          70,533
_                   _                                .-_                                         .                                          "w1O
1/   Estimate at 1976 prices
2/   Interest at 10% p.a. on unpaid balance
3/ Based on Project Management estimates
March 2. 1976.



MALAW i
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJ_C(i - 'i iASI It
Total Credit Cash Flow
(MK '000)
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4
(1974/75)   (1975/76)   (1976/77)  (1977/78)   (1978/79)   (1979/80)   (1980/81)  (1981/82)
Sources of Fund
Unspent balance brought forward        1.0 1/
New Funds required                    46.4        84.1        42.9         50.6        48.7         31.2
Loan Repayments:
Seasonal                           24.0 1/    68.1        154.1        195.4       243.7       291.7        331.0       340.0
Medium-term                         2.7 1/      9.1        17.3         25.9        39.0         54.2        67.7       _70.5
26.7        77.2       171.4        221.3       282.7       345.9        398.7       411.1
Less bad debts 2/                      1.3          3.9         8.6        11.1         14.1        17.3         19.9        20.6
25.4        73.3       162.8        210.2       268.6       328.6        378.8       390.5
Funds available for lending           72.8       157.4        205.7       260.8       317.3        359.8       378.8        390.5
Utilization of Funds
Seasonal                              60.5       137.0        173.7       216.6       259.2        294.2       302.8        300.4
Mediuim-term                          12.3        20.4         32.0        44.2         58.1        65.6         51.2        51.2
Loans required                        72.8       157.4        205.7       260.8       317.3        359.8       354.0        351.6
Unspent balance                         -            -           -           -            -           -          24.8        38.9
72.8       157.4       205.7        260.8       317.3       359.8        378.8       390.5
Contingencies
57. phbYsical                                                  10.3        13.0         15.9        18.0
216.0       273.8       333.2        377.8
Price contigencies  3/                                         19.4        46.5        86.6        136.0
Total Loans required                                      235.4        320.3       419.8        513.8
1/  Based on Phase [ project records.
2/  57. of seasonal and mediutm-term credit.
3/  97. vear 1, 87. year 2-4.
Februar- 24, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Crop Marketing and Prices
1.        The main crops marketed in Karonga and Chitipa are rice, maize,
groundnuts, cotton, coffee and pulses. The Agricultural Development and
Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) handles a large share of the agricultural
output of both districts and buys in effect all cotton and coffee and
almost all marketable rice. Although ADMARC is empowered to purchase all
produce grown on customary land, a large amount of the other crops is
either sold or bartered among the farmers themselves or sold to traders.
During the last few years this was particularly the case with groundnuts,
since the unofficial prices which traders were willing to pay exceeded
ADMARC's guaranteed minimum price at least two or three times. Of Chitipa's
marketable maize ADMARC buys only small amounts which it subsequently sells
in Chitipa town. In Karonga, ADMARC hardly purchases any maize at all but
at two locations it sells maize which is being imported from other parts
of the country. Due to the isolated location of the two districts there is
a significant amount of border traffic with neighboring Zambia and Tanzania.
Since, obviously, no records of private barters or sales exist it is diffi-
cult to estimate the volume of crop produce involved. The quantities pur-
chased by ADMARC over the last five years are given in Table 1.
ADMARC
2.        ADMARC was established in 1971 to take over the responsibilities of
the former Farmers Marketing Board (FMB). It has the statutory respon-
sibility of purchasing, processing and disposing of agricultural produce
except for estate grown tea, tobacco and sugar. In fact ADMARC does not,
and often cannot, exercise its right to purchase all crop surplus, allowing
farmers to barter and sell amongst themselves. ADMARC's responsibilities also
include the maintenance of food reserves to meet possible local shortages, the
supply at cost or at subsidized prices of agricultural equipment and farm
inputs, and limited marketing of petroleum products. ADMARC operates within
the framework of general and special Government policy with the twin objective
of ensuring a reasonable return to the farmers and to earn surpluses to
support national development programs. ADMARC is responsible to the Minister
of Agriculture and Natural Resources. It is, however, autonomous in its day
to day operations and enjoys the full measure of financial and administrative
independence necessary to enable it to exercise its functions as a commercial
trading enterprise.
3.        ADMARC recommends and the Government determines each year before
the start of the new growing season guaranteed minimum prices for all crops
which are uniform for the whole country. Usually this is done in September or



ANNEX 4
Page 2
October and farmers are encouraged to choose the crops which would give them
the best return. The prices may be increased in the course of the harvestinq
season (about April) if world market values have increased in the meantime L.kw
such corrections have in fact rarely been made. During the last few years the
export values of most agriculture commodities have increased, but since the
growers' prices are announced almost a year before ADMARC actually sells the
produce the increases in growers' prices have tended to lag behind. Determin-
ing guaranteed prices involves, of course, certain risks but the increasing
volumes of crops marketed outside the official ADMARC channels suggests that
the Government may have been too cautious. The steep rise in the prices of
fertilizers had an adverse effect on the relationship between gross returns
and costs per acre, particularly for maize during the 1974/75 season (Table
3). The growers' share of the net sales value of crops purchased, which was
on average 58% between 1969/70 - 1972/73, declined to 48% in 1973/74 and to
47% in 1974/75 (Table 4). The announced increases in minimum prices for the
1975/76 growing season (Table 2), amounting to 29% for maize and 7% - 12% for
most other crops, are therefore justified and are expected to be high enough to
maintain the farmers incentives. On the basis of international prices there
seems to be room for further increases, however, especially for groundnuts
and cotton.
4.        ADMARC's annual net surpluses on crop trading have meanwhile in-
creased substantially and reached MK 11.1 million in 1974/75. Tobacco con-
tributed 44% to the net surplus (32% in 1973/74) and cotton 28% (18% in
1973/74). The contribution of maize to the 1974/75 net surplus was only 2%
(19% in 1973/74). All net surpluses are transferred to the reserves. ADMARC's
crop trading account and profit and loss account for 1974/75 and its balance
sheet as of March 31, 1975 are in Tables 5, 6 and 7 respectively.
5.        Under the Project ADMARC would construct nine permanent markets,
combined with facilities to store and distribute farm inputs, as well as eight
small input sheds in the Karonga-Chitipa area. It is obvious that ADMARC's
efficiency and financial viability are important factors for guaranteeing a
minimum return to the farmers from their crops. A certain amount of border
trade is likely to continue in the Karonga and Chitipa districts since
ADMARC cannot be expected to be able to compete with private traders for
all crops at all times. But it is important that ADMARC should continue to
work in the interest of the smallholders, including those living in isolated
areas, and the timely availability of inputs as well as guaranteed reasonable
minimum prices for the crops are essential for the success of the Project.
Crop Exports
6.        Rice.  Volumes and values of Malawi's recent rice exports are as
follows:
1969    1970   1971   1972   1973   1974
Volume, sh ton                 3,483   3,064  5,701  7,881  15,350 12,202
Value, MK'000                    265      548    956  1,092   2,550  3,700
Average price, MK/sh ton          76      179    168    139       166    303



ANNEX 4
Page 3
More than two third of exports were in the past to Rhodesia but more recently
both Zambia and South Africa have purchased increasing quantities. At the
present time the quantities that could be readily sold in these two countries
exceed supply and South Africa, which traditionally imports its rice from the
USA, offers the largest market. Malawi is given privileged tariff treatment
in the Rhodesian market and to a maximum of 2,000 m ton this is also the case
in South Africa. The import into Zambia is open to all countries, with the bulk
of imports coming from Thailand. Before being exported, Malawi's rice is
milled in one of the three rice mills which are operated by the National Oil
Industries Limited (NOIL). The company, in which ADMARC has a 50% ownership,
and thus effective control, mills the paddy on behalf of ADMARC at a fixed
fee. One of the mills is located at Chilumba, in Karonga district. It has an
annual capacity of 7,200 sh ton which is insufficient to mill the entire Karonga
rice production, currently estimated at about 8,000 sh ton. Some paddy is there-
fore shipped to the new mill in Nkhotakota where spare capacity exists. A pro-
ject for a new mill at Kambwe, 5 miles north of Karonga, has been prepared but
no financing has as yet been secured.
7.        Cotton.  Recent exports of cotton lint were as follows:
1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974
Volume, sh ton                    4,205  9,158  5,313  5,277  2,730  2,745
Value, MK'000                     1,729  2,777  2,547  2,567  1,900  2,700
Average price, MK'000/sh ton        411    303    479    486    696  1,000
Exports were predominantly to three countries: United Kingdom, Rhodesia and
South Africa. Malawi produces a variety of cotton, Albar 637, with a strong
medium-to-long staple, which is suitable for modern spinning requirements, but
has a low ginning percentage. The crop is grown entirely by smallholders, and
is susceptible to erratic weather conditions, particularly in the main pro-
ducing area, the Lower Shire Valley, in the south of the country. Seed cotton
production exceeded 24,000 sh ton in 1971 and 1972 but was less than 18,000
sh ton in 1973. Karonga's production, which has steadily increased in the
last few years, accounts for only 1 - 2% of Malawi's total. ADMARC has a con-
tract with a privately owned ginnery at N'gara (southern Karonga) for the gin-
ning of Karonga's cotton. The present capacity is about 600 sh ton of seed
cotton per annum which can easily be expanded when necessary. The cotton
lint produced at N'gara is transported by Lake and rail service to Limbe and
is either exported or sold to a local textile mill, depending on quality and
demand. Between 15 and 20% of the cotton seed produced at N'gara is retained
for seed for the next season's crop. The balance is moved to Blantyre, where
NOIL operates an oil expression plant.
8.        Maize.  Maize exports during recent years were as follows:
1969   1970   1971   1972    1973    1974
Volume, sh ton                 52,144      1  5,073  40,606  47,650  34,170
Value, MK'O00                   2,132      -    411   1,302   3,450    n.a.
Average price, MK sh ton           41      -     81       32       72    n.a.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Most of past exports were to the United Kingdom but more recently an in-
creasing proportion was sold to neighboring countries, Tanzania and
Zambia. Total exports represent only a small part of Malawi's production
since maize is grown as the principal food crop. The annual production
is estimated at 1.2 million sh ton. Production in both Karonga and Chitipa
falls short of requirements and it is estimated that unsatisfied demand may
be about 2,000 sh ton in each district. Part of Karonga's shortfall is
covered by maize which ADMARC supplies from Mzimba or Rumphi, located
farther south in the Northern Region. Because of the high costs of transport
involved ADMARC has, however, not supplied Chitipa district with maize from
other areas. Occasionally, Malawi is forced to import maize because of crop
failures. In 1970, a particularly poor year, 71,700 ton were imported mainly
from Rhodesia and South Africa. The Government's policy in recent years has
been to maintain self-sufficiency in maize. This entails producing a small
margin of surplus to allow for poor harvests, estimated at about 7% of total
national production. In view of the increased prices for maize there is ample
reason for expanding production in certain parts of the country, e.g. areas
particularly suited to maize production such as Lilongwe and Dowa, and in
local deficit areas such as Karonga and parts of Chitipa.
9.        Groundnuts.  About 98% of groundnut production in Malawi is of
Chalimbana type confectionery nuts, which earn a considerable premium over
oil nuts on the export market. Exports of confectionery nuts during recent
years were as follows:
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Volume, sh ton                *37,765  24,814  32,177  39,357  34,230  22,765
Value, MK'000                   5,591   4,241   5,883   7,123   6,707   5,200
Average price, MK/sh ton          148     171      183     181      196     228
Some 85% - 90% of these exports were to the United Kingdom while most of
the balance was sold to the Netherlands in the last decade.  All confectionery
groundnuts purchased by ADMARC are graded into four grades at the factory at
Liwonde which has ample capacity. The crushers, together with the Manipintar
oil nuts, are sold internally for oil expression to a private plant in Limbe.
The domestic demand for nuts for groundnut oil is presently high, and is
expected to expand. Some 4,000 - 5,000 sh ton have been used for crushing in
recent years.
10.       Coffee.  Malawi coffee, which is almost entirely arabica, was at
one time an important export of the country, and in 1908 over 450 sh ton were
exported. Now, it is relatively less important, and in recent years exports
have been less than 250 sh ton per year. Coffee's share in ADMARC's total
annual sales has been less than one half of one percent in each of the last
five years. The volume and values of coffee exports during recent years
were as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
1969    1970   1971    1972   1973   1974
Volume, sh ton                   199     150    255      163      180   218
Value, MK'000                    100     102    161       84      140   n.a.
Average price, MK/sh ton         501     677    714      514      778   n.a.
The traditional export market is South Africa, although in recent years
increasing consignments have been sent to the Middle East and Europe.  Malawi,
as an insignificant producer in world terms, does not subscribe to the Inter-
national Coffee Agreement. Following the dissolution in 1975 of the Small-
holder Coffee Authority, ADMARC has taken over responsibility for the opera-
tion and maintenance of all coffee pulperies, and the purchase of cherry,
tbuni and village-processed parchment coffee from the growers. ADMARC con-
itinues to be responsible for transport of parchment to Limbe, where hulling,
cleaning and grading take place.
February 15, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
ADMARC Cr09 Purchases in Karonga and Chitipa, 1970 - 1974
(sh ton)
19T0       1971       1972        1973       1974
Maronga-
Paddy rice          4,307       5,712      6,214      7,198       8,274
Seed cotton           173          70        198        247         320
Groundnuts            173          20          7         2           13
Maize                 -             2          5        -             1
Chitipa
Maize                 310         343        180        252         444
Groundnuts             12          13         12         17          12
Pulses                  1          18         12         27          36
Coffee 2              111          54         79         73          48
l/ Parchment coffee. 
Source: ADMARC
January 15, 1976



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMKT PROJECT - PHASE II
ADMARC Prices for Selected Crops, 19TL|12 - 1975/76 (tambala/lb)
1971/72     1972/73     1973/74     1974/75      1975/76 1/
Maize                           1.25         1,25        1,25        1,75         2,25
Cotton, grade A                 5.5          5.5         6.o         8.0         8.5
Groundnuts 4
- Chalimbana, GDA               6.o         6.0          6.5         8.0          8.5
- Malimba, Manipintar           4.0          4.0         5.0         6.5         7.0
Paddy, grade A                  3.33         3.33        3.33        4.0o         4.5
Beans                           4.o          4.o         4.0      -  5.0          5.5
Coffee                          3.33         3.33        3.75        4.o           3/
1[ Announced September 29, 1975 to become ef$eetive Qn April 1, 1976
4  Shelled
3 Not yet announced.
Source: ADMARC
January 15, 1976
&10



ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Budget for 1 Acre of Maize; Yield 2,4oo lb
(MK)
1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76
Income
Official maize price per sh ton   25.00    25.00    35.00    45.00
Gross Return per ac                30.00    30.00    42.00    54.00
Costs
1 bag CAN                           3.30      3.30     8.50      8.50
1 bag 20.20.0                       3.45      3.45     9.00      9.00
22 lb synthetic maize seed,         1.10      1.10     1.10      1.10
Sub-total                      7.85      7.85    18.60    18.60
Credit charge: %                   10.00    10.00    10.00    12.50
MK                   0.79     0.79      1.86     2.33
Total costs                    8.64      8.64    20.46    20.93
Margin                             21.36    21.36    21.54    33.07
Benefit/Cost ratio                 3.5/1    3.5/1    2.1/1    2.6/1
March 1, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
ADMARC Crop Trading Accounts, 1970/71 - 1974/75
1969/70          1970/71          1971/72          1972/73          1973/74           1974/75
MK'000    %.        MK'00  %      MK 00O    %      MK'000    %      MK'000    %       MKo000    %
Purchase of Crops                              10,074    56    13,538    65    13,959    51    16,477    58    14,343    48    17,157    47
Buying and direct expenses                      3,110    17      3,727    18      3,992    15      4,943    17       6,036    20      7,114    19
Administrative expenditure                        878      5       908      4       911      3        857     3      1,448      5     1,281      4
Net profit on crop trading                      3,977    22      2,659    13      8,714    31      6,327    22       8,112    27    11,148    30
Net sales value of crops purchased             18,039   100    20,832   100    27,576   100    28,604   100    29,939   100    36,700   100
Sales of crops                                 19,175           21,084           27,612           29,226            33,479           38,042
Selling expenses                                  847              926              901            1,652             2,271            2,176
Sales less selling expenses                    18,328           20,158           26,711           27,574            31,208           35,866
Movement of stock - increase(decrease)           (289)             674              865            1,030            (1,269)             834
Net sales value of crops purchased             18,039           20,832           27,576           28,604            29,939           36,700
Source: ADMARC
January 15, 1976                                                                                                                                          z



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation - Crop Trading Account for the Year 4nded 31t March, 1975
GENERAL
COTTON     3ROLNONUTS      TOBACCO        NAIZE        RICE        CASSAVA    PAoDuJCE                   TOTAL
SALES                           7,602,449      7,665,930    10,590,849    5,431,360   3,901,763    399,582   2,449,291                    38,042,222
Deduct: Selling expenses
Auction floor charges and
cess                              -              -           182,957                      -                                                182,957
Insurance                        19,455         66,395         -             5,525        4,586       3,807       10,118                   109,896
Railage, freight and port
charges                         113,487        568,696         -           35913        182,837    150,778       129,106                 1,504,042
Bags, twine and hessian           -            114,731         -           234,z20        -            -         30,718                    379,736
132,952       749,822        182,957      598,950       187,423    154,585      169,942                 2,176,631
SALES LESS SELLING EXPENSES    7,469,497       5,917,108    10,407,890    4,832,410    3,714,340    244,997   2,279,349                   35,865,591
Movement of stock-increase/
(decrease)    720,868         50,919         3,058      (324,313J    (140,150)    41,097       482,772                   834,251
NET SALES VALLE OF CROPS
PLURCHASED                    8,190,365     6,968,027    10,410,948    4,508,097    3,574,190    286,094   2,762,121                    36S699,842
P'JRCHASE OF CROPS              3,413,928      4,524,058     3,362,132    2,858,097    1,577,23D    177,697   1,214,008                   17,157,150
BUYING AND DIRECT.EXPENSES
Marketing                       318,051        376,527       665,323       237,209       225,946      18,154      88,786                 1,929,996
Depot and storage                92,741         30,914        23,185       370,965        23,185     69,556       38,642                   649,188
Bags, twine and hessian         121,547         31,494        28,855        91,004        88,197     10,623       18,938                   390,658
Grading, ginning and baling    509,864         174,910       721,815         -           529,130       -          29,943                 1,965,652
Transport of crops              173,691        505,035       215,693       425,935       320,839         924      72,862                  1,714,979
Fumigation                        7,574          3,632             14       48,306         9,795      9,523       18,743                     97,587
Insurance - cash and crop        10,335         11,365        65681          7,67G        10,605        -                                    50,014
Seed distribution               138,661          3,657        149,996        4,026           652        -            258                    297,252
Research contribution             -             19,000         -             -             _            -                                    19,000
1,372,464     1,156,534      1,811,562    1,165,117    1,208,349    108,780        271,530                 7,114,336
TOTAL PURCHASES AND BLYING
EXPENSEB                      4,786,392      5,680,592     5,173,694    4,073,214    2,785,579    286,477   1,485,538                    26,271,486
GROSS PROFIT/(LOSS)             3,403,973      1,287,435     5,237,254       434,883       788,611        (383)  1,276,583                 12,428,356
NET ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENOITURE   247,109         208,233       325,168       213,37i       217,559      19,585       48,888                 1,280,919
NET PROFIT/(LOSS) ON CROP TRADING
Transferred to profit and
loss account                3,156,864     1,079,202      4,911,086       221,506       571,052    (19,968)  1,227,695                K11,i47,437
Source: ADMARC
January 15, 1976



ANNEx 4
Table 6
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
Profit and Loss Account for the Year Ended 31st March, 1975
(MK)
Profit transferred from crop trading account               11,147,437
Add: Other revenue and profit
Dividend received                                     475,585
Interest received                                   1,789,407
Petroleum products - profit                             7,474
Toleza farm - profit                                   65,818
13,485,721
Less: Other expenses and losses
Fertilizer and farmers aids (net)                     694,589
Viphya Tung Estates - loss                            205,226
Interest on long term loans                         1,031,841
Provision for doubtful debts                          205,000
Coffee authority - contribution                          -
Miscellaneous projects                                233,559
Grants and contributions                              243,459
2,613,674
10,872,047
Less: Grant - Malawi Government                                56,000
10.,816,047
Source; ADMARC
January 15, 1976



AINEX 4
Table 7
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPME3T PROJECT - PHASE II
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
Balance Sheet - 31st March, 1975
(MK)
Fixed Assets                                       9,427,875
Investment and Loans                              15,776,966
Crop Reserve Fund
Local registered stocks                          5,000,000
Cash on deposit
Cash at bank                                      _
5,000.000
Current Assets
Cropstocks and livestock                         2,953,282
Groving crops - development projects               579,208
Stores                                           4,o65,567
Debtors                                          6,680,710
Short term investments                           2,500,000
Cash on deposit                                  2,968,695
Cash at bank and on hand                         7.571.096
27,318,558
Current Liabilities
Creditors and accrued expenses                   2,879,961
Net Current Assets                                24,438,597
54,643,438
Financed by:
Reserves                                        13,039,791
Crop reserve fund                                5,000,000
Working capital account                         26,859,416
Long term liabilities                            9,744,231
54,643,438
Source. ADMARC
January 15, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Health Facilities
A. Background
The Health Situation in Malawi
1.        Malawi shares with most of Africa severe problems in improving
the health standards of its people. Medical services are poor in compari-
son with the more advanced and industrialized countries. This results to a
large extent from scarce financial resources, and is compounded by limited
availability of trained manpower. The main diseases contributing to the high
mortality rate are communicable diseases, water-born diseases and diseases
resulting from malnutrition. Measles, gastro-enteritis, whooping cough,
tuberculosis, respiratory and parasitic infections are therefore quite common.
Malaria is the most important cause of death in young children and is also
responsible for high rates of mortality in school age children and parti-
cularly in the working population. Parasitic infections are believed to be an
important contributory factor to low productivity. In addition, cholera has
recently become endemic.
2.        To spread the limited Government resources equitably throughout the
country is a difficult task. Ninety per cent of the population lives in the
rural areas and emphasis is given to preventive rather than curative treat-
ment. Although the proportion of the Government's recurrent budget for
health expenditures is quite high (about 7.5% in 1974175 1/), the annual
per capita expenditure is only about 80 tambala - or less than US$1.00.
3.        The majority of Government operated facilities are located in the
Southern Region, the other Regions being served primarily by missions. Given
the overall shortage of health care facilities, the role of religious missions
is of great importance. The Private Hospital Association - a federation
of mission authorities - receives a subsidy from Government and has an office
in the Ministry of Health. Of the total hospital beds available in the
country, approximately 45% are operated by missions. Of beds in hospitals
without doctors, 73% are run by missions.
4.        Since private hospitals charge fees for in-patient and sometimes
for out-patient care, occupancy rates are lower - perhaps 50 - 60% as
opposed to about 120% in Government hospitals where -except for a nominal
1/   Source:  IBRD/IDA 1974 Economic Updating Mission



ANNEX 5
Page 2
charge for maternity care, all services are free. Free Government health
care does not seem to lead to profligate dispensation of drugs: the average
patient visit to a Government dispensary costs only 4 tambala for medicines
prescribed.
5.        The preliminary results of a December 1973 study higlights the
shortage of medical and paramedical personnel. There are only 106 medical
officers (MD or equivalent) in the whole country - or one for every 45,000
Malawians - and, of those, 93 are foreigners. Non-Malawians also occupy
heavily other senior medical positions: 47% of State registered nurses,
84% of pharmacists, 42% of laboratory technicians, 67% of radiographers and
63% of dentists.
6.        All doctors are trained abroad, but most nurses and mid-wives
graduate either from the National School of Nursing, Blantyre, or the
Enrolled Nurse Training School, Zomba, or are trained by various missionary
agencies in the rural areas. Medical assistants, who will become of increas-
ing importance in the rural health sub-centers and health posts, are currently
trained at the Medical Assistance Training School in Lilongwe. At present,
about 40 Malawians are abroad for training as doctors and return at the rate
of about 4 per annum. A job description of the various health staff is at
Appendix 1.
7.        In 1971, a World Health Organization (WHO) planning team prepared
a report "National Health Planning, Malawi", which was generally accepted
by Government as a guide to future development of health services in the
country, although some specific recommendations, such as regional decen-
tralization, were rejected. The report proved to be complementary to an
earlier accepted report prepared with the assistance of an IDA consultant.
8.        Some of the more important recommendations of the study included:
(a)  upgrading of health personnel to encourage adequate supply
of staff;
(b)  new and enforceable legislation on the collection of vital
statistics;
(c)  implementation of health laboratory services for control of
specific diseases on a national, regional and district level
including malaria, schistosomiasis, smallpox, veneral diseases,
tuberculosis, leprosy and childhood diseases;
(d)  formulation of new health legislation;
(e)  establishment of a National Health Planning Unit;
(f)  introduction of a cost accounting system to trace expenditures
on individual programs more accurately; and
(g)  the encouragement of lending agencies to include health
components in agricultural development programs.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.        A number of these proposals have already been instituted:  a
National Planning Unit has been established, mass vaccination campaigns
have been initiated and health components have been incorporated in each
of the three IDA supported agricultural projects.
10.       In addition, the WHO report proposed a hierarchy of health facili-
ties consisting of primary health centers, sub-centers and health posts,
based on the principle of the higher units supervising the lower and the
lower referring patients to the higher. At full development each 50,000
people would be served by one primary health center, four health sub-
centers and 20 health posts. A description of the previous and future
structure with its functions is given in Appendix 2.
11.       It is unlikely that the proposed pattern will be fully established
in the near future, since the recurrent costs and staffing needs would place
an impossible burden on the limited resources of the Government.
B. Karonga Rural Development Project
Justification for the Inclusion of a Health Component
12.       Since Rural Development projects are far reaching in their effects,
and demandiRg on the resources of the community, they should not only develop
the physical resources, but also the human resources. One of the objectives
should therefore be the improvement of the working capacity and environment.
13.       The economic value of health expenditures in a country like Malawi
is evident; the problem is to quantify the benefits. Agro-economic surveys
in two villages in north Karonga revealed that considering specific work
categories, 22% of the time was spent for the category "illness" which
includes attending health facilities, visiting and tending sick persons or
participating in funerals. A survey at Hara Irrigation scheme found that
10% of male household heads' and 20% of wives and female household heads'
time was consumed by "illness".
14.       No studies on the effect of ill health have been conducted in
Malawi. However, there is no reason why the situation should be any
different from other countries with similar problems and where surveys have
found a marked correlation between improved health and higher productivity.
Ill health is known to cause weakness, and to contribute to lack of concen-
tration and initiative; available man/days of labor would consequently be
lower. Parasitic infections are widespread and often lead to anemia.
15.       A rough estimate can be made of the economic loss arising from
mortality among school children.   In Chitipa, 1973/74, 10,581 children be-
tween the ages of 6 and 13 were enrolled at primary school. The population
change survey indicates that about 1% of these children will die every year.
Assuming that death is evenly spaced between these ages, those who die, are



ANNEX 5
Page 4
likely to have an average three years of schooling. At a cost of MK 12.0 per
pupil per annum, 2.4% of the annual primary school budget in Chitipa will be
wasted.
16.       The establishment of rural health posts concentrates on preventive
aspects of health such as teaching mothers proper nutrition and hygiene.
Statistics from 1973 revealed that 34% of children in Karonga and 40% in
Chitipa were under-weight.
17.       Maternity units help to ensure that mothers and their babies remain
healthy. In Malawi, women play an important role in the daily work. An
agroeconomic survey of north Karonga established that in the categories field
work, after harvest, marketing, livestock care, construction and maintenance,
other work, and housework, male heads of households did 36% of the total hours
worked, and wives and female heads of households, 64%. Even if housework is
omitted, the percentates are 53% and 47%. Frequent pregnancies accompanied
by a lack of ante-natal and delivery care can seriously affect the health,
stamina and strength of the women. This in turn affects the health of the
children and the prosperity of the family. Moreover, ante-natal clinics could
detect problems at an early stage which in turn would reduce expensive treat-
ment at a later stage.
18.       However, the case for health expenditures must also include the
social benefit. To judge from the enthusiasm with which the rural population,
particularly in Chitipa, have embarked on self-help improvements to health
services, it is clear that the people pay high priority to medical services.
Phase I
19.       With the above in mind, the Phase I project provided funds for the
construction and operation of five rural health posts and improvements to the
Chilumba Rural Hospital and the Karonga District Hospital. During execution
some of these plans were modified. In addition, the project established a
bilharz.a control unit under the supervision of the Senior Extension and
Set-lement Officer to perform regular services at the irrigated rice schemes
(including Hara and Wovwe).
Phase II
20.       Since only a small portion of the development considered necessary
has been covered so far, it is proposed that Phase II provides further
improvements in the Karonga district and an expansion of activities in the
Chitipa area.
Existing Health Facilities
21.       Throughout Malawi health services are provided by a combination
of Ministry of Health, missions and Districts Council Units. In Karonga
and Chitipa the following facilities exist:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(a) Karonga
Location                       Type                    Agency
Karonga                  District Hospital             MOH
Karonga                  Maternity/Dispensary          Mission
Chilumba                 Primary Health Center         MOH
Chilumba (St. Anne's)   Maternity/Dispensary           Mission
Kaporo                   Primary Health Center         MOH
Kaporo                   Dispensary                    MYP
Nyungwe                  Subcenter                     MOH
Lupembe                  Dispensary                    District Council
Mpata                    Dispensary                     MOH
Songwe                   Dispensary                    MOH
Sangilo                  Dispensary                    Mission
Ighembe                  Health Post (under            MOH
construction)
Mlali                    Health Post    "      "        MOH
Mwanjasi                 Health Post    "      "        MOH
Kasowa                   Health Post                   MOH
There is also a maternity operated by Rumphi District Council at Chitimba,
a few miles south of Chilumba, and a large mission hospital at Livingstonia,
though access to this hospital is difficult from the Lake shore.
(b) ChitiPa
Location                       Type                     Agency
Chitipa                  District Hospital             MOH
Kaseye                   Hospital                      Mission
Misuku                   Dispensary                     MOH
Ifumbo                   Dispensary                    MOH
Ifumbo                   Maternity                     District Council
Kameme                   Dispensary                     MOH
Kapenda                  Dispensary                    Mission
Chambo                   Dispensary                    Mission
Wenya                    Dispensary                     MOH
Wenya                    Maternity                      District Council
Nthalire                 Dispensary                     MOH
Nthalire                 Maternity                      District Council



ANNEX 5
Page 6
In addition, mobile clinics make visits all year round at Kapoka and
Chisenga, and at Kopakopa, Sokora and Mughese when the roads are passable.
Details of Proposed Improvements
22. (a) Karonga: additional outpatient facilities in Karonga district
are not of high priority, but the existing dispensaries need to be upgraded
to centers similar to the new Nyungwe sub-center, constructed under Phase I.
(i)  Kaporo Primary Health Center:  this unit is being renovated
under Phase I. In order to function adequately as a primary
health center, it needs a 4-wheel drive vehicle vhich will
be used for supervisory work, running mobile clinics, and
carrying patients;
(ii) Mpata, Songwe and Lupembe: these three units consist only
of dispensaries, and no improvements were effected under
Phase I. Songwe is 10 miles from Kaporo and very isolated,
communications with Kapora often being difficult. Mpata
is about 12 miles from Karonga and is a focus for agri-
cultural development. Lupembe, similarly, is an important
development area with a population of more than 20,000 in
the vicinity of the health unit. It is proposed to add to
each a 6 bed maternity unit including a waiting/demonstration/
teaching area, houses for a midwife and an adequate water
supply for Mpata and Lupembe;
(b) Chitipa: no funds were provided under Phase I for this district.
To help improve present coverage, the following places are included in the
cost projections:
(i) Misuku: the Misuku area contains about 20,000 people, and
the numbers attending the dispensary are relatively high.
Additional health facilities are obviously needed, and it
is considered that these can best be provided by upgrading
the dispensary to include a maternity unit, and by sta-
tioning a 4-wheel drive vehicle and an extra medical assist-
ant and nurse/midwife at Misuku, to run regular mobile
clinics in the surrounding villages. The vehicle would
also be of great use in transporting patients to the hospital.
Housing will be needed for these staff and for a health
assistant whose present house is sub-standard. Adequate
water supply to the health unit also needs to be provided.
There will also be a health homecraft worker with training
in nutrition and maternal and child health;
(ii)  Ifumbo:  there is already a dispensary and maternity at Ifumbo,
but houses are needed for the medical assistant and for a
health assistant;



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(iii) Kamene: the dispensary at Kamene caters for about 8,000
people, and is 15 miles from the nearest unit. A maternity
unit, and houses for a midwife and health assistant are
needed;
(iv) Wenya and Nthalire: Both these units need health assistants,
and thus housing, and Wenya needs a borehole at the health
unit;
(v) Health Posts: these are proposed for the following places:
(a)  Sokora:  this is 36 miles from Chitipa but only 10 miles
from Misuku and could be one of the stopping places for
the Misuku mobile team. A clinic is held at Sokora at
present by Chitipa hospital when the roads are passable;
(b)  Kapoka:  this again is the site of an existing mobile
clinic. It is 17 miles from Chitipa, and 17 miles from
Misuku;
(c)  Ipenza:  a health post is needed in the far western
tip of Chitipa, probably at Ipenza;
(d)  Chisenga:  the only health facilities in this area
are provided by a small mission dispensary. The low
population density does not justify the expansion of
this dispensary, but a health post would provide a
valuable supplement to this service;
(e)  Kavukuku:  a health post at Kavukuku will bridge the
distance between Wenya and Nthalire sub-centers, and
will provide a service at an agricultural center;
(f)  Kopakopa:  Kopakopa is very isolated, and justifies a
health post. The mobile clinic can be run by the
vehicle from Nthalire;
(g)  Therere:  a health post at Therere would provide a
useful service to people living south of Nthalire.
Mobile Clinics
23.       Existing health units will be encouraged to run mobile clinics,
using whatever transport is available. In this way, the main catchment
area of the unit, normally reckoned to have a radius of 5 miles, can be
doubled. The clinics, other than those held at the health posts to be
constructed under the Project, will be held in any available building,
and the local people will be encouraged to build clinic shelters.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
24.       There are also funds provided for drugs and medicinal expendi-
tures.
Bilharzia (Schistosomiasis)
25.       This disease is caused by a micro-organism living in the blood
vessels of the bladder (urinary type) or of the intestines (intestinal type);
the former type comprises about 80% of the cases in Karonga. The damage
caused is greatly dependent on the severity of the infection but may debi-
litate its sufferer considerably and can eventually affect the bladder,
ureters and kidney. Once established, further progress of the disease can
be stopped by treatment but any damages are irreversible and sometimes fatal.
Possibly half of the people in Karonga are affected.
26.       Transmission occurs as follows:  the parasites in the bladder or
intestines produce eggs that leave the human body in urine or stools. If
these are deposited in water (as often happens, directly or indirectly), the
parasite will look for certain types of snails in which to develop further.
These snails are found in fresh, stagnant water, especially if reeds and
grasses are growing in it. After five to six weeks, the bilharzia parasite
leaves the snail and floats freely through the water looking for a human
body, which it penetrates through the intact skin on its way to the blood
vessels of bladder or intestines.
Bilharzia Control
27.       The Project would continue bilharzia control based on the killing
of the intermediate host of the parasite, the snail. Procedures would be
as follows:
(a) it is uneconomical to start treating the water before the
human bilharzia carrier snail is present, and some skill
is required to recognize it. A search should be made in the
irrigated areas, the non-irrigated areas, and in the streams
through the latter. Experience shows that even if no snails
are present at the first examination, they are bound to appear
sooner or later;
(b) water can be treated in various ways. If it flows at a reasonable
speed, a chemical molluscicides can be drip-fed in the main canals.
If the water is standing, the chemicals should be sprayed on
the water;
(c) two main chemicals are available as molluscicides: "Frescon" and
"Bayluscide". Frescon is easy to spray and is given in a low
dosage, thus facilitating transportation. The drug is safe
to use, but it does not kill the snails' eggs. Treatment there-
fore has to be repeated. Bayluscide does kill the eggs but until
recently was harder to dispense. However, Bayluscide has now
become available in an easy-to-dispense form. Costs of the two
treatments are about the same, and which chemical to use depends
on many local circumstances; the dosage depends on the amount of
water and the flow rate;



ANNEX 5
Page 9
(d) about every two weeks, the water has to be examined for
snails again and if the population has increased, retreat-
ment is required. The rate of increase of snails deter-
mines how soon another examination will have to be carried
out; and
(e) certain strains of snails are resistant to desiccation,
others are not. The irrigated areas will be dry once a
year for one month and the non-irrigated areas will be
dry from June to November. It will be necessary to
investigate the effect this period of drought in the
non-irrigated areas has on the snails. The short dry
periods in the double-cropped irrigation schemes will
probably not be detrimental to them.
C. National Rural Development Program
28.       Under the proposed preinvestment phase there will also be funds
provided for the N.W. Mzimba NRDP sub-project. This area is estimated to
contain a population of about 58,000 people. According to the standards
adopted by the Ministry of Health, it should, therefore, have one primary
health center and four sub-centers. However, these standards need modifi-
cation for areas of low population density, keeping in mind the rule that no
one should have to walk more than 5 miles to a health center. In the Project
area, where the population density per square mile is on average about 90,
this means one sub-center for every 7,100 people.
29.       With regard to dispensaries, this standard has already been achieved,
though their distribution over the Project area is not ideal, and their
facilities are minimal. None of the dispensaries are fully fledged sub-
centers and are unable to carry out the full range of preventive activities
that are considered desirable; the emphasis is inevitably on curative care.
30.       A comprehensive development project in the area would thus concen-
trate on developing the existing dispensaries into full sub-centers, and on
setting up a primary health center to supervise and service the sub-centers.
This comprehensive development approach would be too expensive for this
Project and, moreover, would over-commit the Ministry of Health's resources.
31.       Therefore, the Project would concentrate on up-grading one dispen-
sary to sub-center status. The dispensary selected is at Mzalangwe, near
M'Mbelwa Farm Institute, since it is centrally situated in the Project area.
The up-grading will consist of the addition of a guardian shelter/demonstration
kitchen, maternity unit and houses for an Enrolled Nurse/Midwife and Health
Assistant to the existing dispensary. A borehole will also be constructed.
32.       Details of the cost estimates for the KRDP health component are in
Annex 8, Table 13 and for NRDP in Annex 8, Table 23.
February 15, 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Job Description of Health Staff
Clinical Officer (TO)
1.        The Clinical Officer is a senior medical auxiliary.  He will be
the officer-in-charge of a Primary Health Center, and his main function,
in consultation with the District Medical Officer, will be to supervise
and manage the basic health services within his area.
Registered Nurse (TO)
2.        The Registered Nurse is a professional nurse with a training that
includes a public health component. The Registered Nurse is part of the
supervisory team of the Primary Health Center, and her particular responsi-
bilities are maternal and child health services, and health and nutrition
education.
Health Inspector (TO)
3.        The Health Inspector is responsible for personal and environmental
preventive measures within his area. As a member of the Primary Health
Center supervisory team, his function is to direct the Health Assistants.
Medical Assistant (TA)
4.        The Medical Assistant is an auxiliary worker trained in the
diagnosis and treatment of disease. He is the officer-in-charge of a
Sub-center, and provides the out-patient treatment service and under-five
clinics.
Enrolled Nurse/Midwife (TA)
5.        The Enrolled Nurse/Midwife is responsible for the maternal and
child health services of a Sub-center, and assists with under-five clinics,
She attends deliveries in the maternity unit, and undertakes domiciliary
visits.
Health Assistant (TA)
6.        The Health Assistant is the basic preventive health worker,
responsible for health education, environmental health (e.g., protection
of water supply) and personal preventive measures (e.g., follow-up of
T.B. defaulters).



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
Hospital Servant (SC)
7.        The Hospital Servant is an untrained worker who performs
domestic task and provides simple nursing care. Female servants assist
with deliveries. They are not personal servants of the staff.
Homecraft Worker (TA)
8.        The Homecraft Worker in the health services is a primary school
leaver of standing in the local community. She provides health education,
especially on nutrition, child care and home hygiene subjects. She has
simple first aid skills, but is expected to refer all serious cases for
further attention. She assists with out-patients, ante-natal and under-five
clinics.
February 15, 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Health Unit Description
Previous Structure
District Hospital
1.        The main Ministry of Health hospital in an administrative district,
with a medical officer in charge. Usually has 50-150 beds, operating theatre,
X-ray and laboratory.
Rural Hospital
2.        Smaller Ministry of Health hospital, with a clinicl officer in
charge. Usually has 20-30 beds in male, female and maternity wards, but
lacks theatre and X-ray. In future planning, most Rural Hospitals will be
graded as Primary Health Centers; see below.
Mission Hospital
3.        Range comprises both the above (and sometimes smaller units with
beds). Mission Hospitals fall outside the structure of Ministry of Health
types, and operate with substantial independence.
Dispensary (Government units have been recently retitled
Rural Health Centers)
4.        A unit providing simple out-patient treatment given usually by
a Medical Assistant. Most now also provide a regular under-five clinic.
Maternity Unit
5.        A unit providing beds for lying-in mothers and a delivery room
under the care of an auxiliary midwife. Some units also provide ante-natal
care and under-five clinics.
Structure Proposed by WHO Report
District Hospital
6.        As above, District Hospitals will also act as the Primary Health
Center for the local area, but require additional staff to carry out the
necessary supervision.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
Primary Health Center
7.        The Primary Health Center is at the apex of the basic health
services structure. As an independent unit, it has 16 beds (10 maternity,
6 holding beds) and a staff consisting of:
1 Clinical Officer
1 Registered Nurse
1 Health Inspector
1 Medical Assistant
2 Enrolled Nurse/Midwives
1 Laboratory Assistant
1 Driver
3 Servants
In addition to providing services identical to those of the Sub-center
directly to its immediate locality, it is staffed to provide referral and
supervisory services to the Sub-centers and Health Posts within its juris-
diction, an area containing a population of about 50,000.
Health Sub-center
8.        The Sub-center is the basic unit of the system at which curative
and preventive services are integrated. It is designed to serve a popula-
tion of 10,000 with out-patient treatment, under-five clinics, ante-natal
care and delivery service, health education and communicable disease control
measures, provided by a staff consisting of:
1 Medical Assistant
1 Enrolled Nurse/Midwife
I Health Assistant
1 Homecraft Worker
2 Servants
The first three of these staff constitute the clinic team which visits the
health posts to provide a weekly clinic and to supervise the Homecraft Worker.
Health Post
9.        The Health Post is the smallest unit in the structure, serving a
population of 2,000 in its immediate locality. It consists of a house for
the Homecraft Worker, with an extended shelter for teaching and holding the
weekly clinic. The Homecraft Worker provides health education, particularly
hutrition, child care and home hygiene, does home visiting, and assists with
the weekly clinic. She has simple remedies to treat minor illnesses and injury
on a first-aid basis. Some health posts are unmanned.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
Health Unit
10.       The WHO recommendations for planning basic health services are based
on a Health Unit serving a population of 50,000. Each Health Unit at full
development will consists of:
1 Primary Health Center       1  : 50,000  population
4  Health Sub-centers         1  :  10,000  population
20  Health Posts               1  :   2,000  population
N.B.      The primary Health Center provides the Sub-center services to
the adjacent 10,000 population. The Primary Health Center and
4 Sub-centers provide the Homecraft Worker service to the
adjacent 2,000 population.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Staff Training and Requirements
A. Staff Training
Bunda Agricultural College
1.        Bunda Agricultural College, located near Lilongwe, is one of three
constituent colleges of the University of Malawi and offers a three-year
course leading to a Diplomua in Agriculture. A separate four-year course
leads to a Bachelor of Science in Agriculture degree. The first year of basic
science of the degree course is undertaken at Chancellor College, near Zomba,
followed by three years at Bunda. The degree course is being increased to
five years.
2.        Commencing in 1966, by 1975 there was an enrollment of 225, of
which 163 were in the diploma course and 62 enrolled in the degree program.
In all, degrees had been awarded to 46 students and diplomas to 289 students.
In addition, 78 certificate holders from Colby College had been upgraded to
diploma standard. Graduations in 1975 were 42 diplomates and 15 degree
graduates, and 55 diplomates and 21 degree level are expected to graduate
in 1976. There are no student intake problems as applications from qualified
school learners greatly exceed capacity and their educational standard meets
or exceeds Malawi Certificate of Education (MCE) examination requirements and
is improving each year.
3.        Job opportunities greatly exceed the supply of graduates at both
diploma and degree level. There were 167 job offers for 57 graduates in
1975, of which 51 were employed by MANR. Of these, 23 (mainly diplomates)
accepted openings within the Research Department, and only five were recruited
by Extension and Training where the need is greatest. Recent discussions
with the University are expected to result in increased recruitment by the
Extension Department in subsequent years. Many other vacancies remained
unfilled within MANR, and also for secondary school teaching, ADMARC and the
private sector.
4.        USAID and the UK Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) have been
giving considerable assistance to the University and last year an AID mission
reviewed requirements 1/ and has under consideration proposals for an expan-
sion of facilities, to meet the following enrollment and graduation numbers:
1/   Requirements Analysis for Developing the University of Malawi's Bunda
College of Agriculture, 1975-80; USAID, September 1974.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
1975     1976      1980
Total Enrollment                207       234      364
Graduation
Diploma                     42        55       60 1/
Degree                      15        21       30 T/
Total                  57       76        90
1/   The proportion of diplomates and degree graduates would vary.
The program for the first three years would be the same for both
diplomates and degree students. The number entering the 4th and
5th years for the degree would vary from year to year.
The aid mission also suggested that needs for additional expansion be reviewed
again in 1977. It considered that if the need was confirmed, capacity could
be further increased to about 450 students without excessive additional
expenditure.
Colby College of Agriculture
5.        The College was formed in 1967 by combining the Colby School of
Agriculture with the Likuni Farm Institute, both located near Lilongwe.
It offers a two-year course leading to a Certificate in Agriculture, which
is the basic requirement for MANR Technical Assistants (TA). The intake is
about 180 students in the first year at Likuni campus of whom about 160
proceed in the second year at Colby. The minimum student entry standard is
a full Junior Certificate in Education (10 years of basic education). In
1975 there were several thousand applications for 180 openings. About three
quarters of those admitted had MCE qualification. In 1975 159 students were
awarded certificates. Employment opportunities exceeded the number of grad-
uates and all were posted. MANR recruited about 135, of whom some 60 entered
the Extension Service. The more isolated Northern Region, ADMARC and the
private sector failed to recruit their requirements.
6.        Colby also offers a course in home economics and eight women
entered this year. However, the Thuchila Farm Institute, in the Southern
Region, is the main training center for women with an intake of about 25
students per year. The one-year course leads to a Certificate as Farm
Home Instructress.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        Veterinary Assistants are trained at Mikolongwe School and Live-
stock Improvement Center, near Blantyre. The school is operated by the
Veterinary Department of MANR and offers a two-year course of similar
standard to Colby, which leads to certification as Veterinary Assistants.
The student output of 35 this year failed to meet demand. Intake of
students has been increased to 50 and an output of about 45 VA's is
expected after next year.
The Proposed Natural Resources College (NRC)
8.        The purpose of the proposed NRC would be to combine the existing
Colby, Thuchila and Mikolongwe Colleges to provide vocational training for
field level workers for MANR and associated organizations. Capacity is
planned for 580 students undertaking a two-year course leading to certif-
ication as Technical Assistants, Veterinary Assistants or Farm Home Instruc-
tresses. The annual output is projected at 270 of whom 50 would be women.
Little change would be made in the output of TA's and VA's but the number
of FHI's would be doubled.
9.        The College would be located at Likuni Campus of Colby College,
where 400 adjacent acres have been acquired and 380 acres would be used
as a teaching farm. The facilities will be planned to permit subsequent
expansion of capacity if required. Advantages of the new College would be
to provide a higher standard of training, to allow more coordination between
agriculture and animal production and to develop a better understanding be-
tween the disciplines. The College would also provide the flexibility that
will be needed to meet changing needs for trained staff in the years to come,
and should lead to economies in operating costs. The establishment cost has
been estimated at MK 6.6 million. The proposals are finalized for submis-
sion to potential donors.
In-Service Training
10.       Training courses for the lower level Development Assistants, and
refresher courses for trained staff are frequently held at the 22 odd Residen-
tial Farmer Training Centers and at the Farm Institutes in each Region.
The ongoing major projects also provide various training programs. The
planning unit of MANR has a three-year post-graduate training program, in-
cluding overseas fellowships leading to a Master of Science Degree. Three have
already completed this training and it is planned to send four officers
overseas for post graduate work each year. Training in accountancy is under-
taken at the Staff Training College at Mzemba, the Training Center at Zomba
and at MANR Headquarters. The output of in-service training is not quantified
but it undoubtedly adds considerably to resources of trained staff.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
B. Requirements of Trained Manpower
11.       No comprehensive survey has yet been made of MANR's changing
requirements of trained manpower over the next 15-20 years but the Ministry
is working on the problem. Meanwhile, the available evidence suggests that
the supply of TA level field workers should be reasonably adequate but there
will be a shortage of professional and technical officers for some time to
come.
Technical Assistants
12.       The field staffing aim of MANR is to achieve on average a ratio of
one field worker of TA level to about 500 farm families by about 1995.
This aim enables requirements of TA field workers to be projected approxi-
mately, and this has been done in the draft report on the proposed Natural
Resources College. Three groups are projected separately (Table 1). First,
the Field Assistants (TA), who are in direct contact with farmers. Second,
the Farm Home Instructresses and female Field Assistants who are also in
direct contact with farm families. It is projected that there will be about
1 FHI to 5 TA's and the combined total is regarded as the field force for the
farm family/TA ratio. Third, there are the other TA's not directly involved
in extension duties, e.g., research, field survey and teaching. Since these
positions must be filled from Colby College (or the proposed NRC) their
requirements have been projected separately.
13.       No information is given concerning the assumed rate of implemen-
tation of NRDP projects, other than that the program is planned to affect
all areas of the country before 1995. The planned requirement of trained
recruits would fully absorb Colby's output and no allowance has been made for
private sector employment. No doubt adjustments could be made to NRC through-
put and the future supply/demand position for Technical Assistants should not
be a serious limiting factor to the execution of NRDP.
Technical and Professional Officers
14.       The USAID mission was concerned with the training of higher level
Diplomates (Technical Officer) and Graduates (Professional Officer). The
AID mission was unable to make a definitive study of manpower needs, but
was convinced from a review of reports that "the number of Malawian diplomates
and graduates available in the country does not begin to meet current require-
ments, much less an expanding future demand." MANR's "Projection of Demand
for Graduates and Diplomates," (1973), was among the reports examined by AID.
Staff demand projections are based on varying annual growth rates averaging
about 4-1/2%, which are derived from budgetary considerations, and are not
related to anticipated staff requirements arising from NRDP. The likely
recruitment needs of the private sector also received very slim consideration.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Subject to these reservations, the projections indicated that after shortages
for the next two or three years, a Bunda output of 28 Graduates and 55 Diplo-
mates would reasonably meet the requirements of MANR and the Ministry of
Education until 1985. The AID mission recommended a student capacity for
Bunda of 365 by 1980, which would give an annual output of about 60 diplomates
and 30 graduates. It is not clear how this output relates to the needs of
NRDP.
15.       The MANR projection (1973) estimated the staffing position of MANR
and the Ministry of Education (MOE) for diplomates and graduates in 1973 and
at the end of 1975, as follows:
Total Posts        Posts Held           Posts Held by
Established       by Malawians      Expatriates or Vacant
1973   1975       1973   1975           1973    1975
Diplomates          314    345        258    313             56      32
Graduates           142    156         60      88            82      68
The shortfall of Malawian diplomates was expected to decrease from 56 in 1973
to 32 over two years, so that the shortage from existing establishment is not
unduly perturbing. The shortfall of Malawian graduates was expected to de-
cline from 82 (58% of established posts) to 68 (44%) and there will be a
serious shortage of Malawian Professional Officers for several more years.
16.       The MANR studies now being undertaken should give priority atten-
tion to projections of additional requirements of both newly trained and
experienced Professional and Technical Officers that will be needed for the
effective implementation of the NRDP over the next 20 years. Pending avail-
ability of these data, some indication of the magnitude of the problem can be
gained from a recent informal study 1/ of the staff needs of the Department
of Extension and Training (DET), which would be responsible for executing
NRDP; it is here that most of the demand for additional technical and profes-
sional staff will arise. The Department is at present particularly short of
staff who have adequate experience for the posts they hold. This has come
about largely because the Department during recent years has been the reser-
voir of agriculturalists trained in field work at various levels. These have
been drawn upon by promotion to fill new posts in the major projects and
other expanding activities. However, staff needs on the major projects are
being largely met and they will not have important demands for additional
staff as they are phased out to become regional management units of NRDP.
1/   Suggested Development of Extension and Training Department Staff,
1975-1980.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
17.       Most of the demand for additional technical and professional staff
will therefore fall upon DET. Table 2 gives a breakdown of the Department's
staff establishment for 1962 and 1974 and a projected establishment for 1980.
During the 12 years ending 1974, the number of professional posts increased by
five only, and the Department was unable to fill many of the 50 additional
technical positions. While DET lost responsibility for about 22% of the coun-
try to the major development projects, the increase in staff in post was
minimum although extension activities intensified during this period. New
activities included development of a comprehensive system of farmer training
centers, the inclusion of animal husbandry in extension work and the growing
complexity of extension work as crop husbandry practices improved. It is
clear, therefore, that the current staff resources of DET are under consider-
able strain.
18.       The projected establishment for 1980 carries 21 additional graduate
and 122 more diplomate positions. There is a high incidence of vacancies
against the 1974 establishment and the number of expatriates filling positions
is expected to decline. Consequently, it can reasonably be assumed that an
average of about 30 graduates and diplomates would have to be recruited
annually to fill the 1980 establishment of the Extension Department. It
appears unlikely that this gap can be filled and the overall manpower situa-
tion of the Ministry requires therefore careful consideration in determining
the rate of implementation of future NRDP sub-projects.
February 15, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table i
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT , PHASE II
Projection of Requirements and Availability of Technical Assistants
l975 1/ 1980    1985    1990    1995
Number Rural Households,'000            1,002   1,088   1,181   1,277   1,372
Projected Staff Requirements:
Field Assistants (TA)
Households/TA                           900     775     700      640     600
Requirements                          1,113   1,404   1,687   1,995   2,287
Farm Home Instructresses (FHI)
Household/FHI                        10,000   6,ooo   4,000   3,450   3,000
Requirements                            100     181     295      370     443
Other Agricultural TA's
Household/TA                          4,000   3,000   2,500   2,400   2,300
Requirements                            250     363      472     532     596
Total Requirements all
Agricultural TA's                     1,463   1,948   2,454   2,987   3,326
Planned Output Trained Recruits           170     230      230     230     230
Expected Number Employed January Ist?/ 1,339   1,921   2,478   2,880   3,175
1/ Actual figures.
2/ Assumes a wastage rate of 5%.
December 30, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT , PHASE II
Staff Establishment of the Department of Extension and Training
1962      1974     Projected 1980
Superscale (S)                       7        10             16
Professional Officer (PO)           23        25             40
Sub-total Professional         30        35            56
Chief Technical Officer (CTO)        6        13            26
Senior Technical Officer (STO)       6        12            22
Technical Officer (TO)              61       98            197
Sub-total Technical            73      123            245
Senior Technical Assistant (STA)   43         21             95
Technical Assistant (TA)           706       748         1,186
Sub-total Technical
Assistants                    749       769         1,281
TOTAL                              852       927          1,582
December 30, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
National Rural Development Program
1.        The concept of a National Rural Development Program (NRDP) emerged
from discussions between officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR) and the World Bank on the impact of the major agricultural
projects in Malawi and the possibility of extending these projects to other
areas of the country. The heavy capital outlay required for the major projects
weighed against the idea of extending them over the whole of Malawi within a
reasonable time period. It was concluded that a change of emphasis was needed
to assure a more rapid and a more equitable expansion of development activ-
ities and benefits. A target period of approximately 20 years has now been
set and during that period rural development activities would either commence,
or be further supported, in all areas of the country. It was further agreed
that development in any given area would be phased and that in a first stage
emphasis would be placed on investments with an immediate impact on agricul-
tural production. Other investments, which are unlikely to have a substan-
tial immediate bearing on production, would be made at later stages.
2.        Under NRDP the sequence of events in any given area would be
roughly as follows:
(a) The activities would start with a two or three year preparatory
phase. This would include land and agro-economic surveys,
followed by detailed physical and economic planning and the
establishment of agronomic trials where necessary. This phase
would be concluded with the construction of additional housing
and the allocation of new extension staff to minimize delay in
implementing the next phase of development. A start would also
be made with the construction of additional water sources, mar-
keting facilities, rural roads and health posts whenever exist-
ing facilities are found to be clearly inadequate.
(b) The next phase, tentatively called extensive phase, would be
implemented over a period of about five years and would
include investment in production related items such as im-
proved extension and training, marketing, supply of inputs
and credit. The construction of essential supporting infra-
structure, started in the preparatory phase, would be com-
pleted during the early years of the extensive phase.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(c) During a following five-year phase, called intensive phase,
more attention would be given to research and introduction of
new crops and processing technologies, the intensification of
cropping programs, opening up of new areas--where available--
for settlement, land conservation and consolidation, animal
husbandry, and the construction of new roads. This phase
would be more or less equivalent to the ongoing major
projects.
(d) Finally the projects would enter a consolidation phase, which
would involve a continuation of more intensive development,
further improvements to social infrastructure--especially
education and health--and may also include the development
of rural industries.
3.        Good progress has meanwhile been made in preparing NRDP after
its concept was first discussed during the 1973 agricultural sector review.
For planning purposes the country has been divided into about 170 ecological
planning areas (EPA). These EPA's are ecologically uniform with identifiable
topographic boundaries and contain some 6,000-9,000 farm families each. They
are suitable for extension management by one technical officer (TO) supervis-
ing ultimately about 12 technical assistants (TA), who in turn would each on
average cover 500 farm families. Tentatively the EPA's have been grouped into
a total of 47 development areas which are envisaged as the project areas
of NRDP sub-projects. They include the areas of the ongoing major projects
KRDP, LLDP, SVADP and CRLDP; Chitipa district is a separate development
area and so are the N.W. Mzimba, Thiwi-Lifidzi and Kawinga areas. The 47
development areas in turn are tentatively grouped into ten development regions.
It is envisaged that each of these regions will ultimately be managed and
serviced by a regional management unit. The nucleus for seven such units
exists already in the form of the three present Regional Agricultural Offices
in Mzuzu, Lilongwe and Blantyre and the headquarters of the LLDP, SVADP,
KRDP and CLRDP projects, which all report directly to the Ministry. One of
the Lilongwe units would need to be transferred, probably to Kasungu, and
new regional management units would need to be established for the envisaged
Mzimba, Shire West and Shire East development regions. So far no time table
has been agreed upon for the establishment of the new regional management
units but it is anticipated that the change-over from the existing organiza-
tion to the new one would be gradual and involve some transitional arrange-
ments.
4.        The Government has prepared a first version of a bar chart which
shows for each of the 47 development areas when NRDP activities would start
and how development would be phased over the next 20 years. The following
criteria were used to rank the 47 areas and to determine their priority for
development:



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(a) areas with high, but largely undeveloped potential;
(b) areas where considerable initiative is being shown by the
farmers;
(c) areas of food deficit;
(d) areas of ready accessibility, and some existing infrastructure;
and
(e) maintaining an even balance in providing development assistance
to all regions.
In the past, priorities have changed frequently for one reason or another.
The Government is now aware that changes should be kept to the minimum and
that no such changes should be made once the actual project preparation, i.e.
surveys and detailed planning, has started. Changes in the actual commence-
ment date of the sub-projects are inevitable, of course, since they depend on
a number of factors, of which Malawi's manpower situation and the availability
of development funds are the most important.
5.        It is envisaged that NRDP would be implemented with financial assis-
tance of World Bank/IDA and other external donors. An amount of MK 200,000
was included in the LLDP III Credit to assist the preparation of NRDP by pro-
viding for an expansion of MANR's land resources and agro-economic survey
sections and for the establishment of crop trials. The funds were to cover
NRDP preparation work during 1975/1976 and 1976/1977 but the program has
recently been revised, mainly because of an agreed need to construct more
staff houses than originally planned and because construction turned out to
be more expensive than anticipated. The available funds now cover the year
1975/76 only. The present KRDP II Project proposes financing of a further
two-year preliminary investment phase of NRDP and would cover the years
1976/77 and 1977/78. The Government intends to request Bank/IDA support for
a full-fledged Phase I NRDP project, probably for four years from 1978/79
onwards.
6.        The present NRDP preliminary investment phase involves further
strengthening of a number of the Ministry's services which play key roles in
the planning and future implementation of NRDP. This preliminary investment
phase further includes financing for the start-up of NRDP in the development
areas N.W. Mzimba (Northern Region), Thiwi-Lifidzi (Central Region) and
Kawinga (Southern Region). Further details on each of the proposed invest-
ments are given below and in Annex 8.
Land Resources Surveys
7.        Land resource surveys are made by the Ministry's land husbandry
branch and involve an inventory of land and soil categories in the areas



ANNEX 7
Page 4
to be developed, in particular the acreages suitable for crop growing, and
recommended land use for suitable areas, together with recommendations for
road lines and conservation practices. For NRDP these surveys would need
to be done in approximately three development areas per year. Under the
LLDP III project the land husbandry unit has already been expanded by a
senior professional officer, a professional officer and a technical officer
(draftsman) and this Project provides for the recruitment of an additional
professional officer and two technical assistants, mainly for airphoto
analysis. There are also provisions for housing of new staff, transport,
airphotography and map production and other materials.
Agro-economic Surveys
8.        The agro-economic survey unit in MANR is in charge of farm and
socio-economic surveys in agricultural development areas in order to collect
and analyze baseline data for project preparation and future evaluation.
Depending on the nature of the project envisaged, the baseline data to be
collected would include:
(a) yields, production and disposal of major crops;
(b) holding sizes and acreages of major crops;
(c) types and values of purchased inputs;
(d) details of the livestock population;
(e) demographic data;
(f) family income and expenditures;
(g) when necessary, labor and sociological studies.
The agro-economic survey unit was established in the late 1960s mainly to
conduct labour studies. With the passage of time the unit became increasingly
involved in general survey work needed for project preparation. Because of
this the unit has recently switched from the case study approach to the sample
survey methodology which permits it to collect data from a wider sample of
households living in dispersed areas. It has now been agreed with the Govern-
ment that the usual two-year survey period would be cut back to one year, fol-
lowed by a quick spot check on yields during the next harvesting season.
Baseline data would thus be available at an earlier date and the risk of the
unit studying an area which meanwhile has been dropped from Government's
priority list--as frequently happened in the past--would be smaller. Under
LLDP III the unit was expanded with two professional officers and two statis-
tical clerks; under this Project the unit would be further strengthened with a
senior technical officer, who would be responsible for field survey teams, one
senior technical assistants for checking and verification of survey data and



ANNEX 7
Page 5
training of new staff, and one senior statistical clerk to assist the exist-
ing data processing officer in supervising the data processing unit. Housing
for new staff, survey and office equipment, and transport would also be pro-
vided for.
Crop Experiments
9.        It is clear that any crop input package should have the backing of
experimental data which are relevant for the area where the package is to be
recommended. In many areas these data are still lacking and it is therefore
important that at an early stage plots be laid out to test input packages
and other factors which effect the levels of production. These tests would
initially be restricted to the crops which are commonly grown in the area
and could at a later stage also include crops which appear promising. Repli-
cates of test sites will depend on soil types and micro-ecological conditions
in the development area. Under provisions of the LLDP III Credit test sites
are being established in two development areas and under this Project activ-
ities would be started in six areas which are scheduled to be included in
the NRDP I project, due to start in 1978/79. The areas, staff and crops
involved are:
Grade of Staff
Area           Region       Responsible                  Crops
Henga Valley        North            TA          maize, groundnuts, beans, cotton
Gowa                Central          TA          maize, groundnuts, possibly
cotton
Mwanza              South            STA         cotton, maize, groundnuts,
possibly citrus
Chonde              Central          TA          maize, groundnuts
Ntchisi             Central          TA          maize, groundnuts, possibly rice
S.W. Mzimba         North            TA          oriental tobacco, maize,
groundnuts, beans, livestock
The Project would also provide for staff housing, tools and materials, trans-
port, and general labour.
Evaluation Units
10.       Each of the four ongoing major projects has an evaluation unit to
monitor and analyze the projects' progress. In part the units collect rele-
vant data from other sections of the projects, for example cost accounting
data, inputs issued to the farmers, miles of roads constructed, etc. Other



ANNEX 7
Page 6
data are collected through field surveys, for example on crop yields and
production, crop acreages and holding sizes, values of purchased inputs, sales
of major crops, etc. The various evaluation units have so far not been
very successful in producing reliable and meaningful results. On several
occasions too much emphasis has been placed on data collection rather than
analysis and year-to-year figures are often not comparable because of changes
in methodology. This is partly due to the fact that evaluation is a rather
recent feature; clear guidance as to what the units are supposed to do has
been lacking and frequent staff changes have sometimes caused a lack of
continuity. The Government has recognized the need for firmer guidance of
evaluation work and a working party consisting of representatives of the
Ministry, the various evaluation sections and the agro-economic survey unit,
has now made good progress to a better definition of the tasks of the various
sections. It is recognized that the survey results obtained by the different
organizations should be comparable and that the survey terms, definitions and
sampling procedures must be similar. An evaluation section has already been
established within MANR's planning unit and the soon-to-be nominated head of
this section will be responsible for the coordination of all project evalua-
tion work within the Ministry. The section would review annual work programs
of the projects' evaluation units and might also involve itself in further
analysis of data collected by the evaluation units and by the agro-economic
survey section.
11.       The Government requested funds for the establishment and operation
of three new evaluation units to be attached to the existing Regional Agri-
cultural Offices at Mzuzu, Lilongwe and Blantyre and the ultimate objective
was to attach eventually evaluation units to each of the future ten regional
management units. In view of the large amount of resources involved in
such an arrangement, both in manpower and finance, it was agreed to include
provision for only one additional evaluation unit, to be established in
the Regional Agricultural Ofice in Mzuzu. The unit would specifically be
charged with monitoring the progress in the N.W. Mzimba development area. The
Thiwi-Lifidzi development area would be monitored by the LLDP evaluation
unit, which would not be too difficult since the area is located on LLDP's
south-eastern border. The future organization of evaluation work should be
further discussed and agreed upon during the appraisal of the NRDP I project.
It is conceivable that ultimately three evaluation units, established in
Mzuzu, Lilongwe and Blantyre, with some field staff in the development areas
would be an appropriate solution. This would involve mergers of the existing
KRDP evaluation unit with the new one to be established in Mzuzu for the
Northern Region, and of the LLDP and CRLDP evaluation units for the Central
Region. The SVADP evaluation unit could then become responsible for the whole
Southern Region and could be based in Blantyre. The new Mzuzu evaluation unit
would under this Project be staffed with one agricultural economist (PO), one
technical officer (TO), two technical assistants (TA) for the two field teams
and one TA for data processing, and six development assistants (DA) for the
two field teams (three for each team) and three DA's for data processing.
Housing, transport, and field and office equipment would be provided for, as
well.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Accounts and Credit
12.       In contrast with the ongoing major projects general and credit
accounts of NRDP preinvestment phase would be kept at the Ministry rather than
in the projects' headquarters. MANR's accounts division controls at present
the accounts of all departments, except the major projects, and it does not
have the capacity to handle the additional volume of work involved. Therefore
a nucleus staff would be set up under the preliminary investment phase of NRDP
for the temporary central control of both credit finance and development
finance. Accounts and records to be handled by the nucleus staff would be
maintained on a fully commercial basis using the systems already in operation
in the major, IDA-financed, projects. This Project would provide for the
following staff to be based permanently at MANR's headquarters at Lilongwe:
one chief accountant, one senior accountant, one accountant and one accounts
assistant for the development accounts section and one field officer credit,
one accountant and one senior accounts assistant for the credit section. In
addition the following staff would for training purposes temporarily be
stationed in Lilongwe and in due course be transferred to the development area
headquarters (N.W. Mzimba, Thiwi-Lifidzi and Kawinga sub-projects): three
accountants and three accounts assistants for the development accounts section
and three accounts assistants for the credit section. New recruits would
replace staff being transferred to the area headquarters; the MANR headquarters
unit would thus serve as the training ground for the accountants and their
assistants required for NRDP. This Project would also provide for continued
financing of a financial controller-presently a staff member of ADS, assigned
to the IDA-financed projects--for the setting up of a national credit system.
The Project would also retain the services of a systems analyst/programmer to
computerize credit accounts, possibly to be recruited also through ADS. The
Project would further provide housing for new staff, transport, and office
equipment and operating costs.
Road Construction
13.       Each of the three ongoing IDA-financed projects has its own con-
struction unit, including heavy plant for road construction. A certain
amount of road construction will be needed in the areas to be developed under
NRDP although the volume of work would be less during the initial stages of
development than in the major projects. Normally the Ministry of Works and
Supplies (MOW) would be called upon to carry out the road construction work
through hiring plant from its Public Vehicle Hire Organization (PVHO), however
the Ministry has heavy road construction and maintenance commitments and
limited plant availability. Therefore, and also to ensure timely and well-
coordinated execution of the works, MANR would set up a small road construc-
tion unit. Full use would be made from the experience gained under the major
projects. The construction and conservation officer, provided by ADS for LLDP
III and who is completing his present assignment in the course of 1976, would
be retained under this Project for the NRDP construction program. A bulldozer
a grader, a front end loader, four lorries, and some other equipment would be
procured.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Coffee Study and Other Consultancies
14.       A provision has been included in the Project for a study of the
prospects for development of Malawi's smallholder coffee industry. The
study would be carried out by a coffee agronomist and an economist (see also
Annex 1). The need for other consultant services may arise during the imple-
mentation of the Project and allowance for this has been made in the cost
estimates. Specific subjects on which further outside help may be needed
include:
(a) a review of proposals for a national credit program;
(b) interpretation in economic terms of research data from
NRDP trials and assistance in the formulation of input
packages and farming systems;
(c) setting up of a well organized library system at the
main agricultural research station at Chitedze.
NRDP Sub-projects
15.       Under this Project preliminary investments would be made in three
development areas. The names of these NRDP sub-projects and some details are
summarized below:
N.W. Mzimba      Thiwi-Lifidzi          Kawinga
Region                       North            Central               South
Number of EPA's                2.5                4                    5
Number of Families           10,250            25,500                20,240
Gross Area, acres          437,000            244,530               474,000
Population Density,
persons/sq mile             75               340                    140
Crops                     maize            maize                   maize
groundnuts       groundnuts             groundnuts
beans            beans                  beans
sweet potatoes  dark-fired tobacco    cassava
millet           Irish Potatoes         sweet potatoes
sorghum                                 cotton
cassava                                 rice
oriental tobacco                        millet
sorghum



ANNEX 7
Page 9
The Mzimba area is sparsely settled and some good soils are not used for crop
cultivation mainly due to poor water supplies. The soils are generally erod-.
able and require good management and conservation measures; with the help of
the Mzuzu-based land husbandry section planning of farms on a catchment basis
has been started by marking water-ways and aligning ridges on the contour.
A small proportion of farmers have organized themselves in groups and they
receive a great deal of attention from the extension staff. The use of
fertilizers and seeds, supplied on credit to group members, is increasing
but total quantities involved are still small. Thiwi-Lifidzi is very densely
populated and all arable land is effectively under cultivation. Farmers use
contour cultivation and dry season cultivation more than in any other region
of Malawi. The use of fertilizers, mainly on maize, has increased substan-
tially over the last few years and reached about 1,200 m ton in 1973/74;
many farmers clubs were formed with the main objective of buying fertilizer
bulk at a discount from ADMARC. The Kawinga development area consists of two
distinct parts, namely a cattle, rice, cassava economy bordering Lake Chilwa
in the south and a maize, groundnut, cotton, tobacco economy on the higher
plateau areas in the north. In the Lake Chilwa plains drainage is impeded
during the wet season but there is a large amount of readily available resi-
dual soil moisture during most of the dry season. The flats have a clear
potential for increased rice and livestock production. The northern part
has sandy soils and a rather low rainfall of only 30 inches per year. There
is a noticeable interest in tobacco growing.
16.       All three development areas have a good potential for increased
production, mainly through more intensified cultivation methods and in some
parts also through opening up of presently unused land (Mzimba, southern
Kawinga). In all areas there has been a favorable response by the farmers
towards pilot development activities--especially in Mzimba and Thiwi-Lifidzi.
Work remains to be done, however, on the preparation of suitable crop and
livestock development plans for the various areas. The agro-economic survey
unit has started in 1975 a systematic survey in the Thiwi-Lifidzi area and
will have to go back to Mzimba and Kawinga where the unit made case studies
of several villages a few years ago. A thorough land resources survey was
done in 1975 in the Kawinga area but a more detailed inventory remains
to be made of the Mzimba and Thiwi-Lifidzi areas. A great deal of agricul-
tural research results may be of immediate use but farm scale testing is
required to firm up the recommendations. There are ample indications that
investments of the nature as described under the preparatory phase of NRDP
(see paragraph 2) are justified in all three cases. In Mzimba and Thiwi-
Lifidzi NRDP activities would start during the first year of the two-year
preliminary investment phase (1976/77) and in Kawinga in the second year
(1977/78).
17.       In Mzimba a total of 19 houses would be built for new staff during
the first year, as well as a rural training center and office accommodation.
The construction of 20 boreholes would be spread over the two years and the
construction of two essential bridges would be done in the second year.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
ADMARC would build two bush markets/input stores during the two-year period
and some additional health facilities would also be constructed during that
period. A senior technical officer, who would act as the Project supervisor
under the divisional agricultural officer at Mzimba-town, would be recruited
during the first year and new extension, credit and land husbandry staff
during the second year. Present and future staff positions are as follows:
At present     Additional      End of year 2
Project supervisor (STO)                             1                1
TO Extension                         1               1               2
TA Extension                        11               7              18
TO Credit                            -               1                1
TA Credit                            -               2               2
TO Land husbandry                    -               1                1
TA Land husbandry                    -               4               4
TO Research                          -               1                1
TA Research                          -               1                1
DA Extension                         5             (-5)              _
Total                          17              14              31
The first seasonal and medium-term credit disbursements would be made during
the second year when the Project would assume responsibility for credit opera-
tions, which are at present under the Government Loans Board. The new land
husbandry staff would ultimately be integrated with the extension staff when
the main task of preparing proper layouts for the farms would approach its
final stage.
18.       Preliminary investments in the Thiwi-Lifidzi sub-project would
follow the same pattern as in Mzimba and the first year's activities would
mainly concern the construction of some 33 additional staff houses, two rural
training centers, office accommodation and stores. Some 15 boreholes would
also be constructed in the first year. Provision has been made for the
construction or improvement of some 50 miles of rural roads (some improvements
are necessary in Mzimba as well but for logistic reasons it is unlikely that
this can be done in the second year). ADMARC would construct three input
stores over the two-year period. As in Mzimba a Project supervisor would be
recruited in the first year and other additional staff in the second year.
Present and future staff positions are as follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 11
At present      Additional      End of year 2
Project supervisor (STO)              -               1                1
TO Extension                          1               2                3
TA Extension                         10              14               24
TO Land husbandry                     -               1                1
TA Land husbandry                     -               2                2
TO Credit                             -               1                1
TA Credit                             -               4                4
TO Tobacco                            -               1                1
DA Extension                          4             (-4)               -
TA Research.                                          1                1
TA Forestry                                           1                1
TA Farm House Instructresses          -               2                2
Total                           15              26               41
Reafforestation would be essential in this area because of the rapidly dimin-
ishing wood reserves. Seasonal credit, which so far has not been available,
has to be introduced very carefully because of the adverse impact this may
have on cash sales of fertilizers; credit operations would therefore at first
most likely concentrate on medium term items. Only a small amount for credit
operations has been provided for in the second year.
19.       Investments in the Kawinga sub-project would start in the second
Project year and mainly consist of the construction of two rural training
centers and 28 houses for staff to be recruited in the third year (probably
year 1 of NRDP I). A Project supervisor (CTO) would be recruited in the
second year. The Project also provides for a technical officer research.
Two rural training centers, office accommodation and ten boreholes would also
be constructed and ADMARC would build one market and two input stores.
20.       All additional staff positions to be established under the NRDP
pre-investment phase are summarized in Appendix 1.
February 15, 1976



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Additional Positions to be Established for NRDP Pre-investment Phase
A.   Central Services MANR
(i)  Land Husbandry Section (Lilongwe)
1    Professional Officer
2    Technical Assistants
(ii) Agro-economic Survey Section (Lilongwe)
1    Senior Technical Officer
1    Senior Technical Assistant
1    Senior Statistical Clerk
(iii) Crop Experiments (various field locations)
1    Senior Technical Assistant
5    Technical Assistants (of which 3 in year 2 only)
(iv) Evaluation Unit (Mzuzu)
1    Professional Officer
1    Technical Officer
3    Technical Assistants
9    Development Assistants
1    Typist
(v)  Accounts Road Construction and Consultancies (Lilongwe)
1    Systems Analyst/Programmer
1    Construction Officer
I    Chief Accountant
1    Senior Accountant
5    Accountants
1    Senior Accounts Assistant
6    Accounts Assistants
1    Field Officer (TO) - Credit
B.   N.W. Mzimba Sub-project
Year 1:
1    Senior Technical Officer - Project Supervisor



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 2
Year 2:
1    Technical Officer - Extension and Training
1    Technical Officer - Credit
1    Technical Officer - Land Husbandry
1    Technical Officer -  Research
7    Technical Assistants - Extension and Training
2    Technical Assistants - Credit
4    Technical Assistants - Land Husbandry
1    Technical Assistant - Research
C.   Thiwi-Lifidzi Sub-project
Year 1:
1    Senior Technical Officer - Project Supervisor
1    Clerical Officer
Year 2:
2    Technical Officers - Extension and Training
1    Technical Officer - Credit
1    Technical Officer - Land Husbandry
1    Technical Officer - Tobacco Specialist
20    Technical Assistants - Extension and Training
1    Technical Assistant - Research
2    Technical Assistant - Farm Home Instructresses
I    Technical Assistant - Forest Ranger
1    Typist
D.   Kawinga Sub-project
Year 2:
1    Chief Technical Officer - Project Supervisor
1    Technical Officer - Research
February 17, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(          Summary of Project Costs
(MK '000)
Foreign      Foreign
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4                Exchange    Exchange
Reference         (1976/77)  (1977/78)  (1978/79)  (1980/81)    Total           %         Total
Karonga Rural Development Project
Extension                               Annex 8, Table 2         200.5       222.3       190.4       105.5      718.7      42         304.7
Land husbandry                          Annex 8, Table 3          54.4        42.0        39.5         7.0      142.9      37          53.1
Livestock                               Annex 8, Table 4          68.0        90.6        63.2        40.4      262.2      40         104.4
Construction Unit                       Annex 8, Table 5         291.5       271.4       130.6        42.9      736.4      50         371.2
Research                                Annex 8, Table 6          62.6        59.5        50.3        35.6      208.0      43          88.6
Hydrology                               Annex 8, Table 7          41.6        44.7        28.8        20.9      136.0      53          72.0
Mechanical Maintenance                  Annex 8, Table 8          74.5        44.9        34.6        15.3      169.3      72         121.2
Finance ( Accounting Services)          Annex 8, Table 9         189.9       186.2       148.3       100.8      625.2      45         280.2
On-Farm Credit                          Annex 3, Table I          42.9        50.6        48.7        31.2      173.4      85         147.4
Evaluation                              Annex 8, Table 10         55.8        45.7        48.5        30.6      180.6      45          81.0
management Unit                         Annex 8, Table 11         73.3        68.8        55.7        56.5      254.3     42          106.2
ADMARC                                  Annex 8, Table 12        158.0       158.0       150.0         -        466.0      30         139.8
Health                                  Annex 8, Table 13        144.0       160.4        47.3        47.3      399.0      41         165.5
Sub-total                                        1,457.0    1,445.1    1,035.9         534.0   4,472.0       45      2,035.3
NRDP  Pre-investment Phase              Annex 8, Table I a  1,012.1    1,264.3              -           -    2,276.4       52       1,190.6
Lake Transportation                     Annex 13                 429.0    1.107.0           -           -    1536.0        72     1j104.0
Base Cost                                        2,898.1    3,816.4    1,035.9         534.0   8,284.4       52      4,329.9
Contingencies - physical 1/                               174.5       256.6        65.3        43.1      539.5      52         280.5
- price    2/                              362.2       937.1       425.4       334.4   2.059.1       52       1.070.7
Project Cost                                     3.434.8    5._010. 1    1.52          911.5  10.883.0      52       5.681.1             3
1/  10% for Lake Transportation and 5% on all other items.  Contingencies on the credit component are based on total input requirements.   ' X
2/  Civil Works and Lake Transportation component 13% in Year I and 12% in Year 2 - 4, other items 9% in Year 1 and 8% in Years 2 - 4.                  0 
Contingencies on the credit component are based on total input requirements.
March 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
NRDP - Pre-investment Phase
Summary
(MK)
Year 1          Year 2                           F. Exch.        F. Exch.
Reference       (1976/77)      (1977/78)           Total            %               Total
1. Central Services
(a)  Land resources survey   Annex 8, Table 14    83,750          58,640         142,390             56            80,322
(b)  Agro economic survey                   15    65,100          36,686         101,786             44            44,681
(c)  Crop experiments                       16    29,771          30,848          60,619             44            26,583
(d)  Evaluation Unit - Mzuzu                17    75,962          19,996          95,958             38            36,277
(e)  Accounts, road construction            18
and consultancies                            299,770        487,661         787,431             74           585,076
Subtotal (1)                                554,353         633,831       1,188,184             64           772,939
2. Mzimba Sub-project                   "        19   162,640        229,694         392,334             44           171,220
3. Thiwi/Lifidzi  Sub-project                    20   222,040        140,997         363,037             37           134,532
4.  Kawinga Sub-project                          21      __          197,160          197,160            35            69,824
5.  Markets and Input Stores (ADMARC)            22    30,000         60,000          90,000             30            27,000
6. Health                                        23   43,080           2,623          45,703             33            15,039
Total                                      1,012 113     11264.305        2.276.418             52         1.190.55   c 
March 2,1976






MALAWI                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 8
1883.601                                                                 Table 2
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMHNT PROGRAM - PHASE II
Extension
(MK )
Unit                         Year I        Year 2         Year 2        Year 4                  F. Each.    P. Each.
Cast          Grade        (1976/77)    (1977178)       (1978/79)      (1979/80)        Total      Z          ToCal
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
(a) Raron,qa:
4-wheel drive LWB pick-up                                6,670                         6,670         6,670             __               --      13,340        90       12,006
4-wheel drive SW8 7 neater                               6,830                         6,830         6,830             --                       13,660        90       12,294
xtepsion. aids van                                       8,910                           --           --              8,910             --       8,910        90        8,019
Motor cycle                                                600                     (4) 2,400    (5) 3,000              __       --               5,400        90        4,860
Pernonoel carrier                                       12,000                           --         12,000             --               --      12,000        90       10,800
Ecteesion side equipment                                                               1,100         1,100              300             _        2.500        75         1.875
Subtotal (a)                                                                     17,000        29,600            9,210             __      55,810        89       49,854
(b) Chitips:
Personnel carrier                                       12,000                        12,000          --               --               --      12,000        90        10,800
4-wheel drive LWO  pick-up                               6,670                         6,670          --               --               --       6.670        90        6.003
Extension aids vap                                       8,910                          --           8.910             --               --       8,910        90         8,019
Motor cycle                                                600                     (4) 2,400    (4) 2,400       (2)   1,200             --        6,000       90        5,400
Exteunios  eid  equipr.ent                                                             1,600         2,100            1,300            1,000     6,000        75        4,500
Eqnipsent for training  -entor                                                         1,100         1,100              550             --       2,750        75        2,063
Office furniture and equiprent                                                         1,650         1650             1,650             --       4.950        50        2.475
Subtotal (b)                                                                     25,420        16,160           4,700             1,000    47.280       83        39,260
Tots) A (a,b)                                                                    42,420        453760           13,910            1,000   103.090        86       89_114
B.   OPERATING COSTS
(a) S.larian and vogos
(i) KEarona:
Senior Settlement sod
Exttnoion Officer                                 4,050          S9              4,050        4,050            4,050            4.050    16,200        --          --
Principal Field Officer                             3,300          CT0             3,300         3,300           3,300            3,300    13,200         --         --
Sepior Field Officer                                2,500 SST                  (2) 5,000    (2) 5,000      (2)   3,000    (2)    5,000    20,000          --         --
Ficld Officer                                        1,500         TO          (6) 9,000    (6) 9,000      (6)   9,000    (6)    9,000    36,000          --         --
Sonior Field Asnitcant                              1,300          STA         (5) 6,500    (5) 6,500      (5)   6,500    (5)    6,500    26,000          --         --
Field Ansiutant                                       600          TA         t13) 7,800   (16) 9,600    (19)  11,400   (22)   13,200    42,000           -_         __
Face Noe IDstructres-                                 600          TA          (3) 1,800    (3) 1,800      (3)   1,800    (3)    1,800       7,200       --          --
Develop.e.t Assistant                                 360          DA         (10) 3,600   (14) 5,040    (17)   6,120   (20)    7,200    21,960           --         --
Clerical OiMcer                                      400          CO          (2)   800    (2)   800      (2)      800    (2)      800      3,200       --          --
Labourer .                                             80                      (6)   480    (8)   640      (8)      640    (8)       640     2,400       __          __
Driver                                                 700                           700           700              700              00      2,800       __
Subtotal (i)                                                                      43,030       46,430           49,310           52,190   190,960        --          __
(ii) Chitipa:
Principal Field Officer                             3,300          CT0             3,300         3,300            3,300           3,300    13,200         --         --
Field Officer                                       1,500          TO          (2) 3,000    (4) 6,000      (5)   7,500    (5)    7,500    24,000          --         --
Senior Field Asniutont                              1,300          STA         (2) 2,600    (3) 3,900      (3)   3,900    (3)    3.900    14,300         --          __
Field Ansistant                                       600          TA          (5) 3,000    (9) 5,400    (11)   6,600   (12)    7,200    22,200           --         --
FPrn H.oe Inctructr-ss                                600          TA                600           600              600             600      2,400        --         --
Development Assistant                                 360          DA          (4) 1,440    (4) 1,440      (4)   1,440    (4)    1,440       5,760        --         --
Senior Clerical Officer                             1,300          sCo             1,300        1,300            1,300            1,300      5,200       --          --
Labourer                                                80                     (6)   480    (8)   640    (10)       000   (10)      800      2,720        --         --
Driver                                                700                            700           700              700              700     2,800       __
Subtotal (ii)                                                                     16,420       23,280           26,140           26,740    92,580        --          --
Totn1 (a)                                                                         59,450       69,710           75,450           78,930   283,540         --        --
(b)     Other Op-rating Costs:
(i) Karonga:
4-wheel drire LWB pick-op  15,000 m/yr @ 20t        3,000                      (2) 6,000    (2) 6,000      (2)   6,000    (2)    6,000    24,000          90       21,600
4-wheel drive SWB 7 seater 15,000 rnyr @ 18t        2,700                      (2) 5,400    (2) 5,400      (2)   5,400    (2)    5,400    21,600          90       19,440
Extennion aids van          15,000 s/yr @ 22t       3,300                          3,300         3,300            3,300           3,300    13,200         90       11,880
Motor cycle                  9,000 n/yr 0  4t         360                     (12) 4,320   (12) 4,320    (12)   4,320   (12)    4,320    17,280           90       15,552
Personnel carrier           12,000 a/yr @ 28t       3,360                          3,360         3,360            3,360           3,360    13,440        90        12,096
Eicyla allowance                                        21                    (20)   420   (20)   420    (20)       420   (20)      420      1,680       --          --
iiscelleneous                                                                      1.100         1.100            1,100           1,100      4.400        75        3,300
Subtotal (i)                                                                      23,900       23,900           23,900           23,900    95,600        87        83,868
(ii) Chitipa:
Personnel carrier           18,000 m/pyr @ 28t      5,040                          5,040         5,040           5,040            5,040    20,160         90       18,144
4-aheel drive LW8 pick-up  18,000 a/yr 0 20t        3,600                          3,600        3,600            3,600            3,600    14,400        90        12,960
Extepsion ails van          18,000 n/yr 0 22t       3,960                           --           3,960            3,960           3,960    11,880         90       10,692
Motor cycle                  9,080 r/yr @  4t          360                     (4) 1,440    (6) 2,160      (7)   2,520    (8)    2,880       9,000        90        8,100
Moltr cycle                 12,000 r/yr @  4t         480                            480    (3) 1,440      (4)   1,920    (4)    1,920       5,760        90        5,184
Bicycle allonce                                         21                     (4)    84    (4)    84      (4)       84    (4)       84        336        --         --
Lorry 3-too                 10,008 a/yr A 34t       3,400                          3,400         5,400           3,400            3,400    03,600         90       12,240
Min...laneons                                                                        550           550              550              550     2,200        75        1,650
Building mlntenaoe          2 1/2% p...                                            --            1,496           3,201            4,907      9,604        30        2.881
Subtetal (ii)                                                                     14,594       21,730            24,275          26,341    86,940        83        71,851
Total (b)                                                                         38,494       45,630           48,175           50.241   182,540         85      153,719
Total B (a,b)                                                                     97,944       115,340          123,625         129,171   466,080         33      155,719
C.   CIVIL W006S
Staff houses (Appendix 3)                                 __                          44,222        44,222           44,222            3,200   135,866        30       40,760
Trdi=ing Center - Day Training                           121/q.ft.                     9,600          --               --               --       9,600        30        2,880
fraining Center - Resid.ntial                             12/sq.ft.                     --          18,000           18,000             --      36,000        30       10,800
Offices                                                  3,000                     (2) 6,000    (2) 6,000       (2)   6,000             --      18,000        30        5,400
Traditienal house                                           50                     (6)   300          --               --               -_         300
Total C                                                                           60.122        68,222          68,222            3,200   199,766         30       59,840
Grand Total (A,B,C)                                                              200.486       229,322          205,757          133,371   768,936        40      304,673
Lesn Recurrent Costs (Anse.  8, Appendix 1)                                         --           7.000           15,360           27.900    50,260        --
Grand Total                                                                      200.486      222.322          190.397          105.471   718.676        42       304.673
March 2, 1976






MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Land Husbandry
QMK)
JJflItL   Grsd   yeYr2.   Ye.          .ar  R.. Y e"        r          4        Tot,a       Foreism    lgreiu AW&Sbnze
Cost            .(i76/771       (1977/78)    C17781'791.       (lq79/8o)                    zSbiA          Total
A. CAPITAL COSTS
L4-.Vhoel drive LWB pick-up                         6.670             6.670              -             -               -            6.670          90       6.003
Motor Cycle                                           600          (2) 1.200             -             _               _             1.200         90       1.080
Tentage                                                                1.000             -              -              -             1.000         90          900
Survey Equipment                                      400          (8) 3.200             -                                           3 200         90       2.880
TOTAL A                                                12.070              -             _               _           12.070          90      10,863
B. OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages
Land Husbandry Officer                               5.700    PO        5.700             5,700        5.700             -           17.100         50        8.550
Field Officer                                        1.500    TO   (2) 3.000          (2) 3.000    (2) 3.000       (2) 3.000         12.000         -           -
Senior Field Assistant                               1.300   STA        1.300             1.300        1.300             -            3.900         -           -
Field Assistant                                        600    TA   (8) 4.800          (8) 4.800    (4) 2.400             -           12.000         -           -
Labourer                                                80         (16) 1.280        (16) 1.i80    (8)   640             -            3.200         -           -
Driver                                                 700                700               700           700            -            2.100         -           -
Sub total (a)                                              16.780             16,780       13.740           3,000         50.300         17       8.550
(b) Other operating costs
4-iheel drive LWB pick-up 15,000 a/yr at 20t        3.000               3.000             3.000         3.000          3,000         12.000         90       10.800
Motor Cycle                7.500 r/yr at  4t          300           (3)   900         (3)   900    (3)   900        (3)  900          3.600         90        3.240
Building Maintenance 2 1/2d p.sa.                                                           520         1.041          1.561          3.193037
Sub total (b)                                                3.900                440       4.941           5.461         18.722         80      14.977
TOTAL B                                                20.680             21.200       18.681           8.461        69.022          34      23.527
C. CIVIL WORKS
Stsff Houses  (Appendix 3)                                            20.810             20.810       20.810 o                       62.430         30       18.729
Traditional House                                      50         (16)    800                                                           800          _         _
TOTAL C                                                21.610             20.810       20.810             -          63.230          30      18.729
GRAND TOTAL (A,P & C)                                         54.360            42.010       39.491           8.461        144.322         37       53.119
Less recurrent costs (Annex 8, Appendix 1)                           -                      -              1.500         1.500
54.360            42.010        39.491          6.961        142.822         37       53.119
March 2,, 1976
It 00



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
livestock
Unit     Grade      Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4            Total    Foreign     Foreign
0 n-t                 7677)       1 7          (1977/779)    (i7jzo)                ,                  cSe
A. CAPITAL COSTS
4-*heel drive LWB pick-up    6.670                  -          6.670           -              -              6.670       90         6.003
4-wheel SWB 7 seater         6.830                  -          6.830           -              -              6.830       90         6.147
Pumps and hoses                                   1.000        2.000          1.odo           -              4.000       90         3.600
Refrigerator                   600                  600          600           -              -              1.200       90         1.080
Ofice furniture & &quip-                            -            600           -              -               600        50           300
ment
Veterinary equipment                                600          -             -              -                600       90           540
Ploughe & chains etc.                               500          400            400          100             1.4oo       50           700
TOTAL A                                2.700        11M           _.400           100            21.300         i       1.7
B. OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Senior ANal Husbandry        6.080   S 9          6.080        6.080         6.080          6.080           24.320       50        12.160
Officer
Field Officer                 1.500      TO  (2) 3.000    (2) 3.000    (2) 3.000        (2) 3.000           12.000       -
Veterinary Assistant           600       TA  (8) 4.800    (8) 4.800    (8) 4.800        (8) 4.800          19.200                     7
Field Assistant                600       TA  (3) 1.800    (3) 1.800    (3) 1.800        (3) 1.800            7.200
Clerical Officer               600       CO         600          600           60D            600            2.400
Develo_.nt Assistant           360       DA  (4) 1.440    (4) 1.440    (4) 1i4Ah6       (4) 1.440            5.760
lAbourer                        80            (5) 4.080    (5) 4.080    (5) 4.080       (5) 4.080           16.320
Driver                         700                 _700 0700                                                 2.800       -
Subtotai (a)                            22.500        22.500        25            22.500           90.000 5
(b) Other opernting costs:
4-wheel drive - pick up
18.000 m/yr at 20t 3.600              3.600         3.600        3.600          3.600           14.400        90       12.960
drive 7 seater -
18.00 a/yr at 18t 3.2140              3.240         3.240        3.240          3.240           12.960        90       11.6614
Water supplies and pumps                          2.200        1.100         1.100          1.100            5.500       50         2.750
Dipping fluid                   120          (22) 2.640   (23) 2.760   (24) 2.880      (24) 2.88o           ii.16o       5O         5.580
Drugs and vaccines                                3.000        3.000         3.000          3.000           12.000       90        10.800
Seeds and fertilizer                                500          500           200            100            1.300       90         1.170
Bicycle allounna                 21           (4)   84    (4)   84    (4)   84           (4)   84              336       -
Miscellaneous                                     1.000        1.000           600            400            3.000        50        1.500
Borehole maintenance             40                 -       (2)   80    (5)  200        (8)  320               600       30           180
Lufita Agriculture Center I/                      4.457        6.267         6,267          6.267           23,258       29         6,701
Chisi Hill Grazing Scheme 2/                        911          911           911            911            3.644        -
Karongs Livestock Center  3/                      2.950        2.950         2.950          2.950           11.800        32        3.816
Building Maintenance 2 1/2? p.R.                   _             327           798          1.032            2.157        30          647
Subtotal (b)                          24.58a        25.819       25.829          25.884         102.115        57        57.846
TOTAL B                           47.082        48.319       48.329          48.384         l9.115        16        70_06
C. CIVIL WORKS
St aEoungs (Appendix 3)                           7.562        7.562         7.562           -              22.686       3o         6.8C6
Traditional house                 50          (4)  200           -             -             -                 200        -            -
Offices                                              -         4.000           -             -               4.000        30        1.200
Stores                                               -         1.800         1.800           -               3.600       30         1.080
Diptank                         5.500             5.500        5.500           -             -              11.000        30        3.300
Borehole                        2.500         (2) 5 aOO    (3) 750       (3) 7.500           _              20.000        30        6.oo
TOTAL C                           18.262       26.362        16.862           -             61.486        30
GRAND TOTAL (A B & C)                  68.o39        91.776       66.587          48.479         274.881        39       106.762       f
Less recurrent costs (Annex 8,
Appendix 1)      -            1 200        3.395           8.050          12.645        18         2 357
68.03        907           63.192 6_____                  262.236   6
1/ Details in Table 4 (a)
2/ Details in Table 4 (b)
3/ Details in Table 4 (c)
March 2, 1916



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Lufita Agricultural Center
(MK)
Unit     Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4                 Foreign Exchange   Foreign Exchange
a)  Personal Emoluments   Grade             Cost   (1976/77) (1977/78) (1978/79) (1979/80)   Total               Z                  Total
Technical Officer       TO              1,500 
Technical Assistant    TA                 600        -          --                   -         - 
Veterinary Assistant   TA                            600        600       600        600    2,400            -
Messenger                                            170        170       170        170       680           -
Labourer                                   80  (10) 800  (10) 800  (10_800  (10) 800    3,200               -
Sub-total a)                                   1,570      1,570      1,570      1.570    6,280            -
b)  Operating Costs
Bicycle allowance                          21   (2)  42   (2)  42   (2)  42   (2)  42          168           -                    -
Fuels and implements                                 100        100       100        100       400          90                  360
Fertilizer & seeds                                   850        850       850        850    3,400           75                2,550
Fencing maintenance   10% p.a.                                  250       250        250       750          30                  225
Building maintenance  2 1/2% p.a.                            1,460      1,460      1,460    4,380           30                1,314
Roads maintenance      3% p.a.                       150        150        150       150       600          30                  180
Water supplies                                     1,380      1,380     1,380      1,380    5,520           30                1,656
Supplementary feed @ MK5 per head of cattle(53)  265  (73) 365  (73) 365  (73) 365    1,360                 10                  136
Dipping drugs, disinfectants                         100        100        100       100       400          90                  360
Sub-total b)                                   2,887      4,697      4,697      4,697   16,978           40                6,781
Total (a+b) -                               4,457      6,267      6,267               23.258          29
1/   Included in Table 4.
March 2, 1976
A 



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Chisi Hill Grazing Scheme
(MK)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4             Foreign Exchange    Foreign Exchange
(1976/77)  (1977/78)  (1978/79)  (1979/80)   Total             Z                  Total
Maintenance of paddocks                         400         400         400        400       1,600           -                     -
Maintenance of herdmen's hut                     30          30          30         30         120           -                    -
Development Assistant                           360         360         360        360       1,440           -                    -
Bicycle allowance                                21          21          21         21          84           -                     -
Pasture Improvement                             100         100         100        100         400           -                    -
Total 1                                      911         911         911        911       3,644                                -
1/ Included in Table 4.
March 2, 1976
_s
.5!



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Karonga Livestock Center
(MK)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3      Year 4                Foreign Exchange  Foreign Exchange
Unit Cost   (1976/77) (1977/78) (1978/79)  (1979/80)   Total                %               Total
Water                                   220       220        220       220        880
Labourer                   80      (10) 800   (10)800   (10) 800   (10) 800     3,200
Herdsmen                   80       (3)240    (3)240    (3)240    (3)240          960             -                 -
Fertilizer                              850       850        850       850      3,400             90              3,060
Tools and implements                    100       100        100       100        400             75                300
Fence maintenance, 10% p.a.             200       200        200       200        800             30                240
Supplementary feed                      540       540        540       540      2,160             10                216
Total -                            2,950     2,950      2,950               11,800             32              3,816
1/   Included in Table 4.
March 2, 1976
0I
n
_ R



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE II
Construction Unit
(MK)
Unit                             Year 1               Year 2            Year             Year 4                     F. Exch.         F  bh.
Toat          Grade                                 (1976/77)         (1(977779U)    Total                                           7____
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
4-vheel drive LWB pick-up                  6,670                      (4) 26,680                 6,670             --                --        33,350          90              30,015
Motor cycle                                  600                      (4)   2,400          (2)   1,200             __                __         3,600          90               3,240
Lorry - 7-ton flat                         14,850                          14,850               14,850             --                --        29,700          90              26,730
Lorry - 7-ton_t!"er                        15,500                     (2)  31, oo          (2)  31,000             __                          62,000          90              55,800
Lorry - fl-too                                                                           --        45800           90             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41,220
Lorry -l-ton flat                         22,900                           22.900               22,900             --45,800                                    90
Trcto- 165                                 11,2860-                                             10,280              _10,280                                    90               9,
Tr ctor  185                               ii,66o01~                                            11,66o                                        ~~ 23,320        90              20,988
Tractor and tovedjpader                    13,200                          13,200                 -                --                --        13,200          90              11,880
Tipping trailer - 6 ton                     5,500                           5,500                 --               --                --         5,500          90               4,950
Trailer for 4-wheel drive                   1,200                           1,200                                                               1,200          90               i,olo
w tor bovser (500 gals)                     1,500                           1,500                1,500             --                --         3,000          90               2,700
Office equipsent sod furniture                                              2,000                                                               2,000          50               100
Tools and equipeent                                                         54 l40o0                                              __        10,000          V                9.000
Total A                                                          13728SO             104.060            1 000              __       24295o            0             217855
B.       ATlf    COSTS
(a) Slarie  and Wages:                             0
Chief Works Supervisor                     4,95o         CTO                4,95o                4 95            4,fO              4,95o      19,8oo          5
aiior Works Supervisor                     2,500         STO          (1)   --             (1)   --          (1)              (1)                -_            __                 _
Ibas tuierriwor                             1,500        TO           (1)   --             (1)   --          (1)--            (1)   __           __
Slnior Irrigation 4L& Assiatant(Lufira)    2,500         8T0          (1)   --                    --               __                __
Survey Leveller (laEftrei                    600         TA           (1)    --                   --               __                __          __            _                  _
Field Assistant Constr. (Lftire)              600        TA           (1)               --                 --       __               __          __            _      
Senior Building Assistant                   1,300        STA          (1)   -(1)    --                       (1)   --         (1)   --           __            __                _
Drerten                                      600         TA           (1)   --             (1)    --         (1)   __         (1)    __          __            _
Clerical Officer                             600         CO            2)   -_2) )    --                     (2)              (2)   --           -_            __
Field Assistant Constr.                       600        TA            4)   --             (4)    -          (4)              (4)   __           __            _      
Assistant Forman                              360        DA           (o)   --            (lo)    --         (10)  __        (10)   __           __            __                 __
Various other labourers (incl.
Olassified Wrmn, Plant
Opertors and Disivsrs)                                                                                           -                 -                          _               -
Subtotal (a)                                                      4,950                4,95            4,95o             4,95o      19,800          50                9,900
(b) Other Opersting Costs:
Tractor towed grader (rain-fed rice)         h5qthr                  (788)  3,546        (788)   3,546     (788) 3,546    (788)  3,546         14,184          90               12,766
Driver and 2 labourers                       oO                               860                  860              860               860       3,440           --
Coletion and uaidtenaone Lufirs                                            10,000               10,000           10 000            10,000      40,000           _-                __
Building maintenance 2 1/2% p5a.                                                                                  1,004            1,231       2,737           30
Borehole sioten nce                            40                            --                   1,200           2,360             3,200       6,760           30               2,MA
Road mintenance 3% p..                                                       --                  116o             2,736             4,313       8209             O               263
Subtotal (b)                                                     14,406               17,268           20,506            23,150      75,330           24              18,078
Total B                                                                                2-22 U8  28,100 S                                        1
C.  CIVIL WORS8
Stafr bouss  (Appendix 3)                                                   9.074                9,074            9,074              __        27,222           30               8,*
Omfies ao  stones                                                           5,600                  000                '-                        10,000          30               3 000
aim  s1f   - Cbitip                                                         6,000                6,oo               --                          12000           30               3,600
TaSltiasi bus                                  50                    (10)    500                   --              --                --            500          --                --
SCoIe                                       2,500                    (30)  75,000          (29)  72,500      (21) 52,500             __       200,000           30              6o,o0o
Road construction                          AL.5_0.i                   (12) 18,000          (12   18,000      12) 18,000      -a5  12,75o        66,750          30              20, a
Road ixprovement                             _100/d ;                 (14)   1110          (14)   1,4 (00    14)  1,4       (12.5)  1,250        5,450          30               1,635
Culvert                                       250                     (5)   1,250           ()   1250        (5)   1,Eo        (5)   1,250      5,000           30               1,500
Minr bridge                                 1,200                    (15)  18,000          (22) 26,4oo      (22) 26,4oo       (8)   9,600       80,4D0          30              24,120
Drift                                      5,500                             --                     005,500                                     ll- 11MO3000
Total C                                                           4 214 124                                              24,850      418,322          _ 
Grand Total (A,BSC)                                                   291,470              g7,h,q           140,580            52j, 50     756402           i9
Lse recurrent costs                                                         --                    -1 IQOOO                          10.000      20,000            -               --
(_Ax 8, Appndix 1)
291&470                   402         130R0             4L50        76L               0             371 ISO
U    Except for the salary of the Chief worka Supervisor, salaries and Vages  and plant and vehicle operating costs ara included
2   th  unit cost of Civil Works.
Way   2, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                              s;



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVEOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE II
(MK)
Unit                          Year 1             Year 2          Year 3                  I                     F. EKch      F. Mxch
os t          Grade         (197677)           (977/78)          1L9              (19980)          Total        -1To
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
4-wheel drive LWB pick-up                              6,670                           6,670             6,670               __                __         13,340           90          12,006
Motor cycle,                                             600                             --                600               --                              600           90             540
Ploughs and other implements                                                           3,500               --                --                            3,500           50           1,750
Laboratory and other equipment                                                         4,000             1,000             1,000             1,000         7,000          75            5,250
Work oxen                                                100/pair               (5)      500                ,                                                500           _              _
Total A                                                                                     _14.670  8270      1.000            1.000        24.940           _           iq s46
B.  OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Research Officer                                       2,700           PO              2,700             2,700             2,700             2,700        lO,8oO           --             --
Senior Field Officer                                   2,500           STO            2,500              2,500              2,500            2,500        10,000           __             __
Field Officer                                          1,500           TO       (2)    3,000      (2)    3,000       (2)    3,000      (2)   3,000        12,000           --             --
Field Assistant                                          600           TA      -(2)    1,200      (4)   2,400        (6)    3,600      (6)   3,600        10,800           --
Development Assistant                                    360           DA       (2)      720      (4)    1,440       (4)   1,41.0      (4)   1,400         5,040           --             --
Clerical Officer                                         600           CO                600               600                600              600          2,100          -              --
Labourer                                                  80                   (g0)    2,400     (30)    2,400      (30)    2,400     (30)   2,400          9,60           --_
Driver                                                   700                   -t      1,40       (2)    1,400       (2)    1.4oo      (2)    .400          5.6o                          --
Subtotal (a)                                                                    14,520             16,440            17,6140          17,640         66,240          --
(b) Other Operating Costs:
4-Wheel Drive LWB pick-up 15,000 m/yr at 20t           3,000                    (3)   9,000        (3)    9,000      (3)    9,000       (3)   9,600        36,000          90           32,400
Motor cycle                9,000 m/yr at  4t             360                             360                360               360               360         1,440          90            1,296
Tractor -165                                           2.70/hr.              (1200)   3,240   (1200       3,24o   (12oo)    3,240   (1200)   3,240         12,960          90           11,664
Seed.. fertilizer, insecticides                                                        1,000             2,000              2,000            2,000          7,000          75            5,250
Miscellaneous                                                                          1,000             1,000              1,000            1,000          4,000          50           2,000
Bicyle allowance         --                               21                    (2)       42      (4)       84       (6)      126      (6)     126            378          --             __
Building mairrtenance 2 1/2% p. a.                                                                         416                832            1.209         2.1F5..30                      7R7
Subtota1 (b)                                                                    14,642             Z6G 1i6,i55,8                      16,q3S         64s235          83           53,347
Total B                                                                  29,162 !92,5A0                                                                         k        d 2 1  2 4411
C.  CIVIL WORKS
Staff houses  (Appendix 3)                                                            15,123             15,123            15,123                ,         45,369          30           13,611
Office and store                                                                       1,500              1,500                                 --          3,000           30             900 l .h
Traditional houses                                        50                    (2)      100       (2)      100              __                 __            200           __             _-
Access roads                                                                           2.000              2,000              -._0k __                                                           IiI3 1.200 cs
Total C                                                                 j                   18.723            V2                              IS3
Grand Total (A,B&C)                                                                                                     0 5A 50.2                                                  _88.604
March 2, 1976.



MALAWI
KARORGA RURAL DEVF1OPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE II
Hydrology
unit                 Year 1         Year 2              (1 3          Year 4              F. Exch. F. Ech.
t-t  Grade   (17     7       (,")  ~            (19971          1--76       Total731             Totaa
A,   CAPITAL COSTS
4-wheel drive LWB pick-up                                 6,670                6,670           6,670               --                      13,340      90     12,006
Motor cycle                                                 600                  600             --                --              --         600      90        540
Gauging equipmert                                                              7,000           5,000             5,000              --     17,000      90     15,300
Meteorological equipment                                                       2,000             --                --               --      2,000      90      1,800
Miscellaneous                                                                  1,500           1,500               --                       3       7       2,250
Total A                                                       17.770          13,170             5,000              --     3           0      31,896
.   OPERATING COSTS
(a)  Salaries and Wages:
Hydrologist                                               5,700       P0       5,700           5,700             5,700           5,700    22,800       50     11,400
Field Officer                                             1,500       TO       1,500           1,500             1,500            1,500     6,ooo      --        --
Field Assistant                                             600       TA  (3)  1,800    (3)   1,800       (3)    1,800    (3)   1,800       7,200        
Driver                                                      700                  700             700                700             700     2,800      --        --
Labourer                                                     80          (15)  1,200   (15)   1,200    (15)    1,200   (15)   1,200         4,800      --        --
Development Assistant                                       360       DA  (8)  2.880    (8)   2,880       (8)    2,880    (8)   2,880    11,520        --        --
Subtotal (a)                                                 13,780          13,780            13,780          13,780    55,120       21     11,400
(b)  Other operating costs:
4-wheel drive 15,000 m/yr @ 20t                           3,000           (2)  6,ooo    (2)   6,ooo       (2)    6,000    (2)   6,ooo    24,000        90     21,600
Mbtor cycle    6,000 m/yr @  4t                             240           (2)    480    (2)      480      (2)       480    (2)      480     1,920      90      1,728
Bicycle allowance                                            21           (8)    168    (8)      168      (8)       168    (8)      168       672      --        --
Building maintenance  2 1/2% p.a.                                               --                76               351              427       854      30         256
Subtotal (b)                                                  6,648           6,724             6,999           7,075    27,446       86     23,584
Total B                                                      20,428          20,504            20,779          20.855    82,566       42     34,984
C.   CIVIL WORKS
Staff houses   (Appendix 3)                                                    3,023           3,023             3,023              --      9,069      30      2,721
Office and store                                                                --             8,ooo               --              --       8,ooo      30      2,400
Traditional house                                            50           (8)   1400             --                 --              --         400     --
Total C                                                       3,423          11,023             3,023                 _               29      5,121
Grand Total (A,B&C)                                          41 621          44,697            28,802          20,855   135,975       53     72,001
March 2, 1976                                                                                                                                        -      _|



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE II
Mecnianical Mait-tea.axce
(MK)
Unit                     Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4                 F. Exch.      F. Exch.
CSt       Grade         (1976t77)     (1977/78)       (1978/79)     (1979[80)       Total                   Total
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
Mobile workshop                               10,000                      10,000           --              --              -      10,000       90          9,000
4-wheel drive LWB pick-up                      6,670                       6,670          6,670           6,670                   20,010      90          18,009
Mechanical tools                                                          10.000            -                                     10,000    - 90           g,g
Total A                                                         26,670          6,670           6,670          __       40010       2
B.   OPERATING COSTS:
(a) Salaries and wages: 1
Chief Mechanical Supervisor                    4,950     CTO               4,950          4,950           4,950          4,950    19,800      50           9,900
Mechanical Supervisor                          1,500     TO          (1)    --      (1)    --       (1)    --      (1)    --        __        __            __
Clerical Officer                                 600     CO          (2)    __      (2)    __       (2)    __      (2)    __
Chargehand                                       800     TA          (2)    __      (2)    --       (2)    __     (2)    --         __        __            __
Driver +various  mech., welders, etc.            700                                                            --           --
Subtotal (a)                                                     4,950          4,950           4,950         4,950    19,800       50           9,900
(b) Other Operating Costs:                          ~850850850850                                                                     3,0          03,0
Generator  80 KVA                                                           ,0              ,0             ,0             ,0      34oo        9306c
Generator   6 KvA                                                          4,9oo          4,900           4,9oo          4,900   1.9,600      90          17,640
Generator  25 KVA                                      ~~~~~~~1,800    1,800           1,800          1,800     7,200      90           6,48o
Generator  25 KVA                                                            320            320             320            320     1,280      90           1,152
Generator  1.5 KVA                                                         60ooo          6,o0            6,ooo         6,000    24,000       90          21,600
Generator 60 KVA 
Building maintenance 2 1/2% p.a.                                            --4534815                                      967     2,316      30             695
Su 1total (b)                                                   21,520         22,054         22,335         22,487    88,396       88         78,167
Total B                                                         26,470         27,004   _      27.285        27,437    0896                     78,o67
______  ____                          ______       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~81  88,07
C.  CIVI WORKS
Staff houses  (Appendix 3)                                                 6,o49          6,o49           6,o49                   18,147      30           5,444
Mech. workshop                                                             5,200           __              __             __       5,200      30           1,560
Office and stores                                                          5,20                                                               3
Loading ramp                                                                 80                    --             --                 80       30           2146o
Generator house                                                              520           --              --             _-         200      30            150
Carport                                          400                 (9)   3,9O                                          5-,                  30           1,8
Extension mech. store                                                       --            5,200                                    3,6oo      30           1,50-
___    -                      ~~~~~~    ~~~5.200  30   1,560
Total C                                                         21,369         11,249           6,049          __       38,667      3           11600
-   -                          -       _____       __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  __L6
Grand Total (A,B&C)                                             74,59          44,923          40,004        27,437   186 873       73         135,676       X
Less recurrent costs (Annex 8, Appendix 1)                        --                            5,380         12.160   D17,40       82            .526
74.509         44.923          34,624        15,277   169,333       72         121,152
1/   Except for the salary of the Chief Mechanical Supervisor, salaries and wages are included in the unit cost of operating
of all Project vehicles and other mechanical equipment.
March 2, 1976.






KARONGA RORAL DEVELOPNMET PROGRAM - PHASE II                                    ANNEX 6
Finance (Ac eunting Services)                                          Table 9
(94)
Unit                            Year I        Year 2       Year 3            Year 4             F. Each.    F. Each
Cost          Grade           (1976177)    (1977178)    (1978/79)          (1979/80)   Total      %          Total
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
(a) Accannts Section:
Light duty pick-up                                      4,900                           --          4,900             --              4,900     9,800        90        8,820
Office furniture and equipment                                                         2,400         1,200                                      3,600        50        1,800
Accpunting machie. L5000                                                                 -          15,000            --               --      15,000        90        13,500
Subtotal (a)                                                                           2,400       21,100             --              4,900    28,400        85       24,120
(b) Credit Section:
4-wheat drive LWB pick-up                               6,670                      (2)13,340         6,670            --               --       20,010       90        18,009
5-ton lorry                                            12,650                         12,650          --              --               --       12,650       90        11,385
MHter cycle                                               600                      (5) 3,000    (3) 1,800      (2)   1,200       (5)  3,000      9.000       90         8.100
Bicycle                                                   120                      (2)   240           -       (2)      240            --          480       90           432
Office furniture and equipmcent                                                        2,200         2,200            --               --        4,400       50         2,200
Subtotal (b)                                                                          31,430       10,670            1,440            3,000    46,540        86       40,126
Tate1 A (a,b)                                                                         33,830       31,770            1,440            7,900    74,940        86       64,246
B,   OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salarics and Wagfe:
(i) Accounts Section Karonga:
Frincipul Accountant                               24,000          59             24,000       N4,000           24,000             --      72,000        50       36,000
Frincipal Accountant                                4,050          09                -           --               --              4,050     4,050        --         --
Senior Ac.cuntant                                  20500           SEO            2,500         2,500            2,500            2,500    10,000        __         __
Procu.rement Sfficer-Nlctyre                        2,500          50O             2,500        2,500            2,500            2,500    10,000        -          -
Enecutiva Officer                                   150O           E0O        (2) 3,000    (2) 3,000       (2)   3,000       (2)  3,000    12,000
Senior Clerical Officer                             1,300          SCO             5,300        1,300            1,300            1,300     5,200        __         __
Clerical Officer                                      600          CO         (3) 1,800    (3) 1,800       (3)   1,800       (3)  1,800     7,200        --         --
Accounta Assistaut                                    600          Co         (2) 1,200    (2) 1,200       (2)   1,200       (2)  1,200     4,800        --         --
Copy Typist                                           600          D5         (2) 1,200    (2) 1,200       (2)   1,200       (2)  1,200     4,800        __         __
Driver                                                700                     (2) 1,400    (2) 1,400       (2)   1,400       (2)  1,400     5,600
Subtotal a(i)                                                                         38,900       38,900           38,900           18,950   135,650        27       36,000
(ii) Accounts Scction Chitipa:
Senior Clerical Officer                             1,300          SCO             1,300        1,300            1,300            1,300     5,200        --         --
Copy Typist                                           600          D5                600          600              600              600     2,400        --         __
Messenger                                             170                            170          170              170              170       680
Subtotal a(ii)                                                                         2,070        2,070            2,070            2,070     8,280        --         __
. ,, I
Subtotal a (i+ii)                                        -.                          40,970        40,970           40,970           21,020   143,930        25       36,000
(iii) Credit Section Xaronga:
Frincipal Field Officer                             4,950          PO             4,950         4,950            4,950             --      14,850        50        7,425
Principal Field Officer                             3,300          CTO              --            -               --              3,300     3,300        --         --
Accountant                                          1,500          EO              1,500        1,500            1,500            1,500     6,000        --         __
Credit Officer                                      1,500          TO              1,500        1,500            1,500            1,500     6,000        -- 00
Senior Clerical Officer                             1,300          SCO            1,300         1,300            1,300            1,300     5,200        --         --
Senior Credit Asciutant                             1,300          STA            1,300         1,300            1,300            1,300     5,200        -_         __
Credit Ausistant                                      600          TA         (2) 1,200    (5) 3,000       (9)   5,400      (12)  7,200    16,800        --         --
Development Anuistant                                 360          DA        (10) 3,600    (7) 2,520       (3)   1,080             --       7,200        -_         __
Temporary Labourer (6 ronths)                         270                    (36) 4,860   (42) 5,670    (46)   6,210        (46)  6,210    22,950        __         __
Drivers                                               700                     (2) 1.400    (2) 1,400       (2)   1,400       (2)  1,400     5,600
Subtotal  a(iiL)                                                                      21,610       23,140           24,640           23,710    93,100         8        7,425
(iv) Credit Section Chitipa:
Senior Clerical OfMicer                             1,300          SCO            1,300         1,300            1,300            1,300     5,200        --         --
Credit Officer                                      1,500          TO             1,500         1,500            1,500            1,500     6,000        --         --
Credit Assistaut                                      600          TA         (4) 2,400    (5) 3,000       (8)   4,800       (8)  4,800    15,000        _-         __
Driver                                                700                     (3) 2,100    (3) 2,100       (2)   1,400       (2)  1,400     7,000
Subtotal a(iv)                                                                        7,300         7,900            9,000            9,000    33,200        --         --
Subtotal a(iii+iv)                                                                    28,910       31,040           33,640           32,710   126,300         6        7,425
Subtotal (a)                                                                          69,880       72,010           74,610           53,730   270,230        16       43,425
(b) Other Oneratino Costs
(4) Accounts Sectione
Light car                   15,000 n/yr 0 lIt       1,650                     (2) 3,300    (2) 3,300       (2)   3,300       (2)  3,300    13,200        90       11,880
Light duty pick-up          20,000 n/yr @ 13t       2,600                          2,600        2,600            2,600            2,600    10,400        90        9,360
Printing and stationery                                                           2,500         2,500            2,500            2,500    10.000        75        7,500
liaiutenance Blcutyre  ffire                                                       3,000        3,000            3,000            3,000    12,000        25        3,000
Subtotal b(i)                                                                         11,400       11,400           11,400           11,400    45,600        70       31,740
(ii) Credit Section,
4-wheel drive iWB pick-up  15,000 n/yr @ 20t        4,000                     (3)12,000    (4)16,000       (4)  16,000       (4) 16,000    60,000        90       54,000
Motor cycle                 15,000 n/yr @  4t         600                      (8) 4,800    (9) 5,400      (9)   5,400       (9)  5,400    21,000        90       18,900
Lorry 5-ton                  6,000 n/yr @ 34t       2,040                     (2) 4,080    (2) 4,080             2,040            2,040    12,240        90       11,016
Bicycle alluownce                                      21                    (16)   336   (17)   357    (20)       420      (20)    420     1,533        -_         __
Stationery                                                                        5,050         3,000            5,000            5,000    20,000        75       10,000
Subtotal b(ii)                                                                        26,216       30,837           28,860           28,060   114,773        06       98,916
(iii) Building maintenance 2 1/2%. p.a.                                                   __          1,201            2,177            3,084     6,462        30        1,939
Subtotal b                                                                            37,616       43,438           42.437           43,344   166,835        79      132,595
Total B (a+b)                                                                        107,496      115,448          117,067           97.074   437,065        40      176,020
C.   CIVIL WORKS
Staff Houses   (Appendix 3)                                                          36,297        36.296           36,296            9,600   118,489        30       35,547
Offices - Accounts                                     12/sq.ft.                (488) 5,856  (160) 1.920                               --        7,776       30         2,333
Offices - Credit                                       121/sqft.                 (225) 2,700         --               --               --        2,700       30           810
Input Stores                                              400                     (8) 5,200    (2)   800              --               --       4,000        30        1,200
Traditional House                                          50                     (10)   500          _               --               --          500       --          --
Total C                                                                               48.553       39,016           36,296            9._6     1460          38       39,890
Grad Total (A,B,C)                                                                   189,879      186,234          l54>783          114 574   645 470        43      280,156
Lass rcurreet coats                                                                     --           --              6,500           13,800    20.300        --          --
(Anne 8, ApPendix 1)--
189,879      186,234          148,283          1=0.774   625.170        45      280,156
March 2, 1976






KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMTNT PROJECT - PIASE II
Evaluatios
Unit                       Year 1          Year 2        Year 3           Year 4                   F. Exch.        F. Exchi.
Coat       Grade          (1976/77)      (171977/78             )       (19790)        Total          o             Totall
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
4-wheel drive LWB                                  7,880                         7,880             --           7,880            --        1.5,760      90             141,184
Motor cycle                                          600                   (2)   1,200             600            --             --         1,800       90               1,620
Survey and field equipment                                                       1,100             450            45o            __         2,000       90               1,800
Tentage                                                                            600             600            --                        1,200       90               1,080
Bicycle                                              120                   (6)     720                    (6)     720            __         1,440       90               1,296
Calculator                                                                         S               --_ --                                     500       90                 450
Total A                                                      12,000            1,650         9 .50             _        A 22700      9_0              20,430
B.  OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Economist                                          5,700      PO                 5,700           5,700          5,700          5,700       22,800        50             11,400
Statistican/Data Processor                         1,500      TO                 1,500           1,500          1,500          1,500        6,000        _                _--
Field Officer                                      1,500      TO            (2)  3,000     (2)   3,000    (2)  3,000      (2)  3,000       12,000        --               --
Field Assistant                                      600      TA            (4)  2,400     (4)   2,400    (2)  1,200      (2)  1,200        7,200       __                __
Field Enumerator                                     360      DA           (18)  6,480    (18)  6,480   (12) 4,320    (12)  4,320          21,600       __
Clerical Officer                                     600      CO                   600             600            600            600        2,400        -- o
Labourer                                              80                   (18)  1,440    (18)   1,440   (12)    960    (12)    960         4,eoo        --               --
Driver                                               700                    (2)  1,400     (2)   1,400    (2)  1,4oo      (2)  1,400        5,600        _
Subtotal (a)                                   22,520          22,520         18,680         18,680       82,400        14             11,400
(b) Other Operating Costs:
4-wheel drive LWB  24,000 m/yr at 21t              5,o40                    (2) 10,080     (2)  10,080    (2) 10,080      (2) 10,080       40,320        90             36,288
Motor cycle        10,000 m/yr at  4t                400                    (4)  1,600     (4)   1,600    (2)    800      (2)    800        4,800        90               4,320
Bicycle allowance                                     21                   (12)    252    (12)     252    (6)    126      (6)    126          756        --                --
Building maintenance 2 1/2% p.a.                                                   --              227            454            681        1,362        30                 409
Subtotal (b)                                   11,932          12,159         11,460         11,687       47,238        87             41,017
Total B                                                        4.4,42         34,679        304             30,367      129,63        40              5241
C.   OIVIL WORKS
Staff houses  (Appendix 3)                                                       9,074           9,074          9,074            --        27,222        30               8,167
Traditional houses                                    50                    (5)    250     (5)     250    (5)    250      (5)    250        1,000        - 
Total C                                                        9               9,324         9                 250222                 2                8,167
Grand Total (A,B,C)                                          55,776           45,653        48.514          30,617      180,560                      c81014
March 2, 1376.



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOP?4E3T PROJECT -- PHASE II
Management Unit
Unit                   Year 1          Year 2        Year 3         Year 4                F. Exch.      F. Each.
Cost      Grade       (1976/777)     (17775)       (1978/79)       (1979/80)    Total                   'r
A. CAPITAL COSTS
(a)   Karonga:
4-wheel drive LWB 10 seater                               7,880                   7,880         --             ---           7,880        15,760       90          14,184
4-_heel drive LWB pick-up                                 6,670                      --       6,670             --             --         6,670        90           6.003
Motor cycle                                                 600                      600         --             --             --            600       90             540
Office equipment and furniture                                                       600        600             --             --          1,200       50             600
Bicycle                                                     120                (3   360         __-             120            120           600       90             540
Subtotal (a)                                                      9,440       7,270             120          8,000       24,830       88           21,867
(b)   Chitipa:
Office furniture and equipment                                                       600        600             600            --          1,800       50             900
Radio equipment                                                                    4,5oo       4,5oo                                       9,000       90           8,100
Telephone installation                                                             1,000         __             __             __          1,000       90             900
Bicycle                                                     120                      120         --             120            _             240       90             216
Subtotal (b)                                                      6,220       5,100            720             -         12,040       84           10,116
Total A (a.b)                                                    15,660      12,370             840          8,000       36,870        87
B. OPEIRATING COSTS
(a)   Salaries and Wages:
Project Manager                                           4,700      S7            4,700       4,700          4,700          4,700        18,800       --            --
Assistant Project Manager                                 4,45o     S8             4,450       4,45o          4,450          4,45o        17,800       __            __
Senior Executive Officer                                  2,500     SEO           2,500        2,500          2,500          2,500        10,000       __            __
Executive Officer                                         1,500     EO             1,500       1,500          1,500          1,500         6,000       __            __
Senior Clerical Officer                                   1,300     SCO            1,300       1,300          1,300          1,300         5,200       __            __
Clerical Officer                                            600     CO         (4) 2,400   (4) 2,400     (4)  2,400     (4) 2,400          9,600       __            __
Development Assistant (Clerical)                            360     DA         (5) 1, 800  (5) 1 800     (5)  1,800     (5)  1,800         7,200       --            --
Stenographer                                              1,600     Dl             1,600       1,600          1,600          1,600         6,400       --            --
Copy Typist                                                 600     D5               600         600            600            600         2,400 -o                  __
Telephone Operator                                          600     CO         (2) 1,200   (2) 1,200     (2)  1,200    (2)  1,200          4,800       -_            __
Messenger                                                   170      SCIV      (5)   850  (5)   850      (5)    850      (5)    850        3,400 -o                  __
Watchman                                                    170      SCIV      (6) 1,020  (6) 1,020      (6)  1,020      (6) 1,020         4,080       --            --
Driver                                                      700                (2) 1,400   (2) 1,400     (2)  1,400      (2)  1_400        5,600       --
Subtotal (a)                                                    25,320  -  25,320           25,320         25,320       101,280       --            --
(b)  Other Operating Costs!
4-wheel drive LWB 10  - 15,000 a/yr at 22t               3,300                (2' 6,600   (2) 6,600     (2) 6,600      (2)  6,600        26,400       90          23,760
4-wheel drive LWB pick-up- 15,000 m/yr at 20t             3,000                    3,000       3,000          3,000          3.000        12,000       90           W.MS
Motor cycle - 10,000  /yr at lit                            400                     4 o00 b400                                 400         1.600       s            1.440
Telephone and _t_                                                                 5,        5O             5,000 ,0l0lD                20  0110     n           4,000
Water                                                                              1,200       1,200          1,200          l.0           14l8eo      --             --
Radio licenses                                                                       100         100            100            10u           ko        -             --
Stationery                                                                        5,000        5,000          5,000          5,000        20,000       75          15,000
Technical Journ le                                                                  600          600            600            600         2,1.0       90           2,160
Air fare                                                     90               (5o) 4,50   (   14,500    (50)  4,500    (50) 4,500         I8,000       75          13,500
Charter flight                                              600                (2) 1,200   (2  1,200     (2)  1,200     (2)  1,200         b,800       75           3,600
Subsistence sllemace                                                              3,500        3,500          3.500          3.0          14,000       -             __
Nev staff appoatinont.                                                               800         800            800            800         3,200       20             640
Vehicle insurance                                            50                (           (3)   150      (3)   150     (3)    150           600       =
SubtoAtl (b)                                                     32,050      32,050          32,050         32.050      128,200        se          74,180
Total B (a,b)                                                    57,370      57 370          57,370         5'.370      229aW10        32          74180
C. CIVIL WORKS
Traditional bore                                             50                (5)                                                           250 
Gtme Total (A, B,C)                                              73.280      69,740          5AM.           65,3'0      266.600        40         106,163
la" tocerrat cot                                                     --                         SW           8 830           310-
_8, ^_x 1) =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.a                                                      a          k           106.163
(AMMe  B. cx  1) 1976
March 2, 1976.



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Markets and Input Stores (ADMARC)
(MK)
Unit        Year 1           Year 2         Year 3           Year 4                     F. Exch.       F. Exch.
Cost      (19 7677)        (1977/78)       (1978/79)       (1979/80)        Total                       Ta l
(a)   Karonga:
Market and input store
complex                         50,000    (2) 100,000   (2) 100,000   (2) 100,000              __          300,000        30            90,000
(b)   Chitipa:
Market and input store
complex                         50,000          50,000         50,000         50,000           --          150,000        30            45,000
Small input sheds                   2,000    (4)   8,000   (4)   8,ooo             _              -6,o                       30             4,800
Total                      158,000         158L000       150,000            --                          0           139,8oo
March 2, 197E






NOlAn                                                                        ANNEX0 8
Tabl 13
RARON04 RURAL. DEELOPMENIT PROGRAMe  - PHASE II
Health
Jolt                           Tee  1        Year 2           Year 3             Year 4                     P. Each.  P. lath.
Cot     Grade         (1976177)      (11977178)      (19 78179)          (1979/80)      Total         T          Tta
A.   CAPITAL C0320
4-ahe:tl drive-    apoo                         7,880                             7,880            --              ---                           7,880          90          7,092
4-ataI drive-  Bilb-arig  Cocoro                7,880                               ao.          7.880                                           7,880          90          7h0922
Tota  A                                                                     7 88           0.0 0                                od...     10200           200
B.   OPEROATIIG COSTS
Wa  Solari-  ead  Wg
Trive-    Kaporo                                   700                              700            700               700               700       2,800           --          -
0700      looBoe                                   480            TA                --             480               480               480       1,440          ---
HA4     S-,o -                                     600            TA                --             600               600               600       1,801 0-
P0WA    -loogr                                     15o-                                            150               150               150          450          --          -
EN/c    M- Sp                                      480            TA                --             --               480                480        1980          --           -
HA          lP.It                                  600            TA                -                                600               600        1200           -           -
004        MPat                                    150                               -                               150               150          300          -            -
to/c      Lopeeh                                   480            TA                ---480                                             480        1960           ---
H4        Loocebe                                  600            TA                 --                              600               600        1200           ---
rOWA      Lopeebe                                  150                              --             --                10                150o         300          -           -
El        BOlh-isoo     ConEra                  2,500            150             2,500          2,500             2.500             2.500       10,00           ---
Drivr  Ritlharri   Conro                           700                              700            700               700               70 0       2,800          -            -
L-boar-                                             Ba                        (6) 480        (6)A480         (6)    480         (6) 480         .1,9202
Sobtota  (o                                                                 4,380          5,610             0.070             8,070       26,130          --           -
(b) Other Opotating H-ee0te:68
4-_dhetl dri-   15.000 a/yr 021t                 3,150                        (2) 6,300      10) 6,300       (2)  6,300          (2) 6,300       25.200          90        2,8
ByI-Me os1-teaa-                                    40                               --             --       (0)      80         (2)    80          160          00             48
OoildIag -alt-va-   2 1/S7T pa..                                                                   66. ...0       .1.080            12.900        4e620           0        ..1.386
So)ool-l (b)                                                                6,300          6,960             0,360             8,360       29.980          00        24,116
Idg-loa                                                                         --              60               60                600        180            7          1,350
Org-crat-                                                                        --             600              60         60                 1,0           75             0
Oegs   Lapatrb-                                                                                   -                600                600       1,200          75            900
lrao  -OiLh-rol   Contro                                                          4.000          4,000             4,000             4,000       16,000          75        12,000
col1t-ettdee                                                                     .0400           2.1.0            .2.500            21.500      100000           75          7 .500
Soboota1 )r)                                                                 6,500          0,100            0,300             8,500       30,200          71        22,6500
Totl-2,0                                                                                  10.20             24.20             12.20        84,210          24A       46764
C.   CITE    RMEC
Ilatroat  Ward - Soog                                                           20,000             --               ---                          0,000          30         6.00C
coterolt  Word -lpata                                                                --         20,0600--                                        20,000          30         6,000
Motarily Oaed -Lopeobo                                                               --         20,000               ---                         20,000          30          6,000
SlatE  Oooer    .  ococo  (Sypo 0        3,000                        (2) 6,400             -                 --                          6,400          30         1/020
SoaEHny          -Ioa (yt  )                     320-                                        (2) 6,480               --                           6,400          30         5.920
Staff  o         - -  pla(yp    05               3,200                               --      (2) 0, 400              ---                          6,400          30          1,920
Oortbole  - Opaoa                   ~~~~~~~~2,500                        --          2,500               ---                          2,500          30           750
Sorsle -Lpao                                                    2,305..oo             ..00               .                    -        .12500          30            75..20
ToaL.  I (Co-ono)                                                           U..00           240&2                             24,730     10627-0           46        86-208
I. Chltiro
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
4-h-ar  dri-a-rKioako                            7,80107oo                                          -                 --                          7  080         60-         7.092
()Sola-ls o-d    sgOa
HA           E knl                                  600            TA                -               0                 0                 8          ,0            -           -
TMMc           lIkla                                 8             TA                --       (2     60       (2)    066        0         0        0800           --          -
MA4        -Melo                                    150                              .-10                             150               050          450          ---
Helva -Mao                                          700                              700            700               700               700       0,800          --           -
HeA         Ifocbo                                  600            74                800            600               600               600        2,400          -           -
0N/M      =Ca  se4800                                              TA                --             --               480                400          960         --           -
He         K- ll e600                                              TA                -                                600               600        1,20           -           -
NWA        K- Iec                                   10                               1-              -                 50               150          3020         -           -
HA        - Woopa                                   600            TA                aOl            600               600               (00        2,400         ---
HA        -thlblr-                                  600            TA                600            600               600               600        2,400          ---
0117       H- tIth Does 1                           300            TA                 -       (3)  1 140      (73 ,2,440         (75  2.660        6.460           --
Sobtota  (aS                                                                 2,500          5,350             0,100             8,100       04,050          --           --
(b5 Otlha Gp-rotOc  Costa:
4-eh-a  drive   05,000 e/ro 0 01t                 3,150                            3,150          3,150             3,150             5,150       12,600          80        11,240
.o.lol h  naroce40                                                                  --       (2)    80       12)      00        (2)    00           240         30             722
IoEdig  iotaaoe   0 1/21 p.o.                                                       --           1,003            3,203             3.285        8,375          30          2.513
Soltot1 (b)                                                                   3,155         5,035             6,505             6,5 15      21,215          66         13,925
()Drags ond Soppli-ee
Ene- clekh   - ea-ooov                                                            --             600              600                600        1,000         75          1,330
Dtogs  X-k5132   -  nbilterloiea                                                      --          1,500             1,500             1,500        4,500          75         3,375
Drgs I f.sAo                                                                          60             600              600               600        2,400          75          0,8000
MCrogs - o r                                                                          --             --               600               600        1200           75            00
.-g~~~~~~~~ W- ~~~~~~~600                                                      600              600                600       2,40C           75          ,800o
Deogs-lhollr-                                                                         600            600              600                600       2,400          75          1,8000
Drags - Oeolh Poet                                  500                              _-       (3) 1.500       (7)  3,500          (7) 3.500        8500           22.         6,3750
Sobtotl ()1,800                                                                              5,400            0,000              0,000      23,200          75         17,400
Totl B                                                                        7,450         1375             2.15               2265        8   6            6           21.2
C.   CIVIL  00RK6
Mlea-ity Ward-MOlsaka                                                              20,OE             ----                                -.       20.000          30          6,000
Meto-aty Wod-FA- Itos--                                                                           20,000               --                         20,000          34          6,000
Osolob Pos  2/                                    5,000                        03)15,000      (4)20,000               --                           5,000          50         10500
Weler Soppip   - 0l,aln                        2,000            --               --                 --        ~~~~~~         ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,000  30  60E
StolE  Mse-           -ks,a        -Irna.         3,200                        (4)12,800             -                 --                          280            3            ,A
SteEt              lfsa -  Ob      -Inyp  0       3,200                        (2) 6,4800            -        --                         --        6400           30           ,2
Staff Hec-       -Ine,e                v   Dt     3,2000-                                     (2) 6,604--                                          6,40           3            ,2
S-aI  Il...      -Wee.             - typ  0       3,200                             0,280            ----                                          3,200          300           960
S-aEOa,-             Oblr-roI                      5203.0                                            -                --                 --        3,200          30            060
6oaOHne    asO    st    tp 1'            5,20                        (3) '9,60      (6111,000                --                          260            3            ,2
Boeoe    I=Esh                            ,0             2,500                             -                 -- 2,500                                   3              5
Borhole           W- sdo                          2,500                           20.002           ,                                     -         2.000          30            750
Tote  0                                                                      7720           5.00---                                        136.400           30
cotal II (ChtiaaP)                                                           92.53          7405             2   857.1                     2.f5~                       79.337
Stead Tota  141                                                             16.9&8.3                         47345             4244       =39,9flfl         41        1654
I ear-Ecro11ed  8a-e/Mtd-eOfe
FWA4   F- Tel  Bar  Atteoat
HA   -HEalh A,eletert
MA4   -  Mgrl Asotasoe
/ Lorottoa   oT'     propose.d health   oss   Chi-egs, ipecaa, Kprol,
taveklaa      pap, Sok-, sad  nTate-
-herl 0, 1976






MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Land Resources Survey
(MK)
Unit                             Year 1                 Year 2                        F. Exch.      F. Exch.
Cost        Grade               (1976/77)              (1977/78)             Total      %             /
A.    CAPITAL COSTS
Airphotography and orthophoto maps                                                     25,000                 25,000            50,000       90         45,000
Miscellaneous equipment                                                                 1.000                  1,000             2,000       90          1,800
Total A                                                                      26.000                 26.000            52.000       90         46,800
B.    OPERATING COSTS  l/
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Senior Professional Officer                        5,700          PO                    5,700                  5,700            11,400       50          5,700
Professional Officer                               2,700          PO             (2)    4,050           (2)   5,400              9,450       --            --
Technical Officer                                  1,500          TO                    1,500                  1,500             3,000       --           --
Technical Assistant                                  600          TA             (2)       600          (2)    1.200             1.800       --            __
Subtotal (a)                                                                 11,850                 13,800            25,650       22          5,700
(b) Other Operating Costs:
Landset imagery processing                                                              2,600                  2,600             5,200       90          L,680
Travel allowance                                                                         4,700                 4,700             9,400       50          4,700
Office rent                                                                             4,000                  4,000             8,000       --            --
Maps and office materials                                                               4,400                  4,400             8,800        75          6,600
Charter air reconnaissance                                                              1,000                  1,000             2,000       90           1,800
Caravan hire                                                                            1,600                  1,600             3,200       50           1,600
Building maintenance  2 1/27 p.a.                                                         --                      540              540       30             162
Subtotal (b)                                                                 18,300                 18,840            37,140       53          19,542
Total B                                                                      30,150                 32.640            62.790       40          25,242
C.    CIVIL WORKS
Staff houses
Type A                                            17,600                               17,600                    --             17,600       30           5,280-
Type D                                             2,000                         (2)    4,000                    --              4,000       30           1,200
Site development charges                           2,000                         (3)    6,000                     -              6,000       30           1.800
Total C                                                                       27,600                   -_             27.600        30          8,280
Grand Total (A,B,C)                                                           83,750                 58,640          142,390        56         80,322
3 >4
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1/ For newly recruited staff 6 months of Year I only.
March 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
NROP - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Agro-Economic Survey
(EA)
Unit                             Year 1                  Year 2                       F. Exch.    F. Exch.
Cost        Grade                (1976/77)             (1977/78)          Total         %           Total
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
Motorcycle                                        600                        (2)   1,200                                   1,200          90         i,u8(
Calculator                                        300                        (4)   1,200                    --             1.200          90         1,080
Office furniture                                                                      500                   500            1,000          50           500
Field equipment                                                                     1,500                 1,500            3,000          90         2,700
Total A                                                                      4,400                  2,000            6,400          84        5,360
B.   OPERATING COSTS  1/
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Professional Officer                            2,700          PO            (2)   5,400            (2)   5,400           10,800          --           __
Senior Technical Officer                       2,500           STO                  1,250                 2,500            3,750          --           --
Senior Technical Assistant                     1,300           STA                    650                 1,300            1,950          --           __
Senior Statistical Clerk                       1,300           SCo                    650                 1,300            1,950          --           __
Statistical Clerk                                 600          CO            (2)   1,200            (2)   1,200            2,400          --           __
Temporary Staff                                                                     2,000                 2,000            4,000          --
Subtotal (a)                                                                11,150                13,700           24,850           --           --
(b) Other Operating Costs:
4-wheel drive  15,000 m/yr @ 21t                3,150                        (3)   9,450            (3)   9,450           18,900          90        17,010
PVHO charges (lorry)                                                                4,000                 4,000            8,000          75         6,000
Motorcycle      10,000 m/yr @  4t                 400                         (2)     400           (2)     800            1,200          90         1,080
Travel allowance                                                                    1,500                 1,500            3,000          50         1,500
Train ng                                                                              250                   250              500          50           250
Maps and office materials                                                           2,500                 2,500            5,000          50         2,500
Computer time                                                                       2,000                 2,000            4,000          50         2,000
Building maintenance  2 1/2% p.a.                                                     --                    486              486          30           146
Subtotal (b)                                                                20,100                20,986           41,086           74       30,486
Total B                                                                     31,250                34,686            65,936          46       30,486
C.   CIVIL WORKS
Staff houses
Type B                                         7,250                                7,250                   --             7,250          30         2,175
Type C                                         4,100                         (2)   8,200                    --             8,200          30         2,460
Type D                                         2,000                         (2)   4,000                    --             4,000          30         1,200
Site development charges                       2,000                         (5)  10,000                    __            10,000          30         3,000
Total C                                                                     29,450                    --            29,450          30        8,835
Grand Total (A,B,C)                                                         65,100                36,686           101,786          44       44,681           1>
1/  For newly recruited staff 6 months of Year I only.                                                                                                                        c
March 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Crop Experiments
(MK)
Unit                           Year l                Year 2                               F. Exch.          F  Exch
Cost          Grade          (1976/77)             (1977/78)              Total              Xota
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Motorcycle                                           600                                 600                  --                                                    540
B.  OPERATING COSTS  1/
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Technical Officer                                  1,500             TO           (2)   3,000          (2)   3,000             6,000               --               --
Senior Technical Assistant                         1,300            STA                   650                 1,300            1,950               --               --
Technical Assistant                                  600             TA           (2)     600           (5)   3,000            3,600               --               --
Labourer                                              80                         (25)   2,000         (50)   4.000             6.000               --               --
Subtotal  (a)                                                                     6,250                11,300           17,550
(b)  Other Operating Costs:
4-wheel drive   15,000 m/yr at 21t                 3,150                          (2)   6,300           (2)   6,300           12,600               90             11,340
PUHO charges (six experimental plots)                150                          (6)     900          (6)      900            1,800              75               1,350
Travel allowance                                                                        1,100                 1,100            2,200               50              1,100
Bicycle allowance                                     21                          (2)      21           (5)     105              126               --               --
Fertilizer and seed trials                                                              4,500                 4,500            9,000               75              6,750
Motorcycle       10,000 m/yr at 4t                   400                                  400                   400              800               90                 720
Building maintenance  2y/% p.a.                                                          --                     243              243               30                  73
Subtotal  (b)                                                                     13,221                13,548          26,769               80              21,333
Total B                                                                     19,471                24,848           44,319               48             21,333
C. CIVIL WORKS
Staff houses
Type C - Mwanza                                    4,100                                4,100                   --             4,100               30               1,230
Type D - Henga & Mzimba                            2,800                          (2)   5,600                   --             5,600               30               1,680
Type D - Gowa, Chonde & Ntchisi                    2,000                                 --             (3)   6,000            6,000               30               1.800
Total C                                                                      9,700                 6,000           15,700               30               4.710
Grand Total (A, B & C)                                                   29.771                30,848          60.619                426583
1/  For newly recruited staff 6 months of Year I only.
March 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE TI
NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Central Services - Evaluation Unit (Mzuzu)
(MK)
Unit                            Year 1           Year 2                     F. Exch.       F. Exch.
Cost           Grade            (1976/77)       (1977/78)        Total         _            Total
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
4-wheel drive LWB pick-up                           6,670                              6,670               --          6,670         90           6,003
Motorcvcle                                             600                                600              --             600        90             540
Bicycle                                                120                        (2)    240               __             240        90             216
Survey and field equipment                                                             2,000               --          2,000         90           1,800
Office equipment and furniture                                                         1000-                           1,000         75             750
Total A                                                          150,510--                                      89           9309
B.   OPERATING COSTS  -/
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Professional Officer                                5,700             PO               2,850             5,700         8,550         50           4,275
Technical Officer                                   1,500             TO                  750            1,500         2,250         --             --
Technical Assistant                                   600             TA          (3)    900      (3)   1,800          2,700         --             --
Development Assistant                                 360             DA          (9)  1,620       (9)   3,240         4,860         --             --
Clerk/Typist                                           600            D                   300              600            900        --             --
Labourer                                                80                        (6)    240       (6)     480            720        __             __
Subtotal (a)                                                      6,660            13,320        19,980         21           4,275
(b) Other Operating Costs:
4-wheel drive  15,000 m/yr at 20t                   3,000                              1,500             3,000         4,500         90           4,050
Motorcycle      10,000 m/yr at  4t                    400                                 200              400            600        90              540
Bicycle allowance                                       21                        (3)      32       (3)     63             95        --             --
Office materials                                                                          500            1,000          1,500        50             750
Computer time                                                                             150              300            450        50             225
Travel allowance                                                                          260              520            780        --             --
Building maintenance 2 1/2% p.a.                                                                         1,393          1,393        30             418
Subtotal (b)                                                      2,642             6,676         9,318         64           5,983
Total B                                                            9 302           19.996         29.298        35          10258
C.   CIVIL WORKS                                                                                 ____
Staff houses
Type A                                             24,700                              24,700              -_          24,700        30           7,410
Type B                                             10,200                              10,200              --          10,200        30           3,060
Type D                                              2,800                         (4) 11,200               --          11,200        30           3,360
Traditional house                                       50                        (9)    450               --             450        --             --
Offices                                              12/sq.ft.                  (800)  9,600                --9,600                  30           2,880
Total C                                                                         5615--                          56,150        30           16,710      3 >
Grand Total (A, B & C)                                                          75,962            19,996        95,958        38          36 277
I/ F,r newly recruited staff 6 months of Year I only.
March 2, 1976



eiKLAWI
EAROIGA RURAL DEVELOPFENT PROJECT - FHASE II
N8DFP - Preinveounnt PEace
MPE
-                            ~~~~~~~~C-t-1a S.-L...s   Account. R. d Con.t-uticn  nd Co-ulIt nLes
Unit                                 Ye-a I                 Year 2                                                  EXCh  P. Erh.
Cost            Grade               (C197677)              (1977/78)             TotaI                             T ota
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
4-shoal drive pick-ep                                       6,670                                  6,670                 6,670              13,340             90              12,006
c ren4,500                                                                                          --4,000                                  4,500             90               4,050
S.lidocer - D6                                             77 400                                   --                  77,400              77,400              90             69,660
Grador    - 12F                                            52.650                                                       52,650              52,050             90              47.385
Fr-t md  lo-der - 920F                                     58,500                                                      52 2,'0             58,500             90              52,650
Roiler                                                     29.250                                   --29 20                                29,250             90              26,325
Valtr taker                                                10,600 D-                                                    10,600              10,600              90              9.540
Lorry 7-ten flt                                           14,850                                   --                  14,650              14,850             90              13,365
Lorry 7-ta tipp-r                                          15,500                                   --            (3)   46,500              46,500             90              41,850
Tractor - 65tp1020-108010,280                                                                                                                                  90               9,252
Tipping tesliar - 6-ton                                     5,500                                  _-                    5.500               5,500             90               42950
Office oquip-ent end furnitur-
f_e1elep tne Accounts Section)                                                               4,800                  1,100               5,900             50               2,950
Office eqaipseet ad furniture
(Credit Accounts Section)                                                                      --                   2,550               2,550             50               1,275
Office equipseet ad fernit-ro
(Pield Credit Sectioo)                                                                        --                      750                 750             50                 375
Office equip_nt end fernitere
(Castr_ctio  Unit)                                                                           --                     2000                2.000             50               1 000
Total A                                                                        11.470                323.100             334570              89            _29,655
B.  OPIRATING COSTS-/
(a) S-i-rirs and Wages:
Finoecisi  Controller                                      30,0002/        S8                     26,000                 26,000             52,000             100             52,000
Sy.tts Analyet/Pr,rg    r                                  30,000          PO                     15,000                 30,000             45,000              75             33,750
Castructico and Coeservatice Officer                       30,000          S8                     30,000                 30,D00             60,000             100             60,000
Chief Accontat                                              3,300          CEO                     1,650                  35300              4,950              --               --
Ocel Aco eeet- t-DeVe1oPn..t Acceats SSc   tia              2,500          S00                     1,250                  2,500              3,750
Acc=ataet-D-vlepoeet Accounts Seccie                        i,500          tO               (4)    3,000          (4)    6,000               9,00               -                -
Actuate Aeeiertnt-Develep.nt Acceunts Ssction                 600          cO               (4)    1,200          (4)    2,400               3,600              --               --
Accouetatt-Credit Ac-c         S..eLectie                   1,500          Bo                        750                  1,500              2,250              __               __
Saner Ac.tect Aeistant-iC,,dit Accoata Sectice              1,300          Sf0                       650                  1,300              1,950-                              -
Field Officer-Credit A.cc.u.t-  Soctin                      1,500          TO                        750                  1,500              2,250
Accaunte Asuiet_nt-Credit Acc-cete Sectio                     600          CO               (2)      600           (2)    1.200              1-8GO
Subtotal (a)                                                                   80,850                105,700             186,550             78             145,750
(b) Other Operatieg Caste
4-thool drive 15,000 s/yr  it 20t                           3,000                                  2,000                  3,000              5,000              90              4,500
Trevel allowance                                                                                   2,000                  5,000              7,000              --               --
Offic  :ton                                                                                        2,000                  4,000              6,000-                              -
Offic  p terielt                                                                                   2,000                  4.000              6.000              50              3,000
Beilding  int nance 2 1/2% p.c.                                                                                           2,861              2.861              30                858
Subtotal (b)                                                                    8,000                 18,861              26,861             31               8,358
(t) Studios and Cessoltsecoeu:
Coffec etudy                                                                                      45,000                   --               45,000              80             36,000
Prjoect preparetie                                                                                10, 0GO                10,0               20,000              80             16,000
ConaulteDciet                                                                                     30.000                 30.000             60.000              80             48.000
Sobeotes  (c)                                                                  85,000                 40,000             125,000             80             100,000
Total B                                                                        173.850               164.561             338.411             74             254 198
C.  CIVIL WORKS
Staff heusee
Type A                                                     17,600                                 17,600                   --               17,600              30              5,280
Type B                                                      7 250                           (7)   50,730                    -               50,750              3G             15,225
Type C                                                      4,10                                   4,100                   --                4,100              30              1,230
Typo D                                                      2,000                           (6)   12,000O                                   12,000              30              3,6400
Site develoP.ent chargee                                    2,000                          (15)   30.0_                     0                                   50              9,000
Total C                                                                                                                  114,450              30              _335 
Greed Total (A,B,C)                                                            299.700               487_661             787.431              74            585  06 
T/ For newly recruited ctaff 6 a hnt, ec Ytes  S only.
2   of Which hK 4,000 provided tnder LLDP III
March 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONCA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
NRDP - Preuive-taet Phase
Meitba Sub-project
(MK)
Uoit                                     Year 1                 Y"r 2                              FP EBch.       F. ERch.
Cost         Grade                       (1976/77)             (197778)            Tot-l             7             Total
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
4-wheel drive  - et, sod training                                7,888                                       7,880                    --             7,880             90            7,092
4-h-eel drive - land husbandry                                   7,880                                        --                     7,880           7,880             90            7,092
Motorcycle - oct. sd training                                      600                                        --              (2)    1,200           1,200              90           1,080
Motorcycle - research                                              600                                        --                       600             600              90             540
Office equipnt - ot. and training                                                                             __                     1,000           1,000              75             750
Office *quiprsat - toed husbandry                                                                            1,000                    --             1,000              75             750
Office equipsent - research                                                                                  1,000                    _              1,000             75              750
SHroey equipaent - land h-sbandry                                                                             --                    1,600            1,600             90            1,440
Teut.ge -  eand hoobandry                                                                                     __                     1.000           1.000             90              900
Total A                                                                                         9.880                  13.280           23.160             88           20_394
B.  OPEATING COSTS
(a)  Salarias and Wages:
Senior Technical Officer - eat, snd training                     2,500          STO                          1,250 -                 2,500           3,750             --             __
Eatanion Officer - ext. and training                             1,500          TO                            --                     1,500           1,500             --             --
Credit Officer - eat. nd training                                1,500          TO                            __                     1,500           1,500             --             --
Tsehnical Aslist nt - eat  sod training                            600          TA                            --             (7)    4,200            4,200             __             __
Credit Aseistunt - art.  nd training                               600          TA                            --             (2)    1.200            1,200              --            --
TechnIcal Officer - land husbandry                               1,500          TO                            --                     1,500           1,500             _-             --
Technical Assistant - laud hushandry                               600          TA                            --             (4)    2,400            2,400             --             --
Labo-rer - land husbandry                                           80 -o                                                    (8)       640             640              --            --
Technical Officer - research                                     1,500          TO                            --                     1,500           1,500             __             __
Technical Assistent - research                                     600          TA                            --                       600             600              _-            --
Lahoorer - research                                                 80                                       -_              (8)       440             640              __            __
Subotol (a)                                                                                    1,250                  18,180           19,430             --             --
(b)  Other Operating Costs
4-wheel drive 15,000 a/yr at Zlt                                 3,150                                       3,150           (2)    6,300            9,450              90           8,505
Motorcycle    10,000 a/yr at 4t                                    400                                        --             (3)    1,200            1,200              90           1,080
Office  asterisk - ot. and troining                                                                                                  1,000           1,000              75             750
Office  ateriale - load hebhandry                                                                             __                       500             500              75             375
Offic sosterials  research                                                                                    __                       500             500              75             375
Borehole aalntenance                                                40                                        __             (10)     400              400              30             120
Buildiug -aintenanc- 2 1/2% p.a.                                                                              --                     3,084           3,084              30             925
Fertilizer sod seed trials                                                                                    --                       250             250              75             188
Subtotal (b)                                                                                     3,150                 13,234           16,384             75           12,318
Total B                                                                                         4.400                  31.414           35.814             34           12_318
C.  CIVIL WORKS
Staff houss
Type A - eat end training                                       24,700                                      24,700                    __            24,700              30           7,410
Type B - at. snd training                                       10,200                                (2)   20,400                                  20,400              30           6,120
Type B - laud husbandry                                         10,200                                      10,200                    __            10,200              30           3,060
Type H - research                                               10,200                                      10,200                    --            10,200              30           3,060
Type D - at and training                                         2,800                                (9)   25,200                    __            25,200              30           7,560
Type 0 - 1usd husbandry                                          2,800                                (4)   11,200                    --            11,200              30           3,360
Typ D - research                                                 2,800                                       2,800                    _              2,800              30             840
Rural training canter                                            4,500                                       4,500                    --             4,500              30           1,350
Offices - headquarter  ot. acd training                          12/eq.ft.                          (780)    9,360                    --             9,360              30           2,008
Offices - land husbandry                                         12/sqft.                           (200)    2,400                    --             2,400              30             720
Offices - research                                               12/sq.ft.                          (200)    2,400                    --             2,400              30             720
Borehole                                                         2,500                               (10)   25,000           (10)   25,000          20,000              3i0         15,000
Bridge  - Chkse zi-                                                                                                                 70,000          70,000 W0                       21,000
Bridge  - L.Weey.                                                                                             --                    20.000          20.000              1e           6.000
Total C                                                                                       148.360                 112.000          262,360              30          79_008
D.  CREDIT POND
Credit for inpots                                                                                             --                    70.000          702000              85          59,5D0
Grand Total (A,B,C)                                                                            162.640                229,694          392,334             44          171 220
1/ 6 -anth. In Year I only.
Morfh 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PhASE !I
NRDP - Pteievets-ent Phase
Thisi/Lifidei Sob-project
Unit                                Year 1                  Year 2                     FP Each.      F. Eab.
Coat        Grade                  (1976/77)               (1977/78)          Total      X            Total
A.    CAPITAL COSTS
4-sheel drive - roteenion and training                             7,880                                 7,880                     .-             7,880        90          7,092
Motorcycle - extension and training                                  600                                  --              (5)    3,000            3,000        90           2,700
Hotorcycle - research                                                600                                  --                        600             600       90             540
Motorcycle-forentry                                                  600                                  --                        600             600       90             540
Lorry - 5-te  flat - forestrY                                     12,650                                12.650                     --           12,650        90          11,385
Eqoip.set - foretry                                                                                       --                        200             200       90             180
Office eqoipoent - et, and training                                                                      1000                      --            1200         7              750
Total A                                                                                     21_530                   4_400           2 30                      23.187
B.    OPERATING COSTS
(a)  Salaries and Wagsa
Senior Technical Offier - ot, and te-inig                          2,500           STO                   2,500                    2,500           5,000
Land IeHanbdey Specialist - nct. and training                      1,500           TO                     --                     1,500           1,500         --
Tobacco Specialiat - nt, and training                              1,500           TO                     __                     1,500           1,500        --             --
Credit Specialist - ant and traininig                              1,500           TO                     __                     1,500           1,500        --             --
Area Soperviser -  xt. and training                                1,500           TO                     __              (2)    3,000           3,000        --             __
Technical Assistant  - ext. and training                             600          TA                      --             (20)   12.060          12,000        -_             __
Clerical Officer -  xt, and training                                 600           CO                      600                      600          1,200        __             __
Typist - ext. and training                                           600           D5                     --                       600              600       -_             __
PHI -  nt, and trlntiig                                              600          TA                      --              (2)    1,200           1,200        -_             __
Messenger/Worklan - eat and training                                 170                          (2)      340            (5)      850            1,190       --             __
Technical Assistant - research                                       600          TA                      --                       600             600        --             --
Labosrer - research                                                   80                                  --              (9)       640            640        -_             __
Forest Ranger                                                        600          TA                      --                       600              600       -_             __
Nrace yan - forestry                                                  80                                                            505             505       --              --
Lahes.ryer- foretry                                                    0--                                                          80               8 0      ---
Subtoetl (a)                                                                                 3,440                   27,675          31,115        -_             __
(b)  Other Operating Costs
4-theal drive 15,000 n/yr at 21t                                   3,150                                 3,150                   3,150           6,300        90           5,670
Moternynls    10,000 s/yr at 4t                                      400                                  --              (7)    2,800            2.800       90            2,520
Offits x atnrisls                                                                                          200                      200            400        75              300
Miscallaneons sqeip-ent - research                                                                         100                      100             200       90              180
Fertili-ar and seed trials - research                                                                      100                      100             200       75              150
FPrtiliser, ehesicals and sced - fortry                                                                   --                     1,500           1.500        75           1,125
Larry -_4,000 n/yr at 34t                                          1,360                                 1,360                   1,360           2.720        902,448
N-rsery siintenane, etc. - fore-try                                                                        300                      300             600       90              540
borebole asintenn-ce                                                  40                                  --             (16)       640             640       30              192
Building -aintenance 2 1/2% p.a.                                                                         3-772                                   3.772        30           1.162
Sabewtal (b)                                                                                 5,210                  13,922           19,132        75          14,287
Tetal B                                                                                      8_650                  41_597           50,247        28          14.287
C.    CIVIL WORKS
Staff hooses
Type B - et. snd training                                          9,100                          (6)   54,600                    --            54,600        30          16,380
Type D - ext  ad training                                          2,500                        (24)   60,000                     --            60,000        30          18,000
Type 0 - research                                                  2,500                                 2,500                    __             2,500        30              750
Type D - forstry                                                   2,500                          (2)    5,000                    --             5.000        30            1,500
Rfral training nanter                                             4,500                          (2)    9,000                     --             9,000        30            2,700
Offices - haadquarter  at, and training                            12/nq.ft.                    (880)   10,560                    --            10,560        30           3,160
Offices - field  nt, and training                                  12/nq.ft.                 (3x200)    7,200                     --             7,200        50            2,160
Materials store - foresLrY                                                                               2.000                                  37 2,000      20             60O
Rorehal1   - at. and trainin                                       2,500                        (155   37,500                     -             37,500        30          11,250
B-rehols and reticolatian - forestry                               3,500                                 3,500                    --             3,500        30           1,050
Road canstesition                                                  17500/i0 0                                                                   7 (5)   75    30          22.500
Total C                                                                                    191,860                  75_000          266.860        30          80.058
D.    CREDIT FUND                                                                                                                             -               - 
Credit for ilpers                                                                                         --                    20000           2             85          17 000 
Grand Tatal (A,B,C,D)                                                                      222 040                 140,997          3              37         134,532
March 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Kawinga Sub-Prolect
(MK)
Unit                              Year 1             Year 2                              F. Exch.       F. Exch.
Cost             Grade           (1976/77)          (1977/78)            Total                           Total
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
4-wheel drive - extension and training                           7,880                                --         (2)   15,760            15,760              90           14,184
Motorcycle - research                                              600                                --                  600                600             90              540
Total A                                                                                                          16.360            16.360             90            14.724
B.   OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Chief  Technical Officer - extension and training                3,300             CTO                --                3,300             3,300              --             --
Technical Officer   - research                                   1,500             TO                 --                1,500             1,500              --             --
Labourer - research                                                 80                                --        (7)       560               560              --             --
Subtotal (a)                                                                                    --               5,360              5,360             --              --
(b) Other Operating Costs:
4-wheel drive  15,000 m/yr @ 21t                                 3,150                                --                3,150             3,150              90            2,835
Motorcycle      10,000 m/yr at 4t                                  400                                --                  400               400              90              360
Stationery and office supplies - ext. and Training                 500                               --                   500               500              75              375
Tools, materials, inputs, etc.,- research                          250                                --                  250               250              75              188
Subtotal (b)                                                                                    __               4,300              4,300             87             3,758
Total B                                                                                         --               9.660             9.660              39             3.758
C.   CIVIL WORKS
Staff houses
Type A - extension and training                                 22,000                               --                22,000            22,000              30            6,600
Type B - extension and training                                  9,100                               --         (4)   36,400             36,400              30           10.920
Typ"- land husb. and research                                    9,100                               --                 9,100             9,100              30            2,730
Type D - extension and training                                  2,500                               --        (17)   42,500             42,500              30           12,750
Type D - land huab. and research                                 2,500                               --         (5)   12,500             12,500              30            3,750
Rural training center                                            4,500                                --        (2)    9,000              9,000              30            2,700
Offices                                                          12/sq.ft.                            --     (1220)   14,640             14,640              30            4,392
Borehole                                                         2,500                               _         (10)   25,000             25.000              30            7.500
Total C                                                                                        --              171.140            171.140             30           51,342
Grand Total (A,B,C)                                                                            --              197.160           197.160              35           69.824
rDr 
March 2, 1976                                                                                                                                                                               I



KROGAL RURAL DEVELOPtNT PDJRCT - PHASE II
NRDP - Preinvestnt Phase
Markets and Input Stores (AMARC)
Uint               Yar lI               Year 2                          F. Exch.     F. Exch.
-CQa              (1791Q6rL7)          (19777)             Total          %           Total
(a)   KavivLa Sub-erolect
Market - Ntaja                                    20,000                 --                  20,000          20,000           30          6,000
Input store- Ngokwe, Ni.tiya                      10,000                 --            (2)  2000             20.000           30          6.000
Total (a)                                                        --                 40  000         AR"               30         12.000
(b)  Thiwi/LifidzL Sub-proiect
Input store                                       10,000          (2)  20,000          (1)  10.000          30 000            30          9 000
(c)   Mzizba Sub-project
Bush market /input store                          10,000               10.000               10_000           20.000           30          6.000
Grand Total (a,b,c)                                            30,000               60 000          90.000            30         27.000
March 2, 1976
IOD 



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
NRDP - Preinvestment Phase
Health
(MK)
Unit                           Year 1          Year 2                         F. Exch.       F. Exch.
Cost            Grade         (1976/77)       (1977/78)          Total          %             Total
(a)   Kawinga Sub-project
(b)   Thiwi/Lifidzi Sub-project
(c)   Mzimba Sub-project
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Equipment (maternity unit)                                                        2.800             _2,800                        90           2.520
B. OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salaries and Wages:
Hospital Assistant                              600                                 600             600           1,200           --             --
Enrolled Nurse/Midwife                          480                                 480             480             960           __             __
Subtotal (a)                                                         1,080           1,080           2,160           --             --
(b) Other Operating Costs:
Drugs                                                                               600             600           1,200           75             900
Borehole maintenance                             40                                 --               40              40           30              12
Building maintenance  2 1/2% p.a.                                                   _-              903             903           30             271
Subtotal (b)                                                           600           1,543           2,143           44           1,183
Total B (a-I-b)                                                       1,680          2,623           4,303           27           1,183
C. CIVIL WORKS
Maternity ward                                                                   20,000             --           20,000           30           6,000
Demonstration kitchen                                                            10,500             __           10,500           30           3,150
Staff houses - type D                          Z,800                        (2)   5,600              _            5,600           30          1,680
Borehole                                       2,500                              2.500                           2,500           30             750
Total C                                                                   38638 6--                          00           30          11580
Total c                                                                  43.080           2.623          45,703           33          15,039
Grand Total (a,b,c)                                                      43,080           2,623          45,703           33          15,039
March 2, 1976                                                 
U3



MALAWI
U&RONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Sumary of Phase I related Recurrent Cost Items to be born by Borrover 1/
(MK)
Unit       Grade      Year I            Year 2           Year 3             Year 4         Total       Foreign      Foreign
Cost                 (1976/77)         (1977/78)        (1978/79)          (1979/80)                   Exchange    Exchange
%           Total
Extension
Senior Field Officer                   2,500        STO          -                 -                 -               2,500          2,500         -
Field Officer                          1,500         TO          -                 1,500    (4)    4,500    (5)   7,500            13,500         -             _
Senior Field Assistant                 1,300        STA          -                 1,300    (3)    3,900    (5)   6,500            11,700         -
Field Assistant                          600         TA          -          (3)    1,800    (6)    3,600    (10)  6,000            11,400         -
Farm Ham   Instructress                  600         TA          -                   600    (2)    1,200    (3)   1,800             3,600 W
Development Assistant                    360         DA          -          (5)    1,800    (6)    2,160    (10)  3,600             7,560
sub-total                                                             7,000            15,360          27,900         50,260         -             -
Land Husbandry
Field Officer                          1,500         TO                                               -              1500           1500
Livestock
Field Officer                          1,500         TO          -                   -                               1,500          1,500
Veterinary and/or Field Assistant        600         TA          -          (2)    1,200    (4)    2,400    (7)   4,200             7,800
Development Assistant                    360         DA          -                   -                -                360            360
Operating - water supplies & pumps                               -                   _       (257)    275    (50%)   550              825         50          413
Operating - dipping fluid                                        -                  _        (257)    720    (50%) 1.440            2.160         90         544
sub-total                                                             1,200            3,395            8,050         12,645         18        2,357
Construction
Maintenance Lufira Scheme                                        -                   -              10,000          10,000         20,000          -            -
Mechanical Maintenance
Clerical Officer                         600         Co          -                   -                -                600            600         -
Chargehand                               800         TA          -                   _                -                800           80          -             -
Operating - generators                                                                       (255%)  5.380    (50%)10.760          16.140         90       14.526
sub-total                                           -                   -              5,380           12,160         17,540         82       14,526
Finance
Senior Executive Officer               2,500       SE0           -                   _              2,500            2,500          5,000         -            -
Credit Officer                         1,500        TO           -                                     -             1,500          1,500         -            -
Executive Officer                      1,500         BO          -                                  1,500    (2)   3,000            4,500                      -
Senior Clerical Officer                1,300       SCO           -                                  1,300    (2)   2,600            3,900         -            -
Credit Assistant                         600        TA           -                   -                 -      (2)   1,200           1,200         -
Clerical Officer/Accounts Assistant   600           Co 0                             -                600    (3)   1,800            2,400                      -
Copy Typist                              600         D5          _                   -                600    (2)   1,200            1,800         -            _
sub-total                                          -                   -              6,500          13,800          20,300         -            -
Prolact Mananers Office
Assistant Project Manager                 98      4,450          -                   -                 -             4,450          4,450         -             -
Executive Officer                      1,500        EO           -                   -                -              1,500          1,500         -            -
Clerical Officer                         600        CO           -                  600      (2)    1,200    (2)   1,200            3,000
Development Assistant                    360        DA          _                   360      (2)      720    (3)   1,080            2,160         -
Telephone Operator                       600        CO          -                    ,                600              600          1,200
sub-total                                         _                   960             2,520           8,830          12,310         -
TOTAL                                        _160                                43,155          82240         134555          12        161tl3
1/    In addition to pre-Phase I staff already paid for by MAHR (see also Annex 8, Appendix 2).
March 2, 1976



ANNEk 8
MALAWI                                                         Appendix 2
EARONGA  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  - PHASE  II
Financimg of Agricultural Staff in Karonga and Chitipa L4itrirts
Year I                    Year 2                 Year 3                     Year 4
(1976/77)                 (1977/78)              (1978/79)                 (1979/80)
MANR 11   KRDP           MANR       KRDP         MNR         KERDP        MANR         KRDP
Hxtensio.
O9                         -              I            -           I          -                         I-
CTO                        -              2            -          2           -            2           -            2
STO                        3              2            3          2           3            2           4            1
TO                         6              8            7           9          9            8          11            6
STA                        2              7            3          7           5            5           7            3
TA                        35            18            38         22          41           24          45           24
TA FRI                     4              4            5           3          6            2           7            1
DA                        30            14           33          15          36           15          40           14
SCO                        -              I            -           I         -              I                       1
CO                         -              2            -           2         -             2          -             2
L;ad Eusbandry
PO                         -              1            -           1         -              I         -I-
TO                         -              2            -           2         -              2         1             1
STA                        -              I            -           1         -             I          -             -
TA                         2              8            2           H         2             4          -              -
LiVestock
59                         -              I            -           1         -              1                        I
TO                         2              2            2           2         2              2         3              1
TA including LRfit- 25                   12           27          10        29              8        32              5
Go                         1              1            1           1         1              1         1             1
DA                         4              5            4           5         4             5          5             4
C ... t-tiom  Unit2/
CTO                        -              I            -           1         -              1         -              I
EYE                        -              I            -           I         -              I         -I
STO                        -              I            -           I         -              I         -              I
ETO  Lufira                                                  I          -           I                        -I
ESTA                                      I i                                                                        1  
TA Lufir                   -              2            2           -         2              -         2              -
TA                         -              5            -           5         -              5         -              5
Go                         -              2            -           2         -              2         -              2
DA                         -            10             -         10          -            10          -            in
Research
PO                         -              1                        I          -                                      I 1
STO                        -              I            -           1         -              1         -              I
TO                         1              2            1           2         1              2         1              2
TA                         3              2            3           4         3              6         3              6
DA                         1              2            1          4          1              4         1             4
Go                         -              I            -           I         -              I         -              I
Hydralogy
PO                         -              1            -           1         _              1         _              I
T'O                        1              1            1           1         N1                       11
TA                         -              3            -           3         -              3         -              3
DA                         2              8            2           8         2              8         2              8
Meeh. Mainrtance
CTO                        -              1            -           1         -              I          -             I
TO                         -              I            -           I                        I                        I
CO                         -              2            -           2         -              2         1              1
TA                         -              2            -           2         -              2         1              1
Finance
59                         -                                       1                        I         -              I
PO/1C                                     1                        I                        1         -              I
SEO                        -              2            -           2         1              1         1              1
EO                          -             3            -           3          1             2          2             1
TO                          -             2            -           2          -             2          1             1
SCO                        -              4            -           4         1              3         2              2
STA                                       1            -                     -              1          -             I
TA- K-rog  credit  -                      2            -           5          -             9          2            10
TA-  Chitip   credit  -                   4            -           5          -             8          -             8
HA                         -            lH             -           7         -              3          -             -
W-  Clerica                1              3            1           3         2              2         3              1
CO- Accunts Ass.    -                     2            -           2         -              2          1             1
D5                         -              3            -           3         1              2          2             1
Evaluation
PO                                                                                                     -             1
TO                         -              3            -           3          -             3          -             3
TA                         -              4            -           4          -             2          -             2
DA                         -             18            -          18         -             12          -            12
CO                         -              I              _         1          -             I          -             I
Mon.eeo.e-t Unit
FM                         -              1            -           1                        I         -
Ass. PM                     -             1            -           1          -             I          I             -
S0                         -              1            _           N          -             1          _             I
EO                          -             I            _           N          _             I          I             -
SCO                        -              1            -           I          -                        -             1
CO                         -              4            1           3         2                         2             2
DA                         -              5            1           4          2             3          3             2
Dl                          -                          -           I          -             1          -             I
D5                          -             I            -           I          -             I
CO - Telephone              -             2           -            2          1             1          1             1
1/ Existing staff already paid for by MANR
Does  Nt cower seior  staff in other irrigation  sche-es
March 2, 1976



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE Il
Horusing Constrution Program
Year 1          Housing      l/  Year 2           Housing         -Year 3           Housing          Year 4           Housing                   %  of
Division                      (1976/77N   Numbers & Types    (1977/78)    Numbers & Types    (1978/79)    Numbers & Types    (1979/80'    Numbers & Types              Total   Total
Extension/Land Husbandry         56,ooo    (2P           A         22,400    (71 D                    _                                 3,200    (1)           D      81,600
81,200    (7)           B           -                               _                                                               81,200    43
58,500    (9)           C           -                                                                                               58,500
35,200   (11'           D           -                                                                                               35,200
Livestock                        11,600    (1'            B          -                                                                                                11.600     5
19,200    (6)                      -                                _                                                               19,200
Construction                     11,600    (1)            P          -                                                                      _11,600
6,5oo    (1)           C           -                                                                                                6,500      6
19,200    (61           D          _                                                                   _                            19,200
Research                         28 000    (1'            A         6, 400    (2)          D          6,400    (2)           D           -                            40,800
11,600    (1'           B          -                                _                                                               11,600    10
9,600    (3)           D          -                                -                                  _                             9,600
Hydrology                         9,600    (3)            D          -                                -                                  -                             9,600     2
Mechanical Maintenance           11,600    (1)            B          -                                _                                  _                            11,600     4
12,800    (4)           D          -                                -                                  -                            12,800
Finance                          28 000    (1)            A         6,500    (1)           C          -                                  -                            34,500
46,400    (4)           B         9,600    (3)            D        16,000    (5)           D          9,600    (3)            D     81,600    24
19,500    (3)           C          -                                                                                                19,500
16,000    (5)           D                                            -                                                              16,000
Evaluation                       23,200    (2)            P          _                                                                                               23,200      6
12 800    (4)           D          -                                --                                                                 8 12800  _
Subtotal           2/        528,100                            1444900                          2o                                                              6oB,200   100
less existing housing -
A (1'  28,000
B (4)  46,400
C (1)   6,500
D (19) 60,800                141,700                              _141,700
Total                        386 400                            44,900                           22 400                            12&800                        466,500
Phasing  of construction 3   151,234                           151,233                           151,233                            12,800                       466,5004/
i/  Type A (corresponding MOW classification CH 10 and CL 6) - staff grade entitlement: S5, PO, CTO, CEO                - Unit Cost MK 28,000
B (Corresponding MOW classification DH 8 and DL 3) -  staff grade entitlement: EO, TO, SEO, STO - Unit cost MK 11,600
C (Corresponding MOW classification EH 5 and EL 2A) - staff grade entitlement:SCO, STA - Unit cost MK 6,500
D (Corresponding MOW classification PH 2 and PL 1) -  staff grade entitlement: TA, CO, Dl, D2, D5, L6 - Unit cost MK 3,200
Houses presently under construction and expected to be completed by the end of Phase I; houses not yet occupied or to become available through reassignment of
staff.
3/  Since the housing requirements in Year 1 exceed Project's construction capacity, the first 3 years requirements have been equally phased over 3 years.  No                B> '
difficulties are foreseen in accomodating staff in the interim.                                                                                                           a
Total numbers of houses to be constructed:  3 x type A
13 x type B
13 x type C
46 x type D
Marrch 2, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Construction Costs of Staff Housing
MOW Houses (Lilongwe)           LLDP Houses(Lilongwe)             1976 Unit Cost Estimates (MK)
Unit   Unit             (Based on LLDP Data)
Staff              Proposed   Design   Approximate   Unit    Approximate    Cost   Cost          Karonga    Mzimba    Thiwi-Lifidzi
Grades               Type      Number   Floor Space   Cost 1/ Floor Space    1975 2/ 1976 3/  Chitipa 4/   5/               Kawinga 6/
(sq ft)     (MK)       (sq ft)       (MK)   ?MKT
TA/CO/D1/D2/D5/D6    D           PH2        275       3,480        420        1,650   2,000        3,200      2,800         2,500
SCO/STA               C          EH5        N.A.      5,140       N.A.        3,400   4,100        6,500      5,800         5,200
EO/TO/SEO/STO         B          DH8        795      13,520        800        6,040   7,250       11,600    10,200          9,100
S/PO/CTO/CEO          A          CH10     1,220      19,710      1,420      14,684  17,600        28,000    24,700         22,000
1/  Anticipated Costs, April 1976
2/ Actual Costs, including overheads, October 1975
3/ 1975 Actual Costs plus 20Z
4/ 160Z of Lilongwe estimates
5/ 140% of Lilongwe estimates
6/  125% of Lilongwe estimates
March 2, 1976
II



ANNEX 9
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
IBRD Fiscal Year                        Quarterly                   Cumulative
and Quarter                         Disbursements                Disbursements
1976/77
September 30, 1976
December 31, 1976
March 31, 1977
June 30, 1977                             800                          800
1977/78
September 30, 1977                        800                        1,6oo
December 31, 1977                         800                        2,400
March 31, 1978                            800                        3,200
June 30, 1978                             800                        4,ooo
1978/79
September 30, 1978                        900                        4,900
December 31, 1978                       1,100                        6,000
March 31, 1979                          1,100                        7,100
June 30, 1979                             300                        7,400
1979/80
September 30, 1979                        300                        7,700
December 31, 1979                         300                        8,000
March 31, 1980                            400                        8,400
June 30, 1980                             200                        8,600
1980/81
September 30, 1980                         200                       8,800
December 31, 1980                          200                       9,000
March 31, 1981                             200                       9,200
May 21, 1976



Yea  1    Year 2        Yeal 3       Yeee 4      Year 5      Yea, 6      Yas  7       Year a      Year 9      1e LO    Yal  11    Tes  12    Itae  13    Wasar 14   Tess is   low, 16    Iw   ?    9Wm 98    low 19    ya 30
(1976/77)  (1977/78)  (1978/79)  (1979/00)  (1980/81)  (1981/82)  (19B2/83)  (1983/64)  (1884/85)  (1018/88)  (19866/87)  (1867/86)  kIS/I,)  (1089/90) (1998/9) (1491192)  (299/92)  (198/4)  (1906/95)  (1195/U)
CASH 339118
IUD9 L-a  Dt,bcreeetr  /          1,280      3,200         2,600        930           350        -            -          -            -           -            --                        -         -            -       -             -       .-                -_
AjKM  Profit 2/                      43          89          135         187          230       281         294          327          323       .333          355          353          333        353        335       333         333         355             3
cradLtt?eed3r                       -           -             .           -            25        39          10             6          11          39          32           32           32         32         32         32         32          32             32         3
Lake T-arpoet A/                      11         12           22          24           27        28          30           30           30          30          29           30           30         30         30        30          20          30             30          30
Tota1 Cash  WIfle               1,224      3,300         2,728      1,161           632      320          334          363         394          404,        417         41.7          417        617        417       417        43.7         417          1617          417
Mm8  L-a, S-done  -capital         --          -            -           ---                     -            -            6          297          315         328         346           36,0       378        Wm        46       4                            ,oo
IMP L- arvLee-Dt.-.st    --                    -             -         -               -        -             -          398         384          370         354         338           357        303        265       265 242 33                       .     01          177
E331 Loee  S.-,ite   Ccit-                     -                        -             -          .           -           135          --*                                   --                       -          -        -..--                                              -
-t charse
msae11 ?eolct Ce- -Imp    1,588              1,872         1,272        941           706       706         706          706          706         706         7o6          706          706        706        706       706         706         796            706         706
r-.. 11 Proist Cost   NW    1,200            1,649                                                     7~-  -  -          --           --                      -           -              -         -           -        -            --                         -
P e    1455J0t Cot   L*       5 34     1,345            63         63            63        63          63           63           63          63          63          63            63         63         63        63          63          63            63           63
Pleed Asset Oeplaoisset - 94    -               -           - --                      138       138         13    138           138         13      0   13      0   13      0   13        0  138              134  138        938  1n38                        138         138
Aetrva           -                                  3___0                             *3            300          30                       30          3 30                     3330 -                           3O 30                   30300
Total Cssh Ostfla.             3.436      3.066         1,630      1,004           937      937          937        1,753       i,618       1,622       1,619        1,621        1,654      1,61       1. 62     ;167        16,          .1                         _
61_                                                          ;A618
*    lt Cash Ieflos (Ostflce)  (2,182)   (1,766)          1,120         157         (305)    (693)         (603)     (1, 39-0)    (1,2724)    (1,196)    (1,002)    (1.204)         (1,237)   (1,001)   (1,206)  (1,250)   (1,200)    (1,02w)             (1.261)    (1,201)
* C,m,af.e Cash  Wit10.          (2,102)   (3,948)       (2,828)   (2,671)        (2,9176)  (3,580)    (4,188)       (5,578)    (6,8c2)    (8,000o)    (9,202)   (lo,406)          (11,643)  (12.844)  (14,050) (15,300)  (16,5o2)   (1v-,7o4)           (18,965)   (20,1i66)
(OstOloss)
l  B ased ec dIehorce-t echedole (dese  9).
2/  A35A3. Profits see ass-d to be beeefitc  to the Ceve,itc fee thi. P.e Po.e ad h-Y  baes  -Ilcultd ccbasis of aetee  aerage P-ofit c crop P-he.as. of the let ti-e years; they
relate to th. e torm,tal saaetabl. p-edotloc of Phose If 0017.
3/  007910  of Creditr opeetles.
I/  Isosie geee.tcd throgh take Traeroeot tpcea
may2 14, 1976



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Farm Budgets
General
1.        As in other parts of Malawi, farm sizes do not vary widely in
Karonga and Chitipa districts, and generally there exists a close relation-
ship between the number of persons in the family and the area cultivated
by the household. The 1968/69 National Sample Survey of Agriculture disclosed
that about two thirds of all households cultivate between two and six acres
and that the combined area of these farms equals about two thirds of all
cultivated land in the two districts. On the basis of recent aerial photo-
graphy it is estimated that the cultivated area per household is on average
about 3.7 acres in Karonga and 3.9 acres in Chitipa. The cultivated areas
tend to be somewhat smaller in the rice growing areas in northern Karonga and
in certain parts of the Chitipa plains, whilst they are slightly above average
in the less intensively cultivated parts of southern Karonga and Misuku hills
in northern Chitipa. To illustrate the Project's impact on farmers' incomes,
budgets have been worked out for typical 4-acre farms located respectively in
the rice areas of Karonga and the dryland crop areas of Karonga and Chitipa.
If a farmer switches from hand cultivation techniques to work-oxen for land
preparation, and possibly for transport, it may be expected that the cultiva-
ted area would rise to about eight acres in Chitipa for which a separate
budget has been prepared.
Values and Costs of Crop Production
2.        On the basis of projected yields and input requirements (see
Annex 1) estimates have been made of the value of production, the production
costs and the margins, both per acre and per man-day, for all main crops with
and without the proposed improvements (Tables 1 and 2). Selecting approp-
riate prices proved to be particularly difficult for the Karonga and Chitipa
districts because of frequent sales of crops outside the official ADMARC
channels. There exists no information on the volumes involved and the prices
but it is known that both fluctuate heavily from year to year. For example
ADMARC hardly bought any groundnuts in Karonga in 1974 and 1975 since the
prices farmers were able to obtain through border trade were at least double
those of ADMARC's guaranteed minimum prices. Maize was reported to be sold in
1975 at prices which exceeded the official prices by up to 50%. In preparing
the farm budgets two different series of prices have been used. The first
set represents the official 1976 ADMARC prices for crops and for fertilizers,
as announced in September 1975. The second series have been derived from
the farmgate values for 1980 (in 1976 constant prices) which were used in



ANNEX 11
Page 2
the economic evaluation of the Project. The economic farmgate values for
crops were reduced by about 15% which is assumed to reflect a reasonable
profit margin for the marketing organization.
3.        Table 1 demonstrates that rice is clearly the most profita-
ble crop in Karonga, both in terms of margin per acre and margin per labour
day. Under improved rainfed conditions the net return per acre would in-
crease by about one third and the return per man-day by about 15%. The table
also illustrates that the net return per man-day would be lower for irrigated
rice than for improved rainfed rice. Since rice is grown in distinct areas,
there does not exist an actual or potential competition with other crops.
4.        The profitability of the various dryland crops depends entirely
on the prices one chooses. On the basis of the increased 1976 ADMARC prices,
maize seems to be the most profitable dryland crop in terms of returns per
man-day, both in Karonga and Chitipa (Tables 1 and 2). Improved cotton,
however, shows a higher margin per acre and would also give the highest return
per man-day if by 1980 the price would reflect the economic farmgate value.
There also seems to be room for a substantial raise in groundnut prices in
view of its projected economic value. This would make the crop more attrac-
tive than on the basis of ADMARC prices, although still less profitable than
on the basis of the prices farmers were able to obtain in 1975. As might be
expected, ox-cultivation increases the margins per day for maize and ground-
nuts by some 10 - 15% but the margin per acre decreases by about the same
proportion because of the higher costs involved.
5.        The following summarizes the margins per acre and per man-day for
the main crops under improved conditions, using the two sets of prices, dis-
cussed above, as well as the approximate prices which farmers could obtain
in late 1975 by selling outside the official channels. The benefit/cost
ratios associated with both the total and the incremental production, are
shown as well.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Hand-Cultivation                  Oxen-Cultivation
Chalim-                           Mani-
Syn-     bana                 Syn-       pintar
Rainfed   thetic   Ground-                 thetic      Ground-
Rice      Maize       nuts      Cotton    Maize         nut
(Karonga) (Chitipa) (Karonga) (Karonga) (Chitipa) (Chitipa)
Margin per
Acre (MK)
1976 ADMARC
prices           91.25       33.60      26.65      42.85        28.60    21.15
Projected
1980 prices       90.75       30.30      33.95      66.45        25.30    27.10
Estimated unoffic-
ial 1975 prices  91.25        40.00      50.00      42.85        35.00    45.00
Margin per
Day (MK)
1976 ADMARC
prices              1.30        0.67       0.31       0.48        0.84      0.42
Projected
1980 prices        1.30        0.61        0.40      0.74         0.74      0.54
Estimated unoffic-
ial 1975 prices   1.30         0.80       0.59       0.48         1.02      0.90
Benefit/Cost ratios
(a) for Total
Production
- 1976 ADMARC
prices         6.4/1       2.6/1      3.9/1      3.0/1       2.1/1    2.7/1
- Projected
1980 prices   6.3/1        2.3/1      4.1/1      4.2/1       1.9/1    2.9/1
(b) for Incremental
Production only
- 1976 ADMARC
prices         3.0/1       2.0/1      4.8/1      2.0/1          1/        1!
- Projected
1980 prices   2.9/1        1.7/1      4.8/1      2.8/1          1/       1/
1/   Same as for total production.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Farm Budgets
6.        The per acre estimates have subsequently been used to compute
budgets for typical farms (Tables 3, 4 and 5). Because of a lack of suffi-
cient information no attempt has been made to prepare a budget for the
Misuku hills area in Chitipa district. The assumed cropping patterns in
the without Project case reflect the average for the areas concerned. There
is no reason to believe that the standards of crop husbandry and the readi-
ness to adopt modern inputs vary with the size of the farms and therefore a
linear relationship between farm size and farm income may be assumed.
7.        A summary of the net values of crop production without and with
the Project and using the two different sets of prices mentioned earlier,
is given below:
Rainfed    Dryland      Dryland       Ox-
Rice       Crops        Crops    Cultivated
Karonga    Karonga      Chitipa    Chitipa
(4 ac)     (4 ac)        (4 ac)      (8 ac)
At 1976 ADMARC Prices
With Project (MK)                214.00    114.60         98.60       187.60
Without Project (MK)             166.10     63.90         71.60        71.60 1/
Increment (MK)                   47.90      50.70         27.00       116.00
Increment (%)                      28        79            38           162
At 1980 Projected Prices
With Project (MK)                213.00    144.05         96.15       189.25
Without Project (MK)             166.10     67.65         74.60        74.60 1/
Increment (MK)                   46.90      76.40         21.55       144.65
Increment (%)                      28      113             29          154
1/   Without Project:  4 acres, hand cultivated.
February 15, 1976



M&I.AW
KARONGA RIIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJRCTI PFASE II
Crop Margins Per Acre and per Man-Day. Karonga District
Rice                          Maize                  , Groundnuts                   Cotton             Cassava
Unimproved  improved  Irrigated   Unimproved  Composite or   nimproved    Improved         Unimproved  Improved   Unimproved
Rainfed    Rainfed                 Local      Synthetic    (Malimba)   (Chalimbana)
Margins at Official 1976 Pricesi/
Production
- Yield, lb/ac                           1,600      2,400      3,000         800         2,200           300            450          300         800        1,800
- Value, MK/ac                           72.00     108.00    135.00        18.00         49.50         21.00          36.00        24.00       64.00        18.00
Costs, W/ac
- Seed-                                   2.70       3.00       3.00        0.50         0.70           4.20           6.95          --          --           --
- Fertilizer-/                             -        10.05      20.10         -           15.70                         -            -                   -
- Insecticide4                             -          -          -           -             -             -              -            -         12.00          -
- Tools, etc.-                            2.00       2.00       2.00        2.00          2.00          2.00           2.00         2.00        7.00         2.00
- Credit charge                            -         1.70       2.95         _            2.00           -             0.40          -          2.15          -
Total                             4.70      16.75      28.05        2.50        20.40           6.20           9.35         2.00       21.15         2.00
Margin,MK/ac                             67.30       91.25    106.95       15.50         29.10         14.80          26.65        22.00       42.85        16.00
Number of labour days                    60         70         85          40            50            65             85           70          90           40
Margin, MK/day                            1.12        1.30      1.26        0.39          0.58          0.23           0.31         0.31        0.48         0.40
Margins at Projected 1980 Prices-l/
Value of Production, MK/ac               72.00      108.00    135.00       18.00         49.50         27.00          45.00        33.00       88.00        18.00
Costs, MI/ac
- Seed 2/                                 2.70       3.00       3.00        0.50          0.70          5.40           8.55
- Fertilizer 3/                            -        10.50      21.00         -           16.60           -              --     -                 - 
- Insecticides 4/                          -           -         -           -             -             -              -            -         12.00          -
- Tools, etc. 5/                          2.00       2.00       2.00        2.00          2.00          2.00           2.00         2.00        7.00         2.00
- Credit charge                             -        1.75       3.35         -            2.55           -             0.50          -          2.55
Total                             4.70      17.25      29.35        2.50        21.85           7.40         11.05          2.00      21.55          2.00
Margin,MK/ac                             67.30       90.75    105.65       15.50         27.65         19.60          33.95        31.00       66.45        16.00
Margin, MK/day                            1.12        1.30      1.24        0.39          0.55          0.30           o.1         0.44        0.74         0.40
1/ ~Priceassutions:                          1976  1980                       J Seed rates. lb/ac
Paddy ,bu4.50  4.50                                                          Rice                    60
Maize,t/lb                                2.25  2.25                         Maize                   22
Groundnuts, Malimba, t/lb                 7.00  9.00                         Malimba groundnuts      60
uroundnuts, Chalimbana, t/lb              8.00 10.00                         Chalimbana groundnuts  80
Cotton, t/lb                              8.00 11.00
'assava. tImb                             1.00  1.00                         Fertilizer rates. kg/ac
Improved rice seed, t/lb                  6.00  6.00                         Improved rainfed rice: 75 kg sulDhate of ammonia
Composite or synthetic maize seed,t/lb   5.00  5.00                           Irrigated rice: 150 kg sulphate of esmn,,is
Chalimbana groundnut seed, t/lb          10.00 12.00                         Improved maize: 50 kg sulphate of ammonia and 50 kg compound 20 20 0
Sulphate of ammonia, MK/50 kg             6.70  7.00
compound 20.20.0, MK/50 kg                9.00  9.60                      i,/ Improved cotton: 8 sprays of DDT, sevin and dimethoate
credit charge, 7,                        12.5  15.00
5/ Includes spraying equipment for improved cotton
'aruary 12, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Crop Margins per Acre and per Man-Day, Chitipa District
Unimproved Mixture of:          Unimproved    Unimproved    Improved             Improved Composite                    Improved Groundnuts             Pure
Maize  Means  Groundnuts  Total         Millet        Cassava          Local           Or Synthetic Maize                                                    Stand
(Malimba)                                             Maize      Hand cultivated  Ox-cultivated    Hand cultivated  Ox-cultivated    Beans
(Chalimbana)    (Manipintar)
Margins at Official 1976 Prices I'
Production
- Yield, lb/ac                              600      80         70                1,200           1,800          2,200         2,400              2,400                500                750 4/         400
- Value, MK/ac                            13.50   4.00       4.90    22.40        18.00           18.00          49.50         54.00              54.00             40.00               33.75          20.00
Costs, MlK/ac
- Seed _/                                  0.35   0.25       0.70      1.30        0.25             -             0.50          0.70               0.70               6.95               5.35           1.25
- Fertilizer 3/                             -       -          -        -            -              -            15.70         15.70              15.70                -                  -              -
- Small tools                               -       -          -       2,00        2.00            2.00           2.00          2.00               2.00               2.00               2.00           2.00
- Ox-cultivation                                -        -          -                -              -              -             -                 5.00                -                 5.00            -
- Credit charge                             -       -          -         -          _               _             1.95          2.00               2.00              0.35                0.25            -
Total                               -      -          -        3.30        2.25           2.00          20.15          20.40             25.40               9.30               12.60          3.25
Margin, MK/ac                               -       -          -       19.10       15.75          16.00          29.35         33.60              28.60              30.70               21.15         16.75
Number of labour days                               -          -      50          45              40             50            50                 34                 85                  50            40
Margin, MK/day                              -       -          -        0.38        0.35           0.40           0.59          0.67               0.84               0.36                0.42          0.42
Margins at Projected 1980 Prices
Value of Production, MK/ac                13.50   4.00        6.30    23.80        18.00          18.00          49.50         54.00              54.00              50.00              41.25          20.00
Costs, MKa
-       See  2/                          0.35   0.25       0.90      1.50        0.25             -             0.50          0.70               0.70              8.55                6.75           1.25
- Fertilizer 3/                             -       -          -         -           -              -            18.20         18.20              18.20                -                   -             -
- Small tools                               -       -          -       2.00         2.00           2.00           2.00          2.00               2.00               2.00                2.00          2.00
- Ox-cultivation                            _-                                       -              -              -             -                 5.00                -                  5.00           -
- Credit Charge                             -       -          -         -           -              -             2.75          2.80               2.80               0.50                0.40           -
Total                               -      -          -        3.50        2.25           2.00           23.45         23.70             28.70              11.05               14.15           3.25
Margin MK/ac                                 _      _          _       20.30       15.75          16.00          26.05         30.30              25.30              38.95               27.10         16.75
Margin, MK/day                               -      -          -        0.41        0.35           0.40           0.52          0.61               0.74               0.46                0.54          0.42
1/ Price Assumptions                             1976    1980                            Seed rates, lb/ac
Maize, t/lb                                   2.25    2.25                            tlnimproved mixture
Groundnuts, Malimba-shelled, t/lb             7.00    9.00                              maize                          15
Groundnuts, Chalimbana-shelled, t/lb          8.00   10.00                              beans                           5
Groundnuts, Manipintar-unshelled, t/lb    4.50    5.50                                  7rocndn uts                    10
Beans, t/lb                                   5.00    5.00                            ('omposite or synthetic maize   22
Millet, t/lb                                  1.50    1.50                            Malimba groundrnnts              6o
Cassava. t/lb                                 1.00    1.00                            Manipintar groundnuts            70
Composite or synthetic maize seed, t/lb   5.00    5.00                                Chalimbana groundnufts           80
Chalimbana groundnut seed, t/lb              10.00   12.00                            Beans                            25
Manipintar groundnut seed, t/lb               9.00   11.00
Sulphate of ammonia, ME/50 kg                6.70    7.80                          3/ iertilizer rates, kg/ac
Compound 20.20.0, MK/50 kg                    9.00   10.40                             Improved maize: 50 kg c,i sulphate of ammonia, and                                                       -
Credit charge, %                            12.5%   15 %                                                W0 kg compouin, 2n 20 0                                                                 A
i/ Unshelled, other groundnut yields shelled
January 12, 1976



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Budget for a 4 Acre Karonga Rice Farm
Without Project                        With Project - Rainfed Rice                            Irrigated Rice
Crop  Labour   Value of   Costs Margin        Crop  Labour   Value of   Coats  Margin       Crop  Labour   Value of   Costs Margin
Area   Days   Production                      Area   Days   Production                      Area   Days   Production
(ac)   (no.)    (MK)       (MK)    (MK)       (ac)   (no.)    (MK)       (MK)    (ME)       (ac)   (no.)    (MK)        (MK)    (MK)
Margins at Official 1976 Prices
Rainfed rice, unimproved            2.0    120      144.00      9.40  134.60       -     -          -          -        -       -       -          -          -       -
Rainfed rice, improved              -       -          -         -       -         2.0   140     216.00      33.50  182.50
Irrigated rice                      -       -               -        -        -       -                   -        -            3      255      405.00     84.15  320.85
Maize, unimproved                    1.0     40      18.00      2.50   15.50       1.0    4o       18.oo      2.50   15.50      1.0      40      18.00       2.50   15.50
Cassava                             1.0      4o      18.00      2.00   16.oo       1.0    40      18.00       2.00   16.00      1.0      40      18.00       2.00   16.00
Total                       4.0   200       180.00    13.90  166.10       4.o   220    252.00        30.00  214.00      5.0    335     441.00      88.65  352.35
Average margin per acre                                                41.50                                          53.50                                         88.10
Average margin per day                                                  0.83                                           0.97                                          1.05
Margins at Proiected 1980 Prices
Rainfed rice, unimproved            2.0    120      144.00      9.40  134.60       -       -         -                  -       -       -          -          -       -
Rainfed rice, improved              -       -          -         _       _         2.0     140   216.00      34.50  181.50             -           -
Irrigated rice                                         -         -       -         -       -        .          -       -        3-.0    255    405.00      88.05  316.95
Maize, unimproved                    1.0     40       18.00     2.50   15.50       1.0      40    18.00       2.50   15.50      1.0      40      18.00       2.50   15.50
Cassava                              1.0     40      18.00      2.00   16.00       1.0      40    18.00       2.00   16.00      1.0      40      18.00       2.00   16.00
Total                       4.0    200      180.00    13.90  166.10       4.o      220   252.00      39.00  213.00      5.0    335      441.00     92.55  348.45
Average margin per acre                                                41.50                                          53.25                                         87.10
Average margin per day                                                  0.83                                           0.97                                          1.014
j Assumed cropping intensity 1506.
January 12, 1976                                                                                                                                                                X | 



MALAW]
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Budget for a 4 Acre Karonga Dryland Farm
Without Project                                     With Project
Crop   Labour    Value of    Costs   Margin       Crop   Labour    Value of    Costs   Margin
Area    Days    Production                        Area    Days    Production
(ac)    (no.)     (MK)        (MK)     (MK)       (ac)    (no.)       (MK)       (MK)     (MK)
Margins at Official 1976 Prices
Maize, local, unimproved               1.6      64       28.80       4.00    24.80           -               -           -        -
Maize, composite or synthetic          -       -           -          -         -        1.0       50      49.50       20.40    29.10
Groundnuts, unimproved                 0.4      26        8.40       2.50      5.90      -        -          -           -        -
Groundnuts, improved                   -       -           -          -         -        1.0      85       36.00        9.35    26.65
Cotton, unimproved                    0.2       14       4.80        0.40     4.40       -       -           -           -        -
Cotton, improved                       -       -           -          -         -        1.0      90       64.00       21.15    42.85
Cassava                               1.8       72      32.40        3.60    28.80       1.0      40       18.00       2.00    16.00
Total                         4.0      176      74.40       10.50    63.90       4.0     265      167.50      52.90   114.60
Average margin per  acre                                                      16.00                                             28.65
Average margin per day                                                         0.36                                              0.43
Margins at Projected 1980 Prices
Maize, local, unimproved               1.6      64      28.80        4.00    24.80       -       -           -           -        -
Maize, composite or synthetic          -       -           -          -         -        1.0      50       49.50       21.85    27.65
Groundnuts, unimproved                0.4       26      10.80        2.95     7.85       -       -           -           -        -
Groundnuts, improved                   -       -           -          -         -        1.0      85       45.00       11.05    33.95           S z
Cotton, unimproved                    0.2       14       6.60        0.40     6.20       -       -           -           -        -
Cotton, improved                       -       -           -          -         -        1.0      90       88.00      21.55    66.45
Cassava                               1.8       72      32.40        3.60    28.80       1.0      40       18.00       2.00    16.00
Total                         4.0      176      78.60       10.95    67.65      4.0      265     200.50       56.45   144.05
Average margin per acre                                                       16.90                                             36.00
Average margin per day                                                        0.38                                               0.54
January 12, 1976



MAIAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PhASE II
Budget for a 4 and a 8 Acre Chitipa Farm
Without Proiect                       With Project - Hand Cultivation               With Project - Ox-Cultivation/
Crop  Labour   Value  of   Costs  Margin   Crop  Labour   Value of   Costs  Margin   Crop  Labour   Value of   Costs   Margin
Area   Days   Production                    Area   Days   Production                     Area   Days   Production
(ac)   (no.)      (MK)     (MK)    (MK)    (ac)   (no.)       (MK)      (MK)    (MK)    (ac)   (no.)       (MK)       (MK)    (MK
Margins at Official 1976 Prices
Mixture maize/beans/groundnuts        2.5    125      56.00       8.25   47.75      -      -          -         -        -      -       -          _          _        _
Improved local maize                  -      -          -          -       -       1.0     50     49.50      20.15   29.35      -       -         -           -        -
Composite or synthetic maize          -      _.         __         __      __      1.0     50     54.00      20.40   33.60    4.0    136    216.00        101.60  114.40
Chalimbana groundnuts                 -      -          _          _       _       0.5     42     20.00       4.65   15.35    --        -          -          -        -
Manipintar groundnuts               '                                       -       -  _                   -             -      2.5    125      84.40      31.50   52.90
Pure stand beans                      -      -          -          -       -       0.5     20      10.00      1.60    8.40    0.5       20     10.00        1.60    8.40
Cassava                               1.0      40     18.00       2.00   16.00    0.5      20       9.00      1.00    8.00    0.5       20      9.00        1.00    8.00
Millet                                0.5      23      9.00       1.15    7.85    0.5      23       4.50      0.60    3.90    0.5       23      4.50        0.60    3.90
Total                        4.0    188      83.00      11.40   71.60    4.0    205    147.00       48.40   98.60    8.0    324    323.90         136.30  187.60
Average margin per acre                                                  17.90                                        24.65                                         23.45
Average margin per day                                                    0.38                                         0.48                                          0.57
Margins at Projected 1980 Prices
Mixture maize/beans/groundnuts        2.5    125      59.50       8.75   50.75      -      -          -         -        -      -       -         _           _        _
Improved local maize                   -      -          -          -       -      1.0     50     49.50      23.45   26.05      -       -         -           -        -
Composite or synthetic maize           -      -          -          -       -      1.0     50     54.00      23.70   30.30    4.0    136    216.00        114.80  101.20
Chalimbana groundnuts                  -      -          -          -       -     0.5      42     25.00       5.50   19.50      -       -         -           -
Manipintar groundnuts                  -       -         -          -        -      -      -          -         -        _     2.5    125    103.15        35.40   67.75
Pure stand beans                       -      -          -          -       -     0.5      20     10.00       1.60    8.40    0.5       20     10.00        1.60    8.40
Cassava                               1.0      40     18.00       2.00   16.00    0.5      20       9.00      1.00    8.00    0.5       20      9.00        1.00    8.00
Millet                                0.5      23      9.00       1.15    7.85    0.5      23      4.50       0.60    3.90    0.5       23      4.50        0.60    3.90
Total                        4.0    188      86.50      11.90   74.60    4.0    205    152.00       55.85   96.15    8.0    324    342.65         153.40  189.25
Average margin per acre                                                  18.65                                        24.05                                         23.65                a x
Average margin per day                                                    0.40                                         0.47                                          0.58                V
1/ Beans, cassava and millet: hand cultivation.
January 12,1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Economic Costs and Benefits
1.        Economic analyses have been made for the KRDP and Lake Transport
parts of the Project, but not for the two year NRDP component because of
the preliminary nature of the investments involved. The economic analysis for
the Lake Transport Component is at Annex 13. This Annex deals with the
KRDP part of the Project only.
2.        No precise information is yet available on the actual investments
during the first Phase project, particularly the break-down thereof into the
various Project components. The economic analysis is therefore limited to
the second Phase Project only subject to the following qualifications. On the
cost side it has not been possible to separate the impact of staff recruited
under Phase I from that of incremental staff to be hired under Phase II.
Therefore the costs of all incremental staff of Phases I and II combined have
been included in the calculations. On the benefit side it is not possible
to identify what proportions of the incremental production during the early
years of the Phase II Project would result from investments made under Phase I
and which parts would result from Phase II investments. Therefore the values
of all incremental production during the implementation of Phase II have been
included in the benefits with the exception of further production increases
from the irrigated rice schemes since no additional investments in irrigation
would be made under Phase II. 1/ Under these assumptions the "without Project"
case is characterized by a level of staffing and services similar to the pre-
Phase I project situation and production which would stagnate at the level
reached by the end of the Phase I project. The probability that this "with-
out Project" case would occur is not great because, in the unlikely event
that no external financial support could be secured for some form of a
follow-up project, Government would probably not withdraw all incremental
Phase I project staff. A certain minimum level of services (although diffi-
cult to specify) would probably also be needed to maintain the Phase I pro-
ject production level. It would therefore be justifiable to reduce the costs
in the "with Project" case somewhat, which would result in a slightly higher
internal economic rate of return than calculated, but this has not been done.
1/   A different approach can be followed by excluding on the cost side
the maintenance costs of the Phase I project as estimated at the time
of its appraisal (corrected for inflation), and by excluding on the
benefit side the crop areas for which incremental production values
were claimed as benefits in the Phase I appraisal. This was done in
a separate calculation and the resulting IER (12%) came surprisingly
close to the one which was found by following the approach outlined
in paragraph 2.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
3.        The costs included in the calculations comprise overhead costs
(Project costs for the first years and maintenance costs thereafter) and
direct production costs associated with the cultivation of the various crops.
As for the Project costs, the costs of the health, research and evaluation
components were excluded since benefits are not quantifiable. The additional
health facilities would improve the standard of living of the population and
would also have some positive effect on the levels of crop production. Both
agricultural and hydrological research are expected to result in further
improvements of agricultural production techniques and the introduction of new
crop varieties at later stages; research staff would also assist extension
staff with the implementation of farm-scale tests and demonstrations of
improvements included in this Project. It would therefore be methodologically
correct to include a small part of the costs of the health and research
componenets in the economic analysis, but since it is difficult to specify
this and the impact on the Project's economic rate of return would be small,
this has not been done. The costs and benefits of the livestock component
have not been included in the economic analysis either, mainly because lack
of data and continuous movements of cattle across the borders with Tan-
zania and Zambia preclude a realistic assesment of the benefits. More-
over, the costs involved are almost entirely maintenance costs of Phase
I investments and are lower than those estimated during the appraisal of
the Phase I project (corrected for inflation) because of a reduction in
the scope of the livestock component. The full costs of extension and land
husbandry services and ADMARC construction have been included in the economic
costs, and further, 80% of the costs of the mechanical maintenance and construc-
tion sections and the management unit, and 90% of the costs of the Project's
finance and credit section (the excluded balance of these cost items is
assumed to be associated with the health, research and evaluation components).
The costs included in the economic evaluation represent about two thirds of
total costs. Direct costs of improved crop production include the projected
farmgate costs of fertilizer, improved seeds, insecticides and spraying
equipment (cotton), and the costs of ploughing by oxen (Chitipa). Not inclu-
ded are the costs of small tools, which are assumed to be the same in the with
and without Project cases, and the costs of incremental family labour, which
are assumed to be nil because no alternative employment opportunities exist.
Fertilizer prices have been based on the IBRD commodity price forecasts and
the latest information on the costs of transport. Details are shown in Table
1.
4.        Benefits consist of the value of incremental rice, maize, ground-
nut and cotton production. Economic farmgate values for these crops have
been based on past sales prices, IBRD's commodity price forecasts and current
transport costs. Some judgements had to be made in calculating appropriate
prices because the main Malawi commodities differ from the particular products
for which the IBRD forecasts are compiled and because only fragmentary and
incomplete sales data for the 1974/75 season could be obtained in Malawi
at the time of appraisal. A further complication was that, without a firm
data base, an assessment had to be made with respect to the unsatisfied



ANNEX 12
Page 3
local demand for maize in Karonga and Chitipa districts. It has been assumed
that of the incremental maize production, 4,000 sh ton would be consumed
locally (ADMARC supplied Karonga with up to 1,500 sh ton per year in the past
ten years but nothing was brought into Chitipa because of the high transport
costs involved). The farmgate price at Mzimba (Karonga's principal supply
area) plus transport costs to Karonga-Chitipa was used to assess the value of
this part of the production. The surplus production above 4,000 sh ton would
in normal years be exported out of the Northern Region (and in most cases out
of the country) but it is assumed that in one out of every eight years signifi-
cant imports would be required because of harvest failures. The weighted
average of export parities, based on sales to UK (most important buyer in the
past), and import parities has been used in the calculations. The inter-
national prices of Chalimbana confectionery groundnuts have increased sharply
in the last two years but probably because of long-term contract arrangements
the increase has hardly been reflected in the export price of Malawi's Chalim-
bana groundnuts. A conservative export value of MK 350/sh ton, c.i.f.
UK, which is higher than Malawi received in 1975 but much lower than export
prices for comparable Nigerian and Natal confectionery groundnuts, has been
assumed in this appraisal. The equivalent 1976 farmgate value, allowing for
buying, grading and transport charges, works out at MK 250/sh ton for Karonga;
this price has been used in the economic evaluation. For Manipintar ground-
nuts export parity prices, reflecting the trends forecasted by IBRD have
been used. Relatively more recent price information was available for cotton
and rice; economic farmgate values for 1976 were determined on the basis of
export parities, since both cotton and rice are exported, and IBRD forecast
price trends were used for the calculation of future values. All projected
farmgate values of crops are at Table 1 and a summary of economic costs and
benefits at Table 2.
5.        Based on the above assumptions, the internal economic return (IER)
for the second phase of KRDP has been calculated at 14%. This is rather low,
compared with other agricultural projects in Malawi,l/ and is due mainly to
the disadvantageous location of the Project in the extreme north of the
country. This necessarily leads to high costs of transport, both for farm
inputs and for crop products. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the IER
would decrease to 9% if costs were to increase by 10% and to 8% if benefits
would be 10% lower because of lower yields or lower crop prices. A combina-
tion of both adverse factors would reduce the IER to 3%. However, since
the yield estimates for the Project, as projected in the Government's project
report, were scaled down significantly during appraisal on the basis of
experience from the first phase project, the probability of yields decreasing
further should be considered low. If family labour were to be shadow priced
at 25% of the daily wage rate rather than zero, the internal economic rate of
return would decrease from 14% to 13%.
March 24, 1976
1/ SVADP - Phase II had an I.E.R. of 22% and LLDP - Phase III 18%.



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. PHASE II
Farm gate Values Used in the Economic Evaluation
Y.ear                                                           1            2            3            4           5            6            7            8             9 and onwards
Tinit       (1976/77)   (1977/78)   (1978/79)   (1979/80)   (1980/81)   (1981/82)   (1982/83)   (1983/84)    (1984/85 and onwards)
Karonga if
Paddy rice                                 MK/sh ton         124          115          110          106         106          106          106          106                106
Chalimbana groundnuts, shelled             MK/sh ton         250          250          250          250          250         250          250          250                250
Seed cotton                                MK/sb ton         295          290          290          290         290          290          290          290                290
Sulphate of.amnonia                        MK/ m ton         162          156          151          141         142          144          146          148                150
Compound 20.20.0 fertilizer                MK/ m ton         228          219          211          200         199          201          203          205                207
Rice seed                                  MK/sh ton         130          130          130          130          110         110          110          110                 110
Chalimbana groundnut seed                  MK/sh ton         300          300          300          300         300          300          300          300                300
Composite/Local maize seed                 MK/sh ton         100          100          100          100         100           60           60           60                 60
Cotton spraying, including equipment       MK/ acre           17           17           17           17           17          17           17           17                  17
Chitipa I/
Manipintar groundnuts, shelled             MK/sh ton          240         215          200          190          200         210          220          230                235
Chalimbana groundnuts, shelled             MK/sh ton         240          240          240          240         240          240          240          240                240
Sulphate of ammonia                        MK/ m ton          178         172          167          157          158         160          162          164                166
Compound 20.20.0 fertilizer                MK/ m ton         244          235          227          216         215          217          219          221                223
Local maize seed                           MK/sh ton          41           41           41           41          41           41           41           41                 41
Compositc!Local maize seed                 MK/sh ton         100           80           80           80          80           80           80           80                 80
Manipiiitar groundnut seed                 MK/5h ton         250          250          250          250         250          250          250          250                250
Chialimbsna grouindnuc ,eed                NK/sh ton         300          300          300          300         300          300          300          300                300
0xen-ploughing                             MK/ acre             5           5            5            5            5           5            5            5                  5
,;aronga and Chitipa
Maize:
first 4,000 sh ton                       MK/sb ton          64           64           63           61          61           61           61           61                 61
surplus over 4,000 sh ton                NK/sh ton          41           41           41          41           41           41           41           41                 41
1/ All seed prices, except for local maize seed in Chitipa, are estimated averages assuming the use of                                                                                     a
purchased fresh seeds once in every three years and seeds retained from own production in the other
two years.
February 10, 1976



MALAWI
KARONCA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. PHASE II
Economic Benefits and Costs
(ME'000)
Year                                    1             2              3              4              5              6              7              8              9             10 and onwards
(1976/77)     (1977/78)      (1978/79)      (1979/80)      (1980/81)      (1981/82)      (1982/83)      (1983/84)     (1984/85)      (1985/86 and onwards)
Benefits
Rice                                   74           138            198            254            254            254            254            254           254                  254
Maize                                  35             90           161            231            287            340           398            457            505                  505
Groundnuts, Chalimbana                 23            44             68            102            12b            131            136            142           148                  157
Groundnuts, Manipintar                  4             15            32             50             74             99            127            157           173                  173
Cotton                                 55           107            L61            219            262            262            262            262           262                  262
Total Benefits                    191            394            620            856         1,003          1,086          1,177          1,272          1,342               1,351
Costs
Direct Costs
Rice                                   24            47             68             87             84             85            86             86             87                   87
Maize                                  25            58             99            131            172            204            244           286            322                  322
Groundnuts, Chalimbana                  9             16            25             35             43             47             51            55             59                   59
Groundnuts, Manipintar                  2             4              9             15             20             26             26            31             37                   37
Cotton                                  9            17             26             34             40             40            40             40             40                   40
Total Direct Costs               69            142            227           302            359            402            447           498            545                  545
Overhead Costs
Extension                            200            229            206            133            146            146           146            146            146                  146
Land husbandry                         54            42             39              8              9              9              9              9             9                     9
Construction                          233           217            112             42             30             30             30            30             30                   30
Mechanical Mainteaance                 60             36            32             22             24             24             24             24            24                   24
Finance and Credit                    171           168            139            103            113            113           113            113            113                  113
Project Management                     59             56            47             52             58             58             58            58             58                   58
ADMARC Constructions                  158           158            150             -              -              -             -                             -                     -
Sub-total                         935            906            725            360            380           380            380            380            380                  380
Physical Contingency 5%                47            45             36             18             19             19             19            19             19                   19
Total Overhead Costs              982            951            761            378            399           399            399            399            399                  399
Total Costs                      1,051         1,093            988            680            758           801            846            897            944                  944
Net Benefits/(Costs)                   (860)          (699)          (368)           176           245            285            331            375           398                  407
Internal Economic Rate of Return   14%
Sensitivity Analysis
Costs + 10%,                          IER:  9%
Benefits - 10%,                      IER:  8%
Costs + 10%, and Benefits - 10%, IER:  3%
February 10, 1976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Lake Transport
A. Freight Routes between Karonga District and the South
1.        Existing freight traffic to and from Karonga district is shipped by
the Lake Service of Malawi Railways through terminals at Kambwe (near Karonga
town), Chilumba, and the sourthern port and railhead at Chipoka, which is 257
miles from Chilumba and 297 miles from Kambwe.
2.        At present there is no road link from Karonga district offering a
practical alternative to the Lake Service. However, the Federal Republic of
Germany has financed a 20-mile extension of the Karonga-Chilumba road south
to Chiweta, as the first section of a new road to Muhuju over the difficult
escarpment, ultimately to replace the existing track which is unsuitable for
normal commercial traffic. The African Development Bank is financing the
detailed engineering for the following section to Rumphi. The Government
anticipates that within the next four years, an all-weather road, most of it
bitumen, will have been completed over most of the distance from Chipoka to
Nkhata Bay, and on to Chilumba via the principal northern center of Mzuzu.
3.        With the rehabilitation of the port of Chipoka proposed for finan-
cing under the Project, Karonga district freight traffic as well as other
traffic would be handled much more expeditiously and efficiently than would
be the case without this imporvement (paragraph 15).
B. The Lake Service
General
4.        The Lake Service on Lake Malawi is owned and operated by Malawi
Railways Limited, which in turn is a Government entity, but with some pri-
vate owner interests. The Service operates the fol1owing vessels:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Capacity
Dry Cargo          Bulk Petroleum
Vessel                (short ton)      Products (short ton)   Passengers
Mkwazi                    200                       -
Mpasa                      60                      125
Ilala                     100                       -            460 - day
300 - night
Chauncey Maples            20
Self-propelled barge 1/ 300
Tug and barge 2/          600
1/    Provided under Karonga Rural Development Project - Phase I
2/    Provided by the Government for the Viphya Pulp and Paper Project,
presently being assembled at Monkey Bay.
In addition the Lake Service also owns four tugs, one launch, two oil
pontoons, and six barges.
5.        The Lake Service provides both freight and passenger service, and
is the principal means of communication along the 350-mile length of Lake
Malawi which forms the eastern boundary of the country.
6.        In recent years, the Lake Service has been generally operating at a
loss, as shown below:
1968  1969  1970   1971   1972  1973  1974  1975 1/
______________----MK' 000----------
Revenues
Passenger and Parcels               89   102   108    128    105   132   132   147
Freight                              75   149   187    259    321   478   493   483
Other                                10    12    16      58      39    48    62    30
Total Revenues                  174   263   311    445    465   658   687   660
Expenses
Depreciation                         61    62    60      51      53    55    51    51
Other                              396   414   417    529    595   582   709   844
Total Expenditures              457   476   477    580    648   637   760   895
Surplus/(Deficit)              (283) (213) (166)  (135)  (183)   21   (73) (235)
1/     Estimate



ANNEX 13
Page 3
7.        The growing deficit in 1975 results from a decline in cargo traffic
and substantial increases in operating costs (particularly for equipment and
stores).
8.        The failure of the Lake Service to meet its operating costs, even
excluding depreciation, suggests that tariffs are too low. To avoid a cross-
subsidization of the Lake Service by the Railways, the Government and the
Railways should take steps to ensure that:
(i)  the level and structure of Lake Service tariffs cover
the cost of individual services; and
(ii) taken as a whole the tariff provides adequate revenue to
cover the full cost of the Service including depreciation
or debt service, whichever is greater.
Freight Traffic and Shipping Capacity
9.        Traffic statistics for the Lake Service show that the traffic
pattern is dominated by the railhead at Chipoka. In 1975, Chipoka port
handled 32,220 short ton of cargo, or 91% of total Lake traffic. North-
bound traffic accounted for 70% of Chipoka port traffic, the main destina-
tions being Nkhata Bay and the Karonga district:
Dry and Bulk Cargo
(short ton)
1970          1973        1974        1975 I/
Northbound
-  from Chipoka                     13,800        23,087      24,120      22,517
-  from other ports                    400           872         700         600
Total Northbound                    14,200        23,959      24,820      23,117
Southbound
-  to Chipoka                        4,000         8,083      10,600       9,700
-  to other ports                    1,500         3,627       2,600       2,300
Total Southbound                     5,500        11,710      13,200      12,000
Total Both Directions 2/            19,000        35,669      38,020      35,117
1/   Estimate
2/   Shipments of less than five ton are not included.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
10.       These data show that Lake traffic has not increased significantly
over the last three years; however rather than signifying a slackening of the
demand for Lake transportation services, this suggests that the existing
fleet and cargo handling facilities have reached the limit of their capacity.
11.       The imbalance of traffic may suggest at first sight that there
is enough spare capacity to accommodate all the increased southbound ton-
nage expected from the Karonga district. This is not so, because the
additional tonnage would substantially increase average round trip time
between Chipoka and the north, especially in view of the time required for
loading and unloading with existing terminal facilities at Chipoka. Even
with existing traffic, congestion and delays are an everyday feature at
Chipoka and the increased traffic generated by the Karonga Rural Development
Project will further aggravate the situation.
12.       Delays at Chipoka result fron the poor condition of the present
jetty, parts of which are falling away; silting up of the berthing face;
restricted space, absence of dependable cargo handling equipment; and ex-
posure to the southeast winds of vessels moored to the present jetty.
13.        Improvements to berthing and cargo handling facilities at the
port will increase the effective capacity of the Lake Service by increasing
the fleet availability (Table 1). With the future addition of the 600 ton
pontoon, this increased capacity of the Lake Service should adequately accom-
modate all traffic forecast until the 1990's (Table 2).
Rehabilitation Proposals
14.       The items included in the project for rehabilitation and improve-
ment of the Lake Service are as follows:
MK' 000
Chipoka Port
Construction of berths, transit shed, rail
siding, access road, utilities, and sup-
porting facilities 1/                            1,376
Cargo handling equipment                           139
Refitting of MV Mlpasa                                21
Sub-total                                     1,536
Physical Contingencies 2/                          139
Price Contingencies 3/                             404
Total Cost                              2,079
1/ Includes 12% for design and supervision.
2/ Included at 10% of base cost, excluding design and supervision.
3/ Included at 13% of base cost plus physical contingencies for Year 1
and 12% for Year 2.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
C. Economic Justification for Rehabilitating Chipoka Port
15.       A 100% increase in cargo traffic is anticipated between 1975 and
1985 (Table 3). To handle this traffic on the Lake Service would require
the improvement of berthing and cargo handling facilities at Chipoka; other-
wise fleet capacity is limited to current port capacity (Tables 1 and 2).
Furthermore, the condition of the Chipoka facility is deteriorating at such
a rate that its usefullness is rapidly diminishing. If the proposed improve-
ments are foregone, most of Chipoka traffic will have to be handled through
lighterage, which is already needed when the Lake level is low. Lighterage,
however, would not constitute a viable alternative to the proposed improve-
ments: both its initial cost (Table 4) and its operating cost are greater.
This is because:
(i)  the cost of a quay wall necessary to handle the literage
operation is 90% of that required for alongside berthing;
(ii)  ancillary facilities - a railway siding, a transit shed,
utilities, a storage area, etc. - are identical for either
alternative;
(iii) the cargo handling equipment for lighterage is substantially
greater since it includes a requirement for three lighters
and a tug, in addition to the fork lift and mobile crane
also required for either alternative;
(iv)  labor costs are increased for the additional handling
required in the lighterage operation;
(v)  the cargo damage rate for lighterage increases to an esti-
mated 2% of cargo value as opposed to 0.5% for alongside
quay handling; and
(vi)  the cargo handling rate is lower in the lighterage opera-
tion (Table 5).
16.       In  comparison with the alternative of road tansport, the larger
capital outlay needed by the Lake Service is more than compensated by its
lower operating costs. The economic cost of Lake transportation consists
of:
(i) the capital cost for the harbour improvement at Chipoka;
(ii) cargo handling cost at both terminals;
(iii) harbour maintenance cost; and
(iv) vessel operating and maintenance costs.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
The economic cost of road transportation consists only of:
(i) the cost of truck transportation, estimated at 4.3 t per
ton mile; and
(ii) the cost of additional road maintenance estimated at
MK 28,000 per year (Table 6).
The heavy investment needed to build a bitumen road linking Karonga district
to Chipoka has been ignored, on the assumption that this will be completed
whether the Lake Service is rehabilitated or not. Even so, comparison
with the economic costs of the Lake Service suggests that over a 20-year
period, conveyance by the Lake offers savings equivalent to an economic
return of about 18% on the proposed Chipoka port improvements. If the costs
of the latter were increased by 10%, the improvement would still yield a
return of about 16%.
17.       The refitting of the motor vessel Mpasa to increase its oil-carrying
capacity to 200 ton is necessary to cope with the expected traffic increase
from 8,700 ton in 1975 to over 18,000 ton in 1985. The existing fleet could
not otherwise handle such an increase (Table 7).
MIarch 24, 1976



HALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Total One-Way CapacitY of the Lake Fleet
(all cargo)
Self-Propelled                                    One-Way Cargo Pick-Up
Ship                                 MPasa            Ilala           Mkwazi                Barge                Fontoon           Pontoon Excluded            All Ships
(rounded)
1)  Theoretical Cargo Capacity (short tons)                 200             100               200                  380                   600
2)  Average Load per Trip (short tons)                      140              70               140                  270                   420
Rounclcrip Time (oaYs)
3) Terminal time
- At Present                                              6              4                  6                   6
- Following Planned Improvements-/                        3.6            2.4                3.6                 3.6                   6
4)  Sailing Time4/                                            2.2             2.2               2.2                  2.7                   2.2
5) Spare Time (days@/                                         1.5             1.5               1.5                  1.5                   1.5
Total Roundtri) Time (days)
6) At Present                                                 9.7             7.7               9.7                 10.2                   -
7) Following Planned Improvements                             7.3             6.1               7.3                  7.3                   9.7
Nlumber of One-Way Trips per yiear
8) At Present-                                               37              47                37                   36                     -
9) Following Improvements 5-                                 50              60                50                  47                     38
Total One-Way Cargopper Year (short ton)
10) At Present 6/                                         4,7918/          3,290            5,180                9,720                      -                   23,000
11) Following Planned Improvements-/                      7,000            4,200            7,000               12,690                15,960                    31,000                 47,000
1/  Chipoka Harbor improvements reduce service and waiting time at Chipoka by 80%, *r tetal terminal time (two termisalu) by 40L
2!  Average speed:  8 knots; roumdtrip average haul of 420 miles (observed in 1973); 380-ton  barge serves Chilumba-Chipoka exclusively (520 miles roundtrip).
3/  Allow for delays due to weather, arrivals at night or Sunday (when cargo is not worked), ship maintenance, other contingencies.
4/ 365 days/Line 6).
3/  365 days/Line 7).                                                                                                                                                                                z
6/  Line 2) x Line 8).
6/ Line 2) x Line 9).
8/  Theoretical cargo capacity is 185 ton  prior to refitting, giving an average of 130 ton  per trip.
March 24, 1976



ANNEX 13
Table 2
MALAWI
KARONGA RUTAL DEVELOPMEINT PROJECT, PHASE II
Analysis of Lake Fleet Capacity
(short ton )
(dry cargo and oil, one-way)
1975           1980           1985
1.  Anticipated Requirements                   23,117         31,800         45,500
Fleet Capacity
2. Assuming Existing Facilities
at Chipoka
a)  excluding 600 t pontoon             23,000         23,000         23,000
b)  including 600 t pontoonl/              -           23,000          23,000
3. Assuming Improved Facilities
at Chipoka
a)  excluding 600 t pontoon             23,000         31,000         31,000
b)  including 600 t pontoon                -           47,000          47,000
1/ Currently there are no facilities for this roll on - roll off vessel.
March 2h, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOlPMEIT PROJECT, PHASE II
Estimted Dry Cazgo Traffic on lake Serrice
(short ton)
NORTHBOUND              1973       1974        1975       1976         1977         1978          1979         1980          1981         1982          1983         1984          1985
From Chipoka to
Nkhats Bay                   9,290     10,200       9,100      8,370         7,470        7,980         8,530        9,110         9,740       10,410        11,130       11,270        12,740
Karongs District             5,110      4,700       4,200      6,240         7,040        7,880         8,630        9,310        10,020       10,770        11,540       12,350        13,010
Other                          500        700         600        510           540          580           610          650           700           750          810           860          910
Other Northbound                 870      1.200       1.100      1.120         1,140        1.260         1.280        1.300         1,350        1.400         1,450         1.500        1.560
Total Northbound              15,770     16,800      15,000     16,240        16,190       17,700        19,050       20,370        21,810       23,330        24,930       25,980        28,220
Northbound Traffic
resulting from Karonga
projects (included above)       -          -           -       (2,000)      ( 2,500)     ( 3,000)      ( 3,400)     ( 3,700)      ( 4,000)     (4,300)       (4,600)      ( 4,900)      ( 5,000)
SOVrHBOUND
To Chipoka from
Nkhats Bay                   2,550      2,500       2,300      3,470         3,610        3,750         3,900        4,682         5,000        5,650         6,330        6,830         7,240
Karonga District             5,030      7,500      6,800       9,230        10,750       11,530       12,420        13,260        13,610       14,210        14,320       14,445        14,570
other                          500        600         600         80            85          100           130          140           150          160           170          180           190
Other Southbound               3.630      2.600       2.300      2.440         2,580        2,740         2.900        3.070         3.2          3.460         3.670        3.900         4.130
Total Southbound              11,710     13,200      12,000     15,220        17,025       18,120        19,350       21,152        22,020       23,480        24,490       25,355        26,130
Southbound Traffic
resulting from Karonga
(included above)                -          -                   (8,750)     ( 9,500)      (10,200)     (11,000)      (11,750)     (12,000)      (12,500)     (12,500)      (12,500)      (12,500)
TOTAL DRY CARGO TRAFFIC       27,480     30,000      27,000     31,460        33,215       35,820        38,400       41,522        43,830       46,810        49,420       51,335        54,350
1/ Kwanga Sugar and Viphya Pulp Projects excluded.
March 24, 1976



ANNEX 13
Table 4
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Initial Investment Required for
a Lighterage Operation at Chipoka
Chipoka Terminal                                                 K '000
Construction of quay wall, transit
shed, rail siding, access road,
utilities, and supporting facilities!                       1,394
Tug and three lighters                                        386
Cargo handling equipment                                      153
Refitting of MV Mpasa                                                23
Total                  1,956
1/ Includes 10% physical contingencies and 12% design and supervision.
March 24, 1976



NALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVEHOP4ENT PROJECT , PEASE II
Cost-Benefit AlaJ.ySis of Chipoka Port Improvements versus Lighterage
1976        1977        1978         1979        1980         1981         1982        1983         1984         1985 - 1995
1) Economic Costs of Lishterage Alternative
a) Investment Costs for Lighterage                       508       1,448            0           0            0           0            0           0            0                0
b) Costs at Chipoka
(i)  maintenance                                       0           0           12          12          12           12           12          12           12               12
(ii) cargo handling costs
- labor costs_/                                   0           0          56           62          66           70           76          80           82               88
- operating cost of equipmenti/                   0           0           6            7           7            8            8           9            9               10
c) Total Cost at Chipoka                                   0           0           74          81           85          90           96         101          103              110
d)  Cost at Other Terminal 3/                              0           0           46          49           52          54           57           60          61               64
e) Vessel Operatng Cost4/                                  0           0           89          96          100         106          113          115         119              122
f)  Cargo Damage-                                          0           0          143         154          167         176          189          199         205              219
Total Costs of Lighterage                                508       1,448          352         380          404         426          455          475         488              515
2) Economic Cost of Improved Port Alternative
a)  Investment Costs at Chipoka                          468       1,207            0           0            0           0            0            0           0                0
b) Costs at each Terminalj!6
Mi)  maintenance                                       -           -           13          13           13          13           13           13          13               13
(ii) cargo handling cost
- labor costs                                     -           -          28           31           33          35           38          40           41               44
- operating cost of equipment                                             5            5            6           6            6            7           7                7
c) Total Cost at Both Term,nals7/                          -           -           92          98          104         108          114          120         122              128
d) Vessel Operating Costsa                                 -           -           89          96          100          106         113          115          119             122
e) Total Cost of Improved Port Alternative               468       1,207          181         194          204          214         227          235          241             250
3)  Savings Resulting from Proposed Improvements              40         241          171         186          200          212         228          240          247             265
4) Dry Cargo Traffic through Chipoka (short ton )         27,900      29,495       31,820      34,220       37,152       39,220      41,950       44,300      45,660           48,660
3   K/ M  1.8 per short ton.
2/ MK .2 per short ton.
3/ MK 13,000 for maintenance, MK 1.05 per ton for cargo handling (MK .9 for labor and iK .15 for equipment.                                                                             '-D
4/  t 1.4 per ton-mile in 1976, decreasing to t 1.2 in 1985. Average haul is 210 miles.
5/ Additional damage-of-1.57L of cargo carried, valued at NK-900 per ton.
6/ Same assumptions as 3/.                                                                                                                                                               , -
7/ Twice the costs at each terminal.
8/ Same as 4/.
March 24, 1976



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Lake Transportation versus Road Transportation
(K '000)
1976          1977        1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985  thru  1995
1. Economic Cost of Lake Transportation
a)  Chipoka Port Improvements                       468         1,207            0            0            0            0            0            0            0                   0
b) Cost at each Term inal
(i)  Maintenance0n                                                         13           13           13           13           13           13           13                   13
(ii) Cargo Handling Cost
- Labor Cost23                                                        28           31           33           35           38           40           41                   44
- Operating Cost of Equipment2l                                        5            5            6            6            6            7            7                    7
c)  Total Cost at Both Terinals                                                 92           98          104          108          114          120          122                 128
d)  Vessel Operating Cost-                                                      89           96          100          106          113          115          119                 122
e)  Total Cost of Lake Transportation /             468         1,207          181          194          204          214          227          235          241                 250
2. Economic Cost of Road Transportation
a)  Truck Operating Cost6/                                                     398          428          464          490          524          554          574                 608
b)  Additional Road Maintenance7/                                               28           28           28           28           28           28           28                   28
c)  Total Cost of Road Transportation                                          426          456          492          518          552          582          602                 636
3.  Savings Resulting from Proposed Improvements    -468            -1,207          245         262          288          304          325          347          361                  386
4.  Dry Cargo Traffic through Chipoka (ton )         27,900         29,495      31,820       34,220       37,152       39,220       41,950       44,300       45,660              48,660
1/ Comsultant's estimate.
2/  MK.90 per ton - Consultant eStimate.
3/ 9.15 per ton - Consultant estimate revised to exclude depreciation.
4/ t 1.4 per ton - mile in 1976, decreasing to t 1.2 per ton mile in 1985. Average haul is 210 miles.
5/  We assumed that losses due to cargo damage are the same for both transportation modes.  The corresponding cost is therefore ignored here.                                                  5,
6/  t 4.3 per ton mile; average road haul of 290 miles.
7/  Required by the traffic increase.                                                                                                                                                           m
March 24, 1976         -



MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Justification for Mpasa Convers,ion (Increased Bulk Fuel Capacity)
1975             1976             1977             1978             1979              1980             1985
Total Lake Transport Requirements (ton )                          8,717             9,414           10,167           10,980           11,859            12,808           18,819
Present Capability - Ilaba 30 Ton  @ 48 Trips/Year                1,440             1,440            1,440            1,440            1,440            1,440             1,440
Present Capability - Tug/Pontoon 20 Ton @ 60
Trips/Year                                                     1,200            1,200            1,200             1,200            1,200            1,200
Net to be Carried by MfPssa                                       b,O77             6,774            7,527            8,340            9,21910,168                     _6 179
Capability Mpasa (current - 120 tons
@ 72 Trips/Year (4.65 Days/Trip) 1/                            8,640            8,640             8,640            8,640            8,640            8,640             8,640
Surplus                                                       +2,563           +1,866           +l,113           +  300
Deficit                                                                                                                               579           -1,528           -7,539
Capability Mpasa (converted) - 200 tons
@ 85 Trips/Year (4.0 Days/Trip) 2/                            17,000            17,000           17,000           17,000           17,000           17,000            17,000
Surplus                                                       10,923           10,226            9,743            8,660             7,781           +b,832           +  821
Assumes 335 sailing days/year.                                                                                                                                                     _
2/ Reduced due to elimination of cargo handling.
March 24, 1976



ANNEX IL
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELO}MET PROJECT , PHASE II
Project implementation Schedule
'alendau Yer                    1976                       1-977                     1978                       1979                       1980
34            1 2           41    li?   I4 I1?  34I   l'f2    3  4
Racruitment of Additii    e
L ndhusbndryn    gius   lXe
Senior Staff (STA mnd higher)                     7                          3
KXronga and Chiti Ap 
N W  Mzi3ba                                                                       1
Tviw-Lifidzi                                                   1
XKaings              /                            I
:'arlous Loctio-s                                 1
J%nior Staff (TA end DA)
Il-rongs mnd Chitip 1                            16 12    1                                             6                        3
NW. Mzimb.                                                                  2
ThWii-Lifidzi                                                          1   23
K^a. ng-                                          2
Various Locations                            2*        I               1    3
Cwwtructieo   of St," Houre
Kaoongn and Chitipa                                                       25-        1       1      25       1         1       25-1
N.W. 14.ib1
Thiwi-Lifidd s3i
I_WirV                                                                     6      1                  30
Kmin6a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Li loong                                                                  23
Various Lacations /                                                        3                          3
Conatruction of Ruml TSreiY Quota
Karpnga and ChitIpa                                                        I
N Wi. Mimba1
Thivi-Lifidzi
Ka,ings.
C         itruotAon of   ARC  arket. eadl
!g6t Store s/
Karonga and Chitips                                                        3                          3                         3
N.W. MzmAba                                                                I
1tZi-Liifidzi                                                      __ 2_1_I_1_1
KMin,1                                                                                                3
io   of    tb Cnters  _/
Uroa snd Chitipa                                                           4
Mzimba                                                                     I
Coaatruction of Borehole*
Keronge and Chitipn                                                        0                         2                         21       1
Thiwi-LifidAi                                                         115
tNinga                                                                                               10i
Road Construction or Inprovineot (mimse)
Raisi_Lin  iti                                                            26                        25                          26                     21
ThlvA-Lifid si
Wm's keapowsr sitdion
I.tNrs CredIt Arre esuts
Preparation NRDP I
Budgetary Mopl-oti" Ag4riaultarj
Pro-at
Coffee Study
I/ Recruitmeot of various other staff not shown (see Annex 8).
2/ nawo:z, Henga, Heimba, Gov., Chonda, Ntchisi.
3/ Excluding smell input sheds.
4/ Including staff housing and boreholes.
MHrch 2, 1976



ANNEX 15
MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Key Indicators i
(Karonga and Chitipa Districts)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4
(1975/76) (1976/77) (1977/78) (1978/79) (1979/80)
Improved Cropping Areas, acres
Karonga, rainfed rice                        5,000     6,500      8,000     9,500    11,000
Karonga, irrigated rice (Lufira)               500     1,000     1,250      1,500     1,500
Karonga, dryland crops                       3,375     4,875     6,375      7,875     9,375
Chitipa                                      1,600     2,732      4,332     6,500     9,100
Number of Farmers Receivina
Seasonal Credit
Karonga, rainfed rice                        2,500     2,250      4,000     4,750      5,500
Karonga, irrigated rice                        250       500        500       500        500
Karonga, dryland crops                       2,000     2,500      3,000     3,500      3,500
Chitipa                                        300       600      1,000     1,500     2,100
Distribution of In.puts on Credit
Sulphate of ammonia, m ton                     594       804      1,029     1,271     1,486
Compound 20.20.0, m ton                        104       165        239       331        436
Rice seed, sh ton                               95       115        140       165        180
Maize seed, sh ton                              10        15         21        28         36
Groundnut seed, sh ton                          32        47         65        86       109
Cotton insecticides, one acre packages       1,125     1,625      2,125     2,625      3,125
! Cumulative, including Phase I developments.
March 1, 1976






MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
KRDP Organization Chart
.. Ntr.Re.-                            _-1
S-i 
_                                                                                                                          I   l    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mhnu
< <                                                                                                                                         |    Fin nca l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Miten
Jinnory 15, 1976
World B.nk-15653






MALAWI
KARONGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources under the
NRDP Preliminary Investment Phase
(tentative)
|MmIlJyv of A"'icultre'
ond Noiu-1 RnOt,e-                                                     E cfNRDP A                     lronomir           P
Mi-,r If Aq- ultur and N-rrt1.1
Pttmanint Secretary  r       --_________Pla                                 Rrno urve ;               Ar5rc,nstrar,O
Prrinyt .                 v If iel    nd Surveys
Prni- of Ces -nilg  D-        Dep-
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~AtCioa                                                    Projectrtbo                    Crypta etucl      ArcluE      |                                         _____   ___    
L i                                                                                               C              -j                                              nn.n
F { _ _ _ _ _ _ _A - 1 -
jtyceseeic  eiva  t_cco Mauou, _icSo andm llnye andtY th: Proec tlatijart 0ti
Div.-.1a    |                 I r P-.'--~1
A96-11-                                                                                                                                                        11
dL                                                                           L--   --- -
I- Inld.  -prtIng r           .na  lic5a Mrur, Llongw  and Bl-,.,r and lhe P,.i-c HeW-1arers If th.
KROP and CRLOP Proects.
jon-arY 1  1976                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WorId B..k-1t5652






oo -                                           -     t t                                          t
L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I           a.    .....
Pk ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                         
.io~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
26)



