CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1286 T-MAI
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Karonga Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 24, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors
of the Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third
Window (hereinafter called the Fnd) and upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such Resolution;
(C) the Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate term loans, of which this Loan is
one; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MANR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources;
(b) "ADMARC" means the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation of the Borrower, established under the Farmers Marketing
Act, as amended by the Farmers Marketing (Amendment) Act, 1971;
(c) "First Project Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Karonga Rural Development Project) dated January 26, 1972
between the Borrower and the International Development Association;
(d) "KRDP" means the Karonga Rural Development Project being
implemented under the First Project Agreement;


﻿-3-
(e) "NRDP" means the Borrower 's National Rural Development
Program; and
(f) "NRDP sub-projects" means NRDP's preliminary investment
phase in the three development areas of North West Mzimba, Thivi-
Lifidzi and Kawinga.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million
two hundred thousand dollars ($9,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a coTm-itment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and eighty-five hundredths per cent (4.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time; provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any
time determine that the resources of* the Fund shall not be suffi-
cient to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual in-
terest payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid
by the Administrator at that interest payment date as specified
in paragraph (C) of the Preambic to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, upon notification by the Administrator of such determina-
tion and the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional
interest on such principal amount of the Loan equal to such short-
fall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation., and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proccads of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the design stan-
dards for the construction of houses under the Project shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) complete or cause to be
completed the land resource and agro-economic survey for NRDP sub-
projects; and (ii) submit to the Bank, not later than September 30,
1977, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, detailed
development plans for said sub-projects.


﻿-8-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall submit, not later than June 30,
1977 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, to the
Bank for review, proposals for the Borrower's future agricultural
credit arrangements.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that no new appoint-
ments to the post of KRDP Project Manager established pursuant to
the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of the First Project Agreement
shall be made without prior consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) employ such addi-
tional staff at NRDP as are referred to in Schedule 5 of this
Agreement; and (ii) ensure that no significant changes in the
said level of staffing shall be made without prior consultation
with the Bank.
(b) For the purposes of proper coordination of the various
NRDP activities, the Borrower shall: (i) employ, in consultation
with the Bank, an NRDP coordinator within MANR; and (ii) establish
an NRDP liaison committee under the chairmanship of MANR's Permanent
Secretary, or his representative, with senior officials representing
the Office of the President, ADMARC, the Borrower's Ministries of
Works and Supplies, Health and Community Development and the Trea-
sury and Department heads of MANR.


﻿-9-
Section 3.10. In order to determine a feasible rate of future
expansion of the Borrover's agricultural development activities,
the Borrower shall: (i) cause MANR to review MANR's manpower situ-
ation for the following ten years; and (ii) discuss with the Bank
the results of such review not later than June 30, 1977, or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all reasonable steps to
ensure that the levels of agricuitural staff in the Karonga and
Chitipa Districts shall be maintained substantially as set forth
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equival'nt lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 11 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of 'he Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records, including separate accounts, adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower, including MANR, the Ministry of Health, Malawi Railways
Limited and ADMARC, responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MANR, ADMARC, Malawi Railways
Limited and the Ministry of Health to: (i) have their accounts
and financial statements in respect of the Project for each fis-
cal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for such


﻿- 12 -
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of MANR, ADMARC, Malawi
Railways Limited and the Ministry of Health and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall undertake a study of the
long-term budgetary implications to the Borrower of all agricul-
tural development projects, and shall, not later than September 30,
1977, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, sub-
mit the results of such study for review by the Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall establish or cause to be
established such tariffs as shall be necessary to cause the
Malawi Lake Service to generate sufficient revenue to cover op-
erating costs and depreciation or debt service, whichever is
greater.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date September 24, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ George Banda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in e-h Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
1.   KRDP
(a) Vehicles,               600,000         100% of foreign
machinery and                           expenditures or
equipment                               75% of local
expenditures
(b) Civil Works other     1,000,000         75%
than market fac-
ilities to be con-
structed by ADMARC
(c) Personnel             1,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures
(d) Other operating       1,000,000         100% of foreign
costs including                         expenditures or
credit operation                        75% of local
and drugs for                           expenditures
health component


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
2.   NRDP
(a) 7ehicles, ma-           4oo,0o          100% of foreign
chinery and                             expenditures or
equipment                               75% of local
expenditures
(b) Civil Works other       900,000          75%
than market fac-
ilities to be con-.
structed by ADMARC
(c) Personnel               400,000          100% of foreign
expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures
(d) Other operating         300,000          100% of foreign
costs including                         expenditures or
credit operations                       75% of local
and drugs for                           expenditures
health component
(e) Consultants             130,000          100% of foreign
expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures
3.   Lake Transport
(a) Civil Works           19500,000          75%
(b) Cargo handling          150,000          100% of foreign
equipment                               expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(c) Refitting of             20,000          100% of foreign
the motor                               expenditures or
vessel Mpasa                            75% of local
expenditures
.   Unallocated               1,800,000
TOTAL      9,200,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on Ahe
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out uf the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
dravals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
in respect of Category 2 (C) prior to the establishment of post
positions for the NRDP additional staff referred to in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.


﻿- 20 -
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Karonga and Chitipa Districts
(1) Continuation and expansion of field extension services
to farmers.
(2) Continuation and expansion of animal and land husbandry
services.
(3) Continuation and expansion of seasonal and medium-term
credits for farm inputs.
(4) Continuation of agricultural and hydrological research.
(5) Construction of about 6 market complexes in Karonga
and about 3 market complexes in Chitipa. Each such
complex will consist of about 280 ton input store, a
market building and staff housing and the construc-
tion of about 8 small input sheds in Chitipa.
(6) Expansion of health facilities including the construc-
tion of 3 maternity wards in Karonga, 2 maternity
wards and 7 health posts in Chitipa.
(7) Construction of about 20 staff houses in Karonga and
about 75 staff houses in Chitipa.


﻿- 22 -
(8) Construction of office accommodation.
(9) Construction of one training center and upgrading of
two training centers in Chitipa District.
(10)      Construction or upgrading of about 90 miles of feeder
roads and improvement of other access roads, construc-
tion of about 85 boreholes, about TO minor bridges and
about 20 culverts and 2 drifts.
(11)      Continued Project evaluation.
Part B:   National Rural Development Program
(1) Expansion of MANR's central services to increase its
capacity to prepare and implement future investment
phases of NRDP through:
(a) strengthening of the (i) land husbandry section;
(ii) agro-economic survey section; and (iii) ac-
counting services, by provision of additional
staff, offices and the necessary supporting fa-
cilities;
(b) provision of agricultural research staff to con-
duct crop experiments in six future NRDP sulb-
projects;
(c) construction of about 35 staff houses;


﻿- 23 -
(d) establishment of an evaluation unit comprising
of 15 staff with supporting facilities at MANR's
Regional headquarters at Mzuzu;
(e) establishment of a road construction unit within
MANR; and
(f) provision of consultants to undertake special
studies on various subjects related to the imple-
mentation of the Project.
(2) Preliminary investments in NRDP sub-projects as follows:
(a) construction of about 20 houses in North West
Mzimba, about 30 houses in Thivi-Lifidzi and
about 30 houses in Kawinga;
(b) construction of one training center in North West
Mzimba, 2 training centers each in Thivi-Lifidzi
and Kawinga;
(c) construction of about 20 boreholes in North West
Mzimba, about 16 boreholes in Thivi-Lifidzi and
about 10 boreholes in Kawinga;
(d) construction of about 3 bush markets input stores
in North West Mzimba, about 3 input stores in
Thivi-Lifidzi and 2 input stores and one market
in Kawinga;


﻿-24-
(e) expansion of the extension and land husbandry
services staff;
(f) construction of the necessary office accommodation
in North West Mzimba, Thivi-Lifidzi and Kawinga;
(g) construction of 2 bridges in North West Mzimba;
(h) construction of about 50 miles of rural roads in
Thivi-Lifidzi; and
(i) construction of additional health facilities in
North West Mzimba.
Part C:   Lake Transport
(1) Expansion and improvement of berthing and related
facilities at Chipoka Lake terminal.
(2) Provision of cargo handling equipment at Chipoka Lake
terminal.
(3) Refitting of the motor vessel Mpasa to increase its
bulk fuel carrying capacity.
*              *              *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1980.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1983                                  155,000
July 15, 1983                                     160,000
January 15, 1984                                  165,000
July 15, 1984                                     165,000
January 15, 1985                                  175,000
July 15, 1985                                     175,000
January 15, 1986                                  180,000
July 15, 1986                                     185,000
January 15, 1987                                  190,000
July 15, 1987                                     195,000
January 15, 1988                                  195,000
July 15, 1988                                     205,000
January 15, 1989                                  210,000
July 15, 1989                                     210,000
January 15, 1990                                  220,000
July 15, 1990                                     225,000
January 15, 1991                                  230,000
July 15, 1991                                     235,000
January 15, 1992                                  240,000
July 15, 1992                                     245,000
January 15, 1993                                  255,000
July 15, 1993                                     255,000
January 15, 1994                                  265,000
July 15, 1994                                     275,000
January 15, 1995                                  275,000
July 15, 1995                                     285,000
January 15, 1996                                  290,000
July 15, 1996                                     300,000
January 15, 1997                                  305,000
July 15, 1997                                     315,000


﻿- 26 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1998                                  320,000
July 15, 1998                                     330,000
January 15, 1999                                  335,000
July 15, 1999                                     345,000
January 15, 2000                                  355,000
July 15, 2000                                     360,000
January 15, 2001                                  375,000


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          3.90%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5.65%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one years
before maturity                          7.45%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                    8.15%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts A (3) and B hereof, contracts for
civil works for the Chipoka Lake terminal referred to in Part C
of the Project and contracts for vehicles, machinery and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be let
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part C (1) of the Proj-
ect shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A
of the Guidelines.
(b) Contracts for vehicles, machinery and equipment shall
be so. grouped as to encourage international competition.
3.   Procurement of farm inputs, drugs and other recurrent sup-
plies shall be in accordance with competitive bidding advertised
locally.
B.   Procurement without Contracting
1.   Staff houses, offices, roads, bridges, health facilities and
training centers referred to in Parts A (6) through (10) shall be


﻿- 29 -
constructed by KRDP's construction unit and the Borrower's Ministry
of Works by force account or by contractors in accordance with
competitive bidding advertised locally.
2.   The boreholes referred to in Parts A (10) and B (2) (c) of
the Project shall be constructed by the Geological Survey Depart-
ment of MANR by force account.
3.   Civil works under Parts B (1) and (2) (a), (b), (f), (g)
and (i) of the Project shall be constructed by the Borrower's
Ministry of Works by force account or by contractors in accordance
with competitive bidding advertised locally.
4.   Civil works under Parts A (5) and B (2) (d) of the Project
shall be constructed by ADMARC by force account.
5.   The construction and upgrading of rural roads under Part B
(2) (h) of the Project shall be carried out by MANR by force ac-
count.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Part C (1) of the Project and to be procured in accordance with
the procedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower
may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 30 -
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Bank, a p .rticular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference.
(b) The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the prefer-
ence and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and
comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(c) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and fi-
nal contracts:


﻿- 31 -
With respect to all contracts for civil works under Part C (1)
of the Project and all contracts for vehicles, machinery and equip-
ment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.


﻿- 32 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
Additional Staffing for NRDP
The following additional staffing will be provided for NRDP:
Part of the                                         When
Project                  Personnel      Number    Assigned
B(l)(a)(i)     Professional Officer        1 )    During Year 1
B(l)(a)(i)     Technical Assistant         2 )    of Project
B(l)(a)(ii)    Senior Technical Officer    1 )
B(l)(a)(ii)    Senior Technical Assistant  1 )    During Year 1
B(l)(a)(ii)    Senior Statistical Clerk    1 )    of Project
B(l)(a)(iii)   Systems Analyst             1 )    During Year 1
of Project
B(l)(b)        Senior Technical Assistant  1 )    During Year 1
Technical Assistant         5 )    2 in Year 1 and
) 3 in Year 2 of
)    Project
B(l)(c)        Professional Officer        1 )
Technical Officer           1 )    During Year 1
Technical Assistant         3 )    of Project
Development Assistant       9 )
Clerical Typist             1 )
B(l)(a)(iii)   Chief Accountant            1 )
B(l)(a)(iii)   Senior Accountant           1 )
B(l)(a)(iii)   Accountant                  5 )    During Year 1
B(l)(a)(iii)   Senior Accounts Assistant   1 )    of Project
B(l)(a)(iii)   Accounts Assistant          6 )
B(l)(a)(iii)   Field Officer - Credit      1 )
B(l)(e)        Construction and Conser-    1 )    During Year 1
vation Officer                )    of Project


﻿Part of the                                        When
Project                  Personnel      Number    Assigned
B(2)(e):
(i) North     Senior Technical Officer    1 )   During Year 1
West                                         of Project
Mzimba
Technical Officer - Ex-
tension and Training      I )
Technical Officer -
Credit                    1 )
Technical Officer - Land
Husbandry                 1 )
Technical Officer - Re-
search                    1 )    During Year 2
Technical Assistant -              of Project
Research and Training     7 )
Technical Assistant -
Credit                    2 )
Technical Assistant -
Land Husbandry            4 )
Technical Assistant -
Research                  1 )
(ii) Thivi- Senior Technical Officer -
Lifidzi:   Extension and Training    1 )    During Year 1
Clerical Officer            1 )    of Project
Technical Officer - Ex-
tension and Training      2 )
Technical Officer -
Credit                    1 )
Technical Officer - Land
Husbandry                 1 )
Technical Officer -
Tobacco Specialist        1 )
Technical Assistant -
Extension and Training   20 )    During Year 2
Technical Assistant -         )    of Project
Research                  1 )
Technical Assistant -
Farm Home Instructress    2 )
Technical Assistant -
Forest Ranger             1 )
Typist                      1 )


﻿- 35 -
Part of the                                        When
Project                 Personnel      Number    Assigned
(iii) Kavinga: Chief Technical Officer    1 )
Technical Officer - Re-    1 )    During Year 2
search                          of Project


﻿프


