Docwmtn of
The World Bank
FOR OmcaAL USE ONLY
Repwt No P-6062-GZ
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
FRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDrT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 7,3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
FOR AN
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
MAY 25, 1994
MICRO0GRAPI!I (,5
Reeport No: P-   6062 JGE
Type: 1M
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankl authorization.



CRNCY QUJVALENTS
Currency Unit - Coupons
EXCHANGE RATES: PER $
(End of Period)
Dec.  1992                     400       Rubles
Jun.   1993                    900       Rubles
Aug.  1993                   7,000       Coupons
Dec.  1993                 120,000       Coupons
Jan.   1994                200,000       Coupons
Apr   1994               1,200,000       Coupons
January 31, 1994    SDR 1 = US$1.38
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMU           = Aid Management Unit
BAFS          = Broadly Adapted Financial Statements
EU            = European Union
CBN             The Central Bank of the Netherlands
CIS           = Commonwealth of Independent States
CSEI          = Committee for Social and Economic Information
FSU           = Former Soviet Union
MOE           = Ministry of the Economy
MOF             Ministry of Finance
NBG           = National Bank of Georgia
PIU           = Project Implementation Unit
SCFER         = State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations
SNA           = System of National Accounts
SOE           = State-Owned Enterprise
STI           = State Tax Inspectorate
SPM           = Ministry of State Property Management
USAID         = United States Agency for International Development
UNCTAD        = United Nations Conference on Trade and
Developmel't
GEORGIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
Credit and Project Suwmarz
Borrower:                  Government of the Republic of Georgia
Credit Amount:             SDR 7,300,000
Terrns:                    Standard IDA terms (thirty-five years, including ten years of
grace)
Project Duration:          Implementation will start July 1994 and last through June 1997
Project Objectives:        Assist the Georgian government in its efforts to move to a
private market economy through strengdtening public
institutions in three functional areas: (a) financial sector,
(b) economic management, and (c) privatization and enterprise
reform
Financing Plan:            US$million
Local          Foreign         Total
Government        0.2                           0.2
IDA                           10.1          10.1
Grant                          0.6           0.6
Total           0.2           10.7           10.9
* The Government of the Netherlands
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Poverty Category:          Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    Not applicable
Map:                       IBRD No. 24286
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanie of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TIRE EXECUIIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSEi) CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
FOR AN INSTITUFION BUILDING PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Georgia for SDR 7,300,000, the equivalent of
about US$10.1 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years, to help finance
institution building activities.
2.    Georgia is a relatively small countiy with a population of 5.4 million situated in the
southern part of the Caucasus region. It was the first of the non-Baltic states to declare
independence from the former Soviet Union (FSU), on April 9, 1 99 1. Formal contacts between
the World Bank and the Republic of Georgia (hereinafter referred to as Georgia) began in March
1992, and the country joined the World Bank in August 1992. A Country Economic
Memorandum, entitled 'Georgia, From Crisis to Recovery: A Blueprint for Reforms'
(Report No. 11275-GZ) was distributed to the Board in May 1993.
3.    Soon after its independence Georgia became embroiled in political and civil strife which
had a devastating effect on the economy. The intensity of the armed conflict abated in late 1993,
and the government has since refocused its attention on establishing law and order and rebuilding
the economy. The government has requested IDA support in its efforts to design and implement
stabilization and market reforms. The proposed operation is in response to that request. It would
constitute the first operation by the World Bank Group in Georgia,
4.    Background. Prior to the breakup of the FSU, Georgia was a relatively well-off state
with a strong tradition of entrepreneurship. The Georgian economy's sources of strength
included agriculture (citrus, tea, wines) and agro-industries (processed food, fertilizers), tourism
(the Black Sea coast), and natural resources (e.g., manganese). Georgia was also a relatively
large producer of steel pipes, electric motors, synthetic fibers, roofing materials, textiles, and
shoes. Furthermore, the country's location made it a primary transit conduit for goods shipped
elsewhere in the Caucasus. External trade, largely with the republics of the FSU, played a large
role in the economy. C-eorgia relied heavily on imports of energy from other republics, notably
Russia (electricity, crude oil) and Turkmenistan (natural gas). Imported energy amounted to
about 95 percent of the total energy supply in 1992-93. Wheat, sugar, and some heavy
machinery were the other major imports. Georgia's main exports included citrus, tea, tobacco,
wine, and mineral water.
5.    Since independence, Georgia has suffered from intense civil conflict. The war in
Abkhazia continued throughout 1992-93. The conflict has resulted in a large influx of refugees
from the Abkhazia region to the other parts of Georgia, worsening the economic plight of the
country. A ceasefire is now in effect and negotiations have been initiated to resolve the dispute.
During the period, the government was also fighting against supporters of the deposed President
Gamsakhurdia. This threat was eliminated only by end-1993. Finally, the situation in South
Ossetia remains calm but fragile.
6.     The war had a devastating effect on the Georgian economy. It directly affected
Georgia's main exports of tea and citrus and almost wiped out earnings from tourism. In
addition, recession in the FSU, adverse terms of trade movements, the breakdown of marketing
channels and trade, an earthquake, and strikes and political violence accelerated the economic



- 2 -
decline. The per capita GNP is estimated to have declined from US$1,640 in 1991 to less than
US$800 in 1992; output declined further by 40 percent in 1993. The fiscal deficit in 1993 is
estimated to have reached nearly 35 percent of GDP in 1993 and deteriorated further in the first
quarter in 1994. Inflation accelerated from 80 percent per annum in 1991 to an average of 60
percent per mont. in the first two months of 1994. The Georgian coupon, proclaimed a the only
legal tender in August 1993, had virtually collapsed by early 1994; the rate of exchange for one
U.S. dollar rose from about 7,000 coupons in August lY93 to 1,200,000 by the end of April
1994. Increasingly, only Russian rubles and hard currencies are accepted as means of payment.
There has been an erosion in the government control on the economy (revenue collection
accounted for only 3 percent of GDP in 1993), and there is evidence of a growing underground
economy. The erosion of government control also contributed to a deterioration in the crime
situation in the country, which is now beginning to improve.
7.    Not surprisingly, the economic decline has resulted ir a sharp deterioration of social
conditions. Living standards have plummeted. Rationing for basic commodities was introduced
in December 1993. Central heating in Tbilisi was discontinued for the winter, and electric power
has been rationed -- with more than 12 hours of daily power shutdowns. The shortage of fuel
and electricity has forced cuts in public transport, and the influx of refugees ,rom Abkhazia and
western Georgia has aggravated the housing situation.
8.    "ince the beginning of 1994, the government has begun to consolidate its control over
the country. Armed opposition to the government has abated, there is an improvement in the law
and order situation, and a new team is in place which has renewed efforts to rebuilding the
economy through market oriented reforms. Already progress has been made in implementing
structural reforms in several areas: virtually all housi2g hab been privatized, and progress have
been made in privatizing agricultural land. The government has initiated small-scale enterprise
privatization through auctions and leasing. Most prices (except energy and food products) have
been liberalized and the import regime is relatively open. However. Georgia's transition to a
stable market economy will require strong monetary and fiscal measures to ensure
macroeconomic stability, further price and trade liberalization, deeper structural changes in the
enterprise and banking sector, including acceleration of medium-scale and large-scale ente"prise
privatization and financial sector reform. Better means to protect the most vulnerable population
during the transition period will be necessary. The government has asked for IDA's assistance
with the design and development of these reforms and to strengthen its economic management
capacity.
9.    This project was originally prepared and negotiated in early 1993, but could not be
presented to the Board at that time because major changes took place in the goverwnent and the
civil strife in the country intensified soon after the negotiations. With return of relatively
peaceful conditions in early 1994, a mission visited Georgia in April 1994 and held detailed
discussions with government officials on the urgent priorities for this project. The proposed
project addresses these priorities.
10.   The project will facilitate the design and implementation of reforms, establish the
institutional framework for effective management of a private market economy, and develop a
framework for coordination of technical assistance. This project is not envisaged as a
comprehensive technical assistance framework for the country -- it addresses only high priority
needs in those sectors that are essential to building the foundation for further reforms. It is
entirely likely that diagnostic efforts in some areas, particularly banking and the social sector,
will lead to the identification of needs for technical assistance that may go far beyond the scope



-3 -
of this project. Once IDA gains more experience through this project on the economic, political,
and institutional constraints in the country, other sector specific technical assistance projects
would be considered for IDA or other support.
11.   Government Strat&g   for Institutional Deve'opment. The government is trying to put
into place a reform strategy that balances the need to establish the capabilities and institutions
appropriate to a market-based economy with the Pressures to address immediate concerns to
moderate the social and economic costs of the economic decline. While Georgia has a relatively
skilled and educated work force in both the pulHlic and private sectors, the reform process is
constrained by the lack of adequate experience and institutional capacity to design and implement
structural reforms and to manage a private market economy. The technical staff developing the
details of reform are no. adequately prepared or trained, and are severely overextended. Reform
program details are being developed by a number of agencies within the government, but these
are not efficiently coordinated. The government has recognized this and has concluded that
substantial institution building is required to achieve its goals of market reforms. Three priority
areas have been identified in which IDA support is required: (i) financial sector; (ii) economic
management; and fii) privatization and enterprise reform. In addition, grant funding has been
secured from the European Union (EU) for the restructuring and targeting of the social assistance
and administration. The following paragraphs review the situation in these areas.
12.   Financial Sector.  Georgia, like other FSU republics, follows the inherited Soviet
institutions, laws, policies, accounting standards, and banking practices, which are not suitable
for a market economy. In addition to Aie National Bank of Gsorgia (NBG), there are 5
specialized state banks and 202 "commercial banks" in the country. The barking system is highly
concentrated, with the five state banks - the Agricultural Bank, the Bank for Indistry and
Construction, the Trade Bank, the Social Bank, and the Savings Bank - conlroliing 85% of the
credit. The 'frade Bank has been converted into a joint stock bank but with only 25 percent
private ownership. Of the 202 "commercial banks" started since 1989, about half have state
enterprises as principal owners. The NBG continues to play a significant role in directing and
guaranteeing commercial credits, with re.inancing credits from the NBG constituting the bulk of
lending by the banks. The NBG lacks staff and skills to provide even a minimal banking
supervision role: there are only 3 staff in the supervision department to supervise the whole
banking sector. The financial institutions in Georgia are keen to assume new roles and functions
in the market economy but lack experience in modern banking practices. New financial laws,
infrastructure, accounting standards, and operating practices are needed to facilitate the
decentralization of financial decision making and the introduction of a commercial banking
system.
13.   Economic Management. The economic decision making process in the country is not
coordinated. The Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for making all economic decisions but the
roles and functions of the different government agencies that are required to provide input in the
process are far from clear. The government's capacity for economic policy analysis is presently
very limited and represents a major constraint to the design of appropriate economic reform
policies and programs. Building an effective capability for economic policy analysis represents
a considerable challenge to the government but will be essential if progress with reforms is to
continue. Also, the government's data collection and analysis tools are outdated and not reliable
for decision making in the context of a market oriented economy. There is a need to redefine
the government's methodology for collecting social and economic data and to strengthen public
sector capacity in generating and maintaining essential economic data needed for policy making
and for monitoring their impact.



- 4 -
14.   In order to mobilize external aid resources and effectivelv utilize them in its reform
efforts, the government needs to strengthen skills of its newly established Aid Management
Commission and its Secretariat. Domestic resource mobilization is also hampered by an
inefficient tax administration and a lack of a central treasury system. Also, monitoring of
international trade flows and collection of import duties suffer from an outdated customs
administration. The government has a rudimentary tax collection system: there are problems of
systematic tax avoidance, with which the government is not equipped to deal. The tax structure
needs to be streamlined, new tax regulations more suitable for a market economy have to be
developed, tax monitoring and collection systems needs to be automated, and the State Tax
Inspectorate (STI) needs to be strengthened. In Georgia, as in other FSU republics, the
management of government expenditures took place through multiple bank accounts in the central
bank. This arrangement made the budget execution cumbersome and counterproductive for
efficient macroeconomic management. A central Treasury system needs to be established to
streamline the budget management.
15.   The present tariff policy of a simple customs duty of 2 percent on all imports, 8 percem
on exports, and 20 percent on barter exports is compatible with the existing limited administrative
capabilities. However, taxing and subjecting exports to quotas and licenses is inconsistent with
export facilitation and promotion. These export restrictions need to be abolished, and import
duties need to be reviewed. TMe management and staff of the Customs Department in Georgia
are almost without customs training or experience, and are not prepared to deal with a growing
private, market-based economy. To promote external trade and collect duties efficiently, the
government would need to estabiish trade and tariff procedures and regulations compatible with
a literalized trade environment, strengthen the a-Jministrations responsible for duty collection and
ensure the collection and availability of accurate and timely trade siatistics needed for economic
and fiscal planning.
16.   Privatization and Industrial Enterprise Reform. Through its Program of Privatization of
State and Municipality Owned Enterprises, Georgia is attenmpting to pursue a multi-track approach
to privatization: privatization of all small-scale enterprises through auctions and competitive
bidding; introduction of a mass privatization program; and case-by-case privatization of selected
large enterprises. So far the government has focused its attention on the privatization of small-
scale enterprises (with a book value of less than Rbl 30 million as of January 1993).
Privatization of small-scale enterprises started in early March 1993, and by February 1994, 900
out of 5,000 enterprises approved by the Council of Ministers for privatization - including
vehicles, gas stations, small trading shops, breeding farms, food processing plants, and printing
faciiities - had been privatized. In addition, 270 small-scale and medium-scale enterprises have
been leased, and will be subject to future privatization. The government intends to follow a
voucher scheme in support of mass privatization, and other approaches such as direct sales to
local and foreign investors and management buyouts. vhile this represents a substantial start,
the government needs technical assistance to further design and implement the privatization
program, particularly for medium- and large-scale enterprises. In addition, the bulk of
enterprises that will remain under state ownership in the near term are to be converted to joint
stock companies, and mechanisms need to be developed to improve their performance.
17.   In addition to the above priorities, there is a need to restructure social administration
system to assist the -vulnerable groups during the transition period. The government's ability to
develop and deliver a minimum social safety net is critical to successful economic transformation.
Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, the difficulties of financing social programs have greatly



-5-
increased. These difficulties stem from (i) a shrinking revenue base as the state enterprise sector
collapsed; (ii) an increased claim on social expendititres to protect the urowing number of poor
and unemployed; and (iii) additional expenditures on refugees displaced by the civil conflicts ;n
1992-93. Reforming the social protection system is essential to re-establish baiance in the fiscal
accounts and to respond to the needs of an economy in transition. G}iven the financial constraints,
resources will have to be focused on the most vulnerible groups, namely the unemployed, low
income families, elderly persons, and marginal groups. The government has asked the EU for
assistance in this sector on a grant basis. The EU's project (1.4 million ECU), which is already
under way, aims to strengthen the institutional capacity in the areas of labor and .ocial security,
legal framework, organizational structure, employment services, targeting of benefits, and
training. The EU will also finance limited equiprment for the Minist.y of Labor and Social
Affairs.
18.   World Bank Role and Strategy. The Republic of Georgia requires substantial fikiancial
and technical assistance from the international community in its transition to a market economy.
The World Bank proposes to plrovide IDA resources through this proje-,t to assist the government
in establishing an institutiona basis in designing and initiating the reform measures.
19.   It is recognized by the government and the Bank that this project cannot cover all the
technical assistance needs of Georgia. The project is designed to be only a first step in building
a foundation for market reforms: to identify institutional constraints in the key sectors of the
economy, and to provide quick assistance in designing and initiating urgently needed reform
measures. The Bank wIll continue to assist the government in identifying its further assistance
requirements and in mobilizing resources from the international community to address them in
the near term.
20.   The short-term objective of this credit would be to: (i) build capacity in the public sector
for fundamental economic management; (ii) identify the most urgent problems in the key sectors
of the economy and provide recommendations that can be implemented in the near-term; and (iii)
assist the government in designing and establishing a basis for implementing market reforms,
coordinatirng aid resources from other donors, and serving as a catalyst to mobilize other
financing. The longer-term objective of the project would be to help the government develop the
institutional capacity to independently manage a private market economy. Both IDA and the
governmenit view the technical assistance under this project as a substitute for specific skill
shortages and inadequate local expertise during a limited period of time while local capacities and
institutions are strengthered and enhanced. Hence, training and computerization form an integral
part of this project.
21.   While the World Bank does not yet have project experience with Georgia, it has had
substantial experience with institutional development operations elsewhere. Reviews of past
institution building operations suggest that for the success of such projects: (i) the government
should have clear commitment to market reforms; (ii) the individual beneficiary agencies should
be involved in designing the project; (iii) the procurement process needs to be started very early
in the project implementation cycle; (iv) the project implementation should be assisted with
experienced procurement experts; (v) procurement of computers sho' Id be supported with a
proper computerization plan; and (vii) the project should be coordinated with the technical
assistance provided by the other donors. The design and implementation plans for this operation
have incorporated these lessons: government commitment was confirmed; all project components
were developed in close consultation with the beneficiary agencies; to ensure timely and expedient
implementation, the procurement process has already been initiated; provisions were made for



-6 -
external procurement and computer experts to assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); and
the project preparation was coordinated with all relevant donor agencies.
22.   Prjeect DEcriJptio. On the basis of the economic and sector work already completed,
further work undertaken in preparing the project, and in agreement with the government, this
Institution Buildirg Project would assist in the following areas.
A.    Finacial  tor Reform IUS$2.325.OOO1
a, Financial Sector Infrastructure: The institution building and technical assistance
program will focus on preparing the instix'tional framework for financial sector reforms.
The IDA project wi.l finance consulting services and equipment to: (i) introduce and
implement Broadly Adapted Financial Statements (BAFS), an internationally acceptable
accounting and auditing system; (ii) conduct diagnostic studies of five state-owned banks
and make recommendations for further actions; and (iii) review existing payment system
and make recommendations for steps to streamline the system. In addition, within the
framework of the proposed project, the Central Bank of the Netherlands has agreed to
provide technical assistance on a grant basis for strengthiening the banking supervision
system and the development of a legal framework for the banking sector, and ttki IMF
will provide a senior level advisor to the President of the NBG. The project will be
coordinated with the on-going activities of the other donors: the EU is conducting
training seminars for banking and accounting piofessionals; and USAII) is developing a
training program for comrcercial bankers.
B.    Economic Management [US$S.60.0oO1
b.    Ecunomic Policy Formulation: Support will be provided to the Office of the
Deputy Prime Minister (responsible for economic reforms) to design a strategy for the
restructuring and reform of the government's economic management agencies,
particularly the Ministries of Finance and Economy, and to strengthen economic policy
formulation and analysis. The British KnowHow Fund has agreed to finance a short-term
adviser to provide an initial assessment for this restructuring.  In addition, the
Government of the Netherlands has agreed to provide grant funds to finance a sectoral
economist to work as an adviser to the Deputy Prime Minister. This adviser will be in
addition to the macroeconomist who was originally envisaged under the proposed IDA
project, and who has already been in place under grant funding from USAID.
c.    Statistical Services: Tht government has requested assistance to strengthen its
capacity for data collection and analysis. The project will support consulting services,
training, and equipment to assist the Committee for Social and Economic Information
(CSEI) in (i) reviewing the methodology used for generating and maintaining national
accounts and initiating steps to introduce the internationally acceptable System of National
Accounts (SNA); and (ii) designing and conducting an improved household survey in the
city of Tbilisi.
d.    Tax Administration: Technical as=;stance is needed to help the government
design the tax modernization program, the computerization of the tax offices and the
training of the State Tax Inspectorate (STI) staff. The project is expected to be
completed in two phases: a pilot project for the modernization and computerization of the
central STI and the Tbilisi City Inspectorate; and extension of the computerization and



training to the rest of Georgia. The IMF has agreed to provide consulting services to
streamline the tax administration system, deveiop a computerization plan, and oversee the
implementation of the modernization in the first phase, and is expected to continue its
support to the second phase as well. The IDA project will finance computing equipment
for the first phase. Further modernization activities may be planned on the basis of the
outcome of this pilot project.
e.    Treasury: The governme^nt has decided to establish a modern Treasury which
will provide better expenditure management and will also consolidate currently idle
government balances with the banks into a single Treasury account with the NBG. The
Ministry of Finance has been working with the IMF on the design of the treasury system.
The project is expected to be carried out in two phases: in the first phase, a central
treasury function will be established in the Ministry of Finance and a regional branch in
the city of Tbilisi; in the second phase, regional treasuries will be established throughout
Georgia. The IMF will provide consulting services to oversee the initial work. The IDA
project will finance computers for the est2blishment of the central Treasury office and the
regional office in the city of Tbilisi.
f.    Debt Management and Economic Analysis: The Ministry of Finance has
requested assistance in strengthening its debt management and economic analysis
capacity. The project will finance short-term advisers and eq. nent to assist the
Ministry of Finance in (i) setting up a debt management system, and (ii) training the staff
of the Department for Macroeconomic Analysis. UNCTAD is expected to execute the
debt management component of the project: a computerized system will be installed in
the Ministry of Finance, and hands-on traiing will be conducted in maintaining a modem
debt management system. For the macroeconomic analysis, experts will assist the
Ministry staff in developing computer based economic models, streamline data collection
and analysis tools, and prepare economnc projections.
,.    Strengthening of Customs Administration: This component will assist in the
establishmernt of a customs administration suitable for a private, market economy.
Support will be provi-ied to the Customs Committee in (i) simplifying and reforming the
organization and procedures of customs operations; (ii) modernizing customs
management; (iii) training the customs staff in the customs management and the
computerization; and (iv) computerizing customs clearance procedures, accounts. and
statistics at Tbilisi headquarters and at the Tbilisi airport as the first pilot site. This
component has been prepared with the assistance of and would be executed by
UNCTAD.
h.    Aid Coordination: The governrient has decided that the newly established
Secretariat to the government's Aid Management Commission will work as the Aid
Management Unit (AMU) of the country. The project will finance a long-term external
adviser and equipment to assist and train the staff of the AMU in carrying out its
functions. The adviser(s) will assist the AMU in maintaining donor information,
understanding donor procedures, coordinating country's external aid priorities consistent
with the national development objectives, and communicating those with the external aid
agencies. Also, the project will finance experts to assist the government staff in
analyzing sectoral information with an objective to design and develop projects that will
be acceptable to the donor community. Both the EU and the UNDP have expressed



- 8 -
interest in supporting the initial establishment and functioning of the AMU on a grant
basis.
i.    Proiect Implementation: The project will finance: (i) an external procurement
consulting firm to assist the PIU with the preparation of procurement and disbursement
documents under this project, and to ensure that all procurement under the project follow
the World Bank's procurement guidelines; and (ii) a computerization expert to assist and
train the government staff in developing detailed computerization plans, and implementing
the equipment purchased under this project.
C.    Phratization and Enterpise Reform (US$2.270.MOO
j.    Support for PrivatizajQn:  The credit will finance activities which will help
accelerate implementation of privatization in Georgia. Since the government has already
made significant progress on small-scale privatization, this project will focus on the
development of a broad privatization strate.gy and on initiating mass privatization. The
project will finance: (i) one short-term senior level adviser to assist the Ministry of the
State Property Management (SPM) and 'he Office of the Deputy Prime Minister in
reviewing the current privatization plan, and in identifying impediments to its progress;
and (ii) experts and equipment to (a) assist in formulating the mass privatization program
and the voucher scheme; (b) assist in the design and implementation of a public
information campaign to support the mass privatization campaign; (c) assist in the
development of a privatization methodology and implementation through a pilot
privatization of selected large enterprises; (d) provide training aimed strengthening the
institutional capabilities of SPM in carrying out privatization and enterprise diagnostics;
and (e) review and further develop a legislative framework for privatization. The
privatization component will be coordinated with the already on-going a-ctivities of the
EU and the German Government. In addition, equipment wrill be provided to both the
SPM and the Ministry of Industry to facilitate their work in the privatization process.
23.   Aoject Administration. This credit will be administered in Georgia by the Institution
Building PIU, comprising a project manager and two specialists - one on procurement and
another on disbursements. In addition, the project will finance an experienced procurement
consulting firm to assist the PIU for the first 12 months of the project. The administrative burden
placed on government staff has been minimized to the extent possible by packagin- the operation
into as few contracts as possible. The project has provided extensive funding to conduct in-
country training as well as external training of the government staff from all the beneficiary
agencies. Two project components will be executed under directed-source arrangements with a
UN specialized agency (customs administration and Debt Management: UNCTAD), in accordance
with World Bank guidelines, thereby further reducing the administrative burden on the
government.
24.   As was noted above, parallel financing will be provided by the Government of the
Netherlands for a sector economist to support the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. The
British KnowHow Fund will finance a short-term adviser for restructuring of the government
economic management agencies. Technical assistance has been arranged on a grant basis from
the Central Bank of the Netherlatds for banking supervision and legal infrastructure. The IMF
will provide technical assistance for three areas in the economic management component (Tax,
Treasury, and adviser for the NBG). The project will be coordinated with the on-going activities



9 -
of the USAID, Gerrnany, and the EU in the areas of economic awalysis, bankers' training, and
privatization. Further donor coordination efforts will continue.
25.   At this juncture it is not possible to identify all o. the country's essential assistance
requirements. New needs are likely to arise during the implementation period of this operation
which should be supported by this credit. To provide flexibility in pro.ject implementation, it was
agreed that the project funds can be reallocated among identified project components on the basis
of mutual agreement between the government and the Bank.
26.   The project will be carried out over a period of three years at a total cost of
US$10.9 million equivalent. The proposed credit, together with grants from other donors, would
finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan
are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of d 3bursements are shown
in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Georgia are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. More detailed information
on the project is provided in the Technical Annex. A summary of key project activities is given
in Attachment 1. A map is also attached.
27.   Environmental Aspec. As this project is not expected to have any significant negative
environmental impact, it has been placed in category C for the purposes of OD 4.01, and does
not require an environmental assessment. Assistance would be provided to help the government
develop a strategy for settling environmental liability questions under the privatization component.
In addition, the project will finance environmental audits for the early candidates for large-scale
privatization as required.
28.   Pmr   Objectives. The project is under the Ecunemic Management (EA) category.
29.   Actions Afreed. The government has confirmed the scope of work to Fe fimanced from
the proposed project. During negotiations, agreement was obtained on: (i) a financing plan,
including cofinancing from the Government of the Netherlands; (ii) terms of reference and short
lists for all consulting assignments; and (iii) coordination and implementation arrangements. It
was also decided that (i) the Secretariat of the Government's Aid Management Commission in
the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister will work as the AMU, and (ii) the PIU was established
under the SCFER.
30.   Benefits and Risks. The proposed credit would conduct diagnostic analysis and identify
urgent problems in the key economic sectors. The assistance provided tdrough this project will
train the government staff in the design and implementation of stabilization policies and market
reforms. It would thus strengthen the institutional framework for managing a private market
economy. It would also provide a vehicle for coordinating technical assistance and, through that
assistance, accelerate the process of reform in Georgia. In addition, this program will lay the
foundation for further public administration and civil service reforms which will have to be
addressed over the medium term.
31.   The risks relate to the possible consequences of a renewal of armed conflict, political
instability, and of implementation difficulties. The government is still in the process of
consolidating its power and determining institutional responsibilities. To minimze potential
problems, the project has been kept small, focused on most important needs, and concentrated
on central institutions. Possible implementation delays are being minimized by reducing the
number of contracts as much as possible, initiating procurement activities very early in the project



- 10-
cycle, focusing on those core activities that can have a demonstrable impact in a short time,
defining the program as fully as possible prior to its initiation, and training the government staff
in the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. Since this is the World Bank Group's
first operation in Georgia, and considering that the governrment lacks experience in international
procurement procedures, about 30 staff-weeks of supervision efforts are planned for FY95.
32.   Recomumendatiorn.    I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of IDA and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 25, 1994



- 11 -
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
!NSTffUINAkDN               9E:
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US $ 'i)
Estimated Costs                                LForeign                   Total
Financial Sector Reform                            20        2.305         2,325
Economic Management                               140        5,520         5,660
Privatization and Enterprise Reform                40        2,230        2,270
TOTAL BASE COST                            200        10,055       10,255
Price and Physical Contingencies                        662           662
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         200        10,717       10,917
Finadnci Plan:
Government                                 200                        200
IDA                                                   10,117       10,117
Govermnent of the Netherlands                           600           600
Total fnancing Plan                        200        iO,717       10,917



- 12 -
Schedule B
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
INSTUTION BUILDING PRO.lECT
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                                  ICB       Other      N.B.F.W   Cost
1. Goods                                         2,000       1,300                3,300
1.1 Computers and other goods, equipment,    2,000      1,200b'                3,200
and supplies
1.2 Vouchers                                              100-                   100
2. ConsJltancies and other technical assistance             6,817         600    7,417
2.1 Expert assistance                                    6,242        600      6,842
2.2 Training                                               575                   575
3. Govermnent contribution                                                200       200
TOTAL                                            2,000       8,117        800    10,917
ai  Non-Bank financed (cofinanciers and govemment).
b/ Estmated to be International Shopping (US$1,000,000) / Local Shopping (US$100,000)fDirect
Co"itrCting (US$100,000).
i International Shopping.



- 13 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROrCT
IDA Disbursements
Category                            Amount         % of Expenditures to be Financed
(SDR'O00)
Consultants' services,                5,000        100% of expenditures
fellowships, and training
Computers, equipment, other           2,300        100% of foreign expenditures,
materials                                          100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 75% of expeaditures for other
items procured locally
Total                                 7,300
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
*  (US$'00)
FY 95         FY 96 FY 97    FY98
Annual                       2,500          3,400  2,600     1,617
Cumulative                   2,500         5,900  8,500    10,117



- 14 -
Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING PRO.ECT
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US $10.9 million equivalent)
Loan Timings
Signing and Effectiveness    July 1994
Closing                   Dec. 1997
Procurement (US$'000)
Project                 Project Year              Total      Remarks
Elements                                          Payment
1      2        3        4
1. Consultancies and Training
a. Financial      300    600        370    480     1,750     Bank/donor
Sector                                                       guidelines
b. Economic     1,400   1,200       850    526    3,976
Management
c. Privatization  500    600        400    290     1,790     Bank guidelines
2. Equipment /    700   1,000     1,000    500    3,200      Bank guidelines
Vouchers
3. Government      30     70         50     50       200
contribution
Totals          2,930  3,470      2,670  1,846   1,091,6



- 15 -
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
INSTITUMON BUILDING PRO_JECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                          20 months'
(b)    Prepared by:                                    Government/ Bank assistance
(c)    First preparation mission:                      September 1, 1992
(d)    Appraisal mission departed:                     February 25, 1993
(e)    Negotiations:                                   June 1, 1993
(f)    Project update and re-negotiations:             April 15, 1994
(g)    Scheduled Board date:                           June 16, 1994 (tentative)
(h)    Planned date of effectiveness:                  July 30, 1994
(i)    List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:                Not applicable
Project preparation was initiated in September 1992. The Project was originally
negotiated in June 1993 but was put on hold because of the eruption of civil strife in
Georgia soon thereafter.



- 16 -
Schedule D
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
Status of Bank GroupD perations in Geo ia
A. STATEMENT OF WORLD BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of May 25, 1994 lending to Georgia had not yet commenced.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of May 25,1994, Georgia is not a rnember of the IFC.



- 17 -
REPUBLIC OF GIORGIA
INSTITU ON BUILDING PROJECT
Technical Annex
A.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    The Institution Building activities supported through this project would help the Georgian
Government in three areas critical to its economic development: (i) financial sector reforms; (ii)
economic management and aid coordination; and (iii) privatization and enterprise reform. The
project's overall administration would be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) which is located in the State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER).
Implementation would be spread over a three-year period. The total project cost is US$10.9
million.
PART ONE: FINANCIAL REFORM
1. FINANCIAL SECTOR
(US$2,325,000 )
2.    Georgia, like many other FSU republics, follows the inherited Soviet institutions, laws,
policies, accounting standards, and banking practices, which need to be radically reformed to
make them suitable for a market economy. In addition to the National Bank of Georgia (NBG),
there are 5 specialized state banks and 202 private "commercial banks" in the country. The
banking system is highly concentrated, with the five state banks -- the Agricultural Bank, the
Bank for Industry and Construction, the Trade Bank, the Social Bank, and the Savings Bank -
controlling 85% of the credit. The Trade Bank has been converted into a joint stock bank but
with only 25 percent private ownership. Of the 202 "commercial banks" started since 1989,
about half have state enterprises as principal owners. The NBG continues to play a significant
role in directing and guaranteeing commercial credits, with refinancing credits from the NBG
constituting the bulk of lending by the banks. The NBG lacks staff and skills to provide even a
minimal banking supervision role: there are only 3 staff in the supervision department to
supervise the whole banking sector. The financial institutions in Georgia are keen to assume new
roles and functions in the market economy but lack experience in modern banking practices. New
financial laws, infrastructure, accounting standards, and operating practices are needed to
facilitate the decentralization of financial decision making and the introduction of a commercial
banking system.
3.    The proposed technical assistance program will support the reforms in key financial
institutions and operations, and will strengthen policy-making capacity in the state banking sector.
IDA's financial sector support, in coordination with the IMF and other bilateral donors, will
focus on identifying current sectoral constraints and developing restructuring strategies for the
sector. Further financial sector technical assistance would be considered on the basis of these
constraints and restructuring strategies.
4.    Accounting and Auditing. The international community has already gained substantial
experience in the areas of accounting reform from other parts of the FSU. These experiences are
directly relevant to the situation in Georgia. The introduction of new, modern accounting and



- 18 -
auditing systems will provide a more meaningful assessment of the financial condition of the
Georgian banks and will make the supervision and regulation of the banks more effective.
Foreign experts will be placed in the NBG to coordinate the work of adapting the new accounting
standards, and to assist in revising the appropriate legislation and in developing new certification
standards and training programs. High priority will be given to the rapid adoption by all
financial institutions of the Broadly Adapted Financial Statements (BAFS) and the accompanying
new Chart of Accounts. IDA activities in this area will be coordinated with the European Union
(EU) and the IMF.
5.    Bankine Supervision. There are several areas of immediate concern for the new banking
supervision department - lax licensing standards, rapid proliferation of small banks owned by
state enterprises that are lending to their owners, excessive loan concentration, inadequate
prudential regulations, and weak monitoring of the operations of the banks -- as a result of which
the financial system in Georgia has become very unstable. The Central Bank of the Netherlands
(CBN) has agreed to provide technical assistance on a grant basis to strengthen the NBG's
supervision and regulatory capabilities. Areas that will need strengthening will include: (i)
licensing and exit policies and procedures; (ii) prudential regulations and standards on lending
exposure, capital adequacy, loan classification and provisioning, liquidity requirements; (iii) on-
site examination and auditing; and (iv) off-site surveillance and reporting requirements for the
commercial banks.
6..   Legal Framework. The development of a legal framework necessary for a commercial
and competitive financial system was identified as a high priority for technical assistance under
this project. Expert assistance will be provided to establish a legal and regulatory environment,
and a skills base that would allow the banks to operate within a "safety and soundness"
framework. The CBN will provide the technical assistance on a grant basis to review the current
legislative framework and assist the government in developing new prudential regulations.
7.    Computerization Planning and Equipment. Funds from this project will also be provided
to upgrade equipment for day-to-day operations in key areas of the NBG, including information
management and processing, bookkeeping and accounting, and security systems. Automation and
computerization planning expertise will be provided to assist the NBG in designing and
implementing efficient automated and computerized systems for bank supervision, accounting,
payment clearance and transfers, general central banking operations, and to ensure that the
necessary hardware and software applications are procured, installed, tested, and properly
maintained.
8.    Diagnostic Studies. The project will finance diagnostic studies of the five state-owned
Banks to develop a comprehensive understanding of the problems besetting these banks. The
studies will provide a basis for prioritizing and developing strategies for further institutional
strengthening and restructuring of the financial sector.
9.    Payment System. The current payment system in Georgia is inefficient and outmoded,
resulting in revenue losses because of delays in payment clearances, transfers, and settlements.
Expert assistance will be provided to determine the current institutional constraints of the payment
system, including the regulatory, operational, and technical constraints. The review will identify
current problems and will develop alternative solutions that can be implemented in the current
economic and political environment..
I



- 19 -
10.   Policy Adviser. The project will support a senior policy advisor to the President of the
NBG to assist him in the areas of monetary policy, Banking supervision and regulation, and
general central banking operations. IMF has agreed to coordinate this support.
PART TWO; ECONOM1C MANAGEMENT
11. ECONOMIC POLICY FORMULATION/AID COORDINATION
(US$5,660,000)
11.   The govermnent's capacity for economic policy analysis is presently very limited which
is a major constraint to the design of appropriate economic reform policies and programs. The
reasons for this situation include: (i) tne centralization of economic decision-making under the
Soviet Union; and (ii) the inappropriate training and experience of the government staff in the
areas of economy and finance. Building an effective capability for economic policy analysis
represents a considerable challenge to the government but will be essential if the economic reform
program is to remain on track.
12.   The collapse of the Georgian economy since the breakup of the Soviet Union and the need
for wide-ranging structural reforms will require substantial inflows of external assistance to
support the transition to a market economy. Assistance is already being provided by the EU, the
United States, Turkey, and Germany. Other multilateral organizations and bilateral agencies can
be expected to commence assistance operations in the near future. To effectively utilize these aid
resources and to mobilize further assistance from the international community, the government
needs to establish a strong and clearly defined aid coordination mechanism in the country.
13.   A number of government ministries and agencies are currently responsible for various
aspects of economic policy formulation and aid coordination. The most important of these are:
(i) the Ministries of Finance, which has departments responsible for macro and sectoral
policy/program development and international relations; (ii) the State Committee for Foreign
Economic Relations (SCFER) which, when created in April 1992, assumed responsibility for aid
coordination but is now focusin, primarily on trade and foreign investment facilitation while
retaining responsibility for coordination of the German aid; (iii) the EU Technical Assistance
Coordination Unit, which is under the direction of a deputy minister in the SCFER but is
operationally independent; and (iv) a Humanitarian Aid Coordination Unit operating out of the
Ministry of Health and nominally responsible to the Cabinet of Ministers. There is a need for
considerable rationalization of these structures.
14.   The project will finance international consultants, training, and equipment to assist tna
government in the following areas.
Reform  and Restructurine of the Economic Management Agencies.  Short-term
consultancy assistance will bt. provided under the program (tour person-months) to assist
the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (responsible for economic reforms) in planning
the reform and restructuring of its economic management agencies. The exercise will
focus primarily on the 'core" Ministries of Finance and the Economy but will also
consider arrangements for economic and financial management functions at the line
ministry level. The study will propose a new organizational structure, prepare detailed
departmental 'mandates," and identify staffing requirements and suggest how these can



most appropriately be met. The British KnowHow llrnd has agreed to finance a short-
term expert for initial assessment of needs in this area.
Macro and Sectoral Policy Analysis. The establishment oi an economic advisory function
to the Cabinet of Ministers will requiro two) ltontg-term econonmic advisers. First, an
experienced general sector economist will be funded by the (iovernment of the
Netherlands on a grant basis for a period of one to two vears to assist the Office of the
Deputy Prime Minister (responsible for Economic Reforms) in docignirig and developing
the sectoral work program of the government, includiitg developing sector economic
analysis capabilities in the line ministries. Second, a senior level macroeconomist funded
by USAID (originally envisaged under the framework of this project) has been in place
for the last several months in this office. T'hese consultants will also assist the
government with tle preparation of its public sector investment program. In addition,
a group of three senior level policy advisers (in aid management, macroeconomics, and
project preparation) have been put in place by the EU in the Office of the Head of the
State.
Statistics on Living Standards. Short-term consultants will be engaged to assist the
Committee for Social and Economic Information (CSEI) in izaproving the analysis of
existing household survey data and in redesigning the family bulget survey. The aim of
this assistance would be to adapt or replace the current syst_,m to give the government
a reliable source of information on income distribution and the incidence of poverty. The
project will finance experts and equipment to assist the government staff design and
conduct a household survey in the city of Tnilisi on a pilot basis, which can later be
extended to other areas through local resources. The survey would strengthen the CSEI's
skills in this ar. a and would provide reliable household data that would also feed into the
development ot the benefit-targeting criteria and other social sector assistance work
presently under way with EU assistance. In addition, the project will finance a review
of the current national accounts system and introduce the government to the UN System
of National Accounts (SNA).
Tax Administration. The State Tax Inspectorate (STI) is not equipped to work with a
private, market economy. In 1993, the government's tax collection was only 3 percent
of the total GDP. Technical assistance is needed to help the government design the tax
modernization program, the computerization of the tax offices, software development,
and the training of the State Tax Inspectorate (STI) staff. The project is expected to be
completed in two phases: a pilot project for the modernization and computerization of the
central STI and the Tbilisi City Inspectorate- and extension of the computerization and
training to the rest of C-eorgia. The IMF has agreed to provide consulting services to
streamline the tax administration system, develop a computerization plan, and oversee the
implementation of the modernization in the first phase, and is expected to continue its
support to the second phase as well. The IDA project will finance computing equipment
for the first phase. Further modernization activities may be planned on the basis of the
outcome of this pilot project.
Treasury. The government has decided to establish a modern Treasury which will provide
better expenditure management and will also consolidate currently idle government
balances with the banks into a single Treasury account with the NBG. The Ministry of
Finance has been working with the IMF on the design of the treasury system. The
project is expected to be carried out in two phases: in the first phase, a central treasury



- 21 -
function will be established in the Ministry of Finance and a regional branch in the city
of Tbilisi; in the second phase, regional treasuries will be established throughout Georgia.
The IMF will provide consulting services to oversee the initial work. The IDA project
will finance computers for the establishment of the central Treasury office and the
regional office in the city of Tbilisi.
Debt Management. The Republic of Georgia does not have many external debts at this
time, but with the present economic situation, this could change rapidly. In order to
monitor all external debts, a modern debt management system should be set up in the
Ministry of Finance. While a unit has been created in the Ministry to monitor external
debt, its staff lacks the tools and skills needed to work efficientiy. The proposed project
will finance short-term advisers and equipment to assist this unit in strengthening its debt
management capacity.  This component will be executed with the assistance of
UNCTAD. The UNCTAP will provide a computerized system and hands-on training
to the Ministry staff in operating a modern debt management system.
Economic Analysis. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy have
requested assistance in cnnducting economic analyses of macroeconomic data and in
improving their skills in economic projections. The project will minance short-term
experts and equipment to review current data collection and analysis practices, identify
problems with the existing data and develop recommendations on analytical tools to be
used, help the government staff in understanding modern data analysis and projection
methodologies, and help set up a computer system to develop and maintain economic
models.
Customs Administration. The technical assistance to be supported under this project is
directed to ensuring introduction of trade and customs procedures compatible with the
requirements of a market economy and in conformity with international practices and
norms. It is also to provide early assistance in laying a sound foundation for a modem
Customs Administration that would efficiently collect revenues, trade statistics, and
contribute to trade facilitation and promotion. The EU's program of assistance will
complement the IDA's assistance by ensuring general training for a selected number of
staff, providing advisers in modernization of customs laws and regulations, and building
up efficient investigation and enforcement units. The proposed project will support: (i)
TradelCustoms Management. A senior expert will work with the Director General of
Customs on all matters related to establishing a modern Customs Department; (ii)
Modernization of Customs Laws and Regulations. A senior customs legislation consultant
will examine and make recommendations for the improvement and modernization of
customs policy and the tariff law; (iii) Training in Customs Operations and
Computerization. The IDA project will support local seminars and workshops, with
assistance from UNCTAD and the EU, on such topics as: customs classification and
valuation; customs clearance procedures for the trading community; EDP (Electronic
Data Processing); and computer training - especially on UNCTAD's ASYCUDA
(Automated System for Customs management and Data); (iv) Customs Computerization.
Adoption and implementation of a Customs Software Package developed by UNCTAD
will be supported under the project. This will include computers for the Customs HQ
and one pilot clearance office (Tbilisi airport), together with support equipment, and
translation of the ASYCUDA system and its manuals and documents. The government
has requested that this component be carried out by the UNCTAD.



- 22 -
-     Aid Coordination. On the basis of strengths of the country, the government expects the
international community to show substantial interest in assisting Georgia in its economic
development. In order to mobilize and effectively utilize these external aid resources,
the government wishes to strengthen its capacity for external aid coordination. An Aid
Management Commission - chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister and comprising Minister
of Finance, Chairman for SCFER, the President of the NBG, the President of EXIM
Bank, and the Head of Finance, Credit and Taxation Policy Department of the Cabinet
of Ministers -- has been created to make policy level decisions on the external aid
requirements and proposals. As has been stated abuve, this commission will be assisted
by a Secretariat (AMU) that has been set up in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
The AMU will assist, train, and coordinate various govermment agencies in preparing
projects for external aid and will ensure compliance with reporting and other
requirements of the donor agencies. The proposed IDA project will finance a long-term
expert and office equipment to assist this unit in its aid management function.
-     Procurement Adviser. The government has agreed to set up a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) in the SCFER to manage procurement and disbursement under the proposed
project. Since the government has no experience with World Bank procurement
procedures, an experienced procurement consulting finn will be retained to assist and
train the PIU staff in international procurement procedures.
PART THRE: PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRMAL ENTERPRISE REFORM
(US$2,270,000)
15.   Privatization represents a substantial aspect of the goNernment's strategy toward moving
to a market-based economy. The first steps toward the implementation of privatization were
initiated in August 1991 when the government began to adopt the relevant laws and decrees. The
legislation enacted over the past two years includes an enterprise privatization law, an
entrepreneurship law, a law on bankruptcy, and a housing privatization law. Decrees and
regulations effected in the past two years include those on auctions and competitive sales;
valuation of assets for privatization; and commercialization and transformation of enterprises into
joint stock companies.
16.   The Ministry of State Property Management (SPM) is responsible for overseeing and
managing state-owned property in Georgia and for determining privatization strategies and
recommending their adoption by government. The SPM is also responsible for designing and
implementing the mass privatization programs, participating with the overseeing ministries in the
process of privatizing large-scale enterprises, reviewing enterprise privatization plans, and
assisting the local government structures to carry out small-scale enterprise privatization.
17.   About 1,365 enterprises/assets, including large, medium, and small enterprises, were
identified in August 1992 for privatization by the SPM and the local authorities. Beyond setting
out an initial strategy for privatization during 1992 and 1993, the SPM did not achieve its
privatization goals over the period. However, in the past few months the implementation of
auctions and other sales of assets has begun. The SPM is following a multi-track approach to
privatization, which will cover small-scale enterprises, large individual enterprises, and mass
privatization through a voucher scheme. Significant policy decisions are still pending with regard
to the distribution, usage, and trading regulations of the vouchers. Privatization of small-scale
enterprises through auction started in March 1993. Since that time a number of other auctions
and competitive sales have been undertaken in Tbilisi and elsewhere in the country. As of



- 23 -
February 1994, about 900 small-scale objects, including gasoline stations, trading enterprises,
stock breeding farms, and a large number of trucks, buses, and other vehicles have been
privatized. In addition, two older, small hydropower stations have been sold to private buyers.
The objective of this component of the Project is to provide critical elements and a framework
of technical assistance for the further design and accelerate implementation of the privatization
program for medium-scale and large-scale enterprises (defined by the govermment as enterprises
with a net book value above Rbl 30 million as of January 1993).
18.    Support to the Ministry of State Property Management. ThIs component will include a
comprehensive training program intended to build the local capacity to carry out privatization and
to undertake enterprise diagnostics. Support will also be provided in the form of computers,
printers, copiers, and other equipment, to both the Ministry of Privatization and the Ministry of
Industry. Technical assistance will be provided in the following areas.
-      Legal Adviser. An essential aspect of the development of privatization strategy is the
establishment of an appropriate legal basis. As has been noted above, the government
has already passed and adopted a number of basic laws and regulations. Long-term legal
experts will assist the SPM in reviewing the existing privatizat;on and anti-monopoly laws
and drafting others.
Voucher Scheme for Mass Privatization Program. The project will finance short-term
consultants to assist the SPM in designing and implementing a mass privatization
program. This would include assistance with designing a voucher scheme, printing
vouchers, and designing the distribution and exchange mechanism for the vouchers. The
consultants would prepare a detailed overall strategic design, a critical path analysis, and
a detailed work plan for implementing a mass privatization program.
-      Public Information Campaign.  To build public understanding of and support for
privatization and to monitor the public perception of the reforms, the govermnent has
decided to develop a privatization communication strategy. The assistance under this
component will provide short-term consultants to (i) conduct pre-campaign research on
existing attitudes to the privatization program and prepare a media monitoring system;
(ii) develop a marketing campaign; and (c) disseminate the key messages through press
conferences, media briefings, press releases, and media presentations.
-      Pilot Privatization of Selected Large Enterprises. The project will provide technical
assistance to the SPM staff in the development of a privatization methodology and
process through the pilot privatization of selected large enterprises. The objectives of this
pilot project would be to (i) assist the SPM in designing a privatization methodology that
could be replicated across the country; (ii) train the SPM staff and the employees of the
enterprises in the technical aspects of preparing privatization plans, information
memoranda, valuation methodologies, and business plans; and (iii) provide important
lessons for broader privatization of large enterprises. The consultants will work closely
with the SPM and the Ministry of Industry. The following principles would be followed
in the pilot privatization: (i) the process should be transparent, competitive, and open to
outsiders; and (ii) privatization of enterprises with a monopoly position would not be
carried out before their demonopolization. The experts would assist the SPM in the
following areas: (i) selection of enterprises to be included in the pilot privatization; (ii)
development of privatization plans and post-privatization business plans; (iii)



- 24 -
implementation of recommended sales strategies and negotiating transactions; and (iv)
dissemination of the lessons learned.
-     Policy Support to the SPM. The project will finance one short-term  senior-level
privatization adviser who will assist tha SPM on the policy issues related to implementing
the current privatization program, identifying impediments to its progress, and
recommending modifications to the program. This adviser will work closely with the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister on the policy level ihsues,
19.   Environmental Aspects cf Privatization. Because the lack of clear rules on environmental
liability can be a serious obstacle to privatization, especially where foreign investors are
concerned, the govermnent has indicated its plan to establish flexible environmental liability
procedures to be used in privatization of both large enterprises and small hydro plants, which the
government also hopes to privatize, taking into account the evolving experience in Central and
Eastern Europe. Short term consultants would be provided to assist the government in developing
its procedures, and determining how enviromnental liability should be allocated during the
privatization process. In addition, funds would be provided to conduct pilot enviromnental audits
of selected enterprises where such audits would be useful in illustrating potential environmental
liabilities.
B.    PROJECT ADMINSTRAIION AND                           ON
20.   For this first credit to Georgia, the government has determined that administration will
be handled by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which will be located in the SCFER. The
project will finance the services of an experienced procurement consulting firm for about one year
as well as equipment to help the government set up the unit. The external experts will assist the
head of the PIU in conducting procurement and disbursement functions under the project.
Procurement and disbursement training of the government staff started in 1993 (government staff
attended disbursement and procurement seminars sponsored by the World Bank during April
1993) and wili be followed up with on-the-job training by the external advisor and through
supervision missions.
21.   The administrative burden placed on the government staff has been minimized to the
extent possible by focusing on the most urgent needs of the country and packaging the operation
into as few contracts as possible. The customs administration strengthening component will be
executed under directed-source arrangements with UNCTAD. This will reduce the administrative
burden on the government as well as on the Bank staff.
22.   The Government of Georgia will contribute directly to the program through the provision
of a small amount of in-kind and local financing. This represents the extent of the capacity of
the Georgian government to assist in the project financing. Parallel financing will be provided
by the Government of the Netherlands for the position of a sector economist and assistance with
the banking supervision and legal framework for the financial sector. The British KnowHow
Fund has agreed to finance a short-term expert for assessing the need for restructuring the
government's economic management agencies. In addition, the IMF will provide a policy adviser
to the President of the National Bank and technical assistance for tax administration and
establishment of the treasury system; USAID is providing financing for a macroeconomic adviser
to the Cabinet of Ministers; the EU is funding reforms in the social sector and, along with the
UNDP, is interested in financing technical assistance and equipment for the initial setting up of
the AMU.



- 25 -
23.   In view of the concerns about government's fundamental capacity to absorb the assistance
proposed, the project proposes, in areas of critical need but where no alternatives exist, a small
number of long-term experts to fill specific skill shortages. This assistance would last for a
limited period and would include the strengthening of institutional capacities as a primary
objective. In addition, to assist the government in preparing projects in a way that would attract
financing from the international community, a Project Preparation Fund (PPF) was provided to
assist in the preparation of a project (telecommunications). The World Bank missions have
reviewed and determined that the existing infrastructures in the country are adequate to host the
long-term experts funded under this project. Similarly, for assistance requirements in other areas,
the individual and institutional structures are on balance sufficient to make use of short-term
consultancies. Particular attention will be paid to this issue du ing supervision.
24.   At this juncture it is not possible to identify all of the essential assistance requirements
of the country, and it is likely that new needs will arise during the implementation period of this
operation which should be supported by this credit.  To provide flexibility in project
implementation, the government has agreed with the Bank that the project funds will be
reallocated if such new needs arise. Decisions on reallocation would take place during supervision
of the project.
C.    PROJECT COST. FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS. ANI) REPORTING AND
ALUDITDIG
25.   Proiect Cost. The total project cost is estimated at US$10.9 million equivalent. Details
of the cost estimates have been included in Schedule A. All local costs have been converted to
U.S. dollars at an exchange rate of 1,200,000 coupons per dollar. Costs under the credit have
been subjected to contingencies of seven percent to cover physical and price contingencies. The
estimates for stuidies, consultancy, assignments, and training are based on typical current costs
for such assignments. There would be a substantial involvement of internationally recruited
consultants in all the project components. The project would provide for computers and other
equipment as well.
26.   Financing. A summary of the project financing plan is shown in Schedule A and in more
detail in Attachment 2. The foreign exchange cost requirements are estimated at US$10.9
million. The local currency requirements (equivalent of US$0.2 million) would be met by the
borrower from its own resources. The IDA credit would finance about 94 percent of the foreign
exchange cost, the balance to be provided by the Government of the Netherlands. The support
provided by the IMF, USAID, and UNDP is in the form of technical assistance and has not been
monetized.
27.   Disbursements. Disbursements would be administered by the project implementation unit.
The proceeds of the IDA credit would finance 100 percent of consultants' services and training;
100 percent of foreign expenditures for computers, equipment, and other goods and materials;
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for computers, equipment, and other goods and
materials manufactured locally; and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures against
contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditures detailing the individual transactions. The documentation to support
these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the
audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would



- 26 -
be made available for review by the auditors (see section below on "Reporting and Auditing")
and IDA upon request.
28.   The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed credit is shown in Schedule B.
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997 and the Closing Date would be
December 31, 1997. Retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 would be provided to cover
expenditures, primarily for the early appointments of advisers, for equipment procured through
local shopping, and for training, incurred after May 1, 1994.
29.   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a
special account in U.S. dollars in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation of this account would
ba US$500,000 equivalent, representing about two months of average expenditures under the
credit. At the request of the Borrower and, based on project needs, IDA would make an initial
deposit or deposits into the special account, up to the amount of the authorized allocation.
Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly, or when one-
third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishment allocations would follow the same procedure as described in the
above section on "Disbursements." In addition, monthly bank statements of the special account
which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests.
30.   Renorting and Auditing. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the special
accot ait, all project accounts, and statements of expenditure would be audited at the end of each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Such audits would be carried out in
accordance with international standards undertaken by auditors qualified for this task. Audit
reports for the preceding calendar year would be made available to IDA no later than by the end
of June of each year. The project will finance the expenses for conducting the audit.
31.   To enable the PIU to monitor the progress of project implementation, it was agreed
during negotiations that the PIU would furnish IDA with a series of reports on a regular basis.
These reports will include: (i) quarterly progress reports on implementation in a format and
degree of detail acceptable to IDA; (ii) audited financial statements within six months after the
close of each Georgian fiscal year; and (iii) records, financial statements, other progress reports,
or other types of information that IDA may request from time to time. On the basis of
information provided by the various beneficiary agencies, the PIU will prepare its contribution
to the Project Completion Report within six months of the Closing Date, covering all related
activities during project implementation.
D.  PROCUREMENT
32.   Both the public and the private sectors in Georgia have very little experience with the
types of procurement used in the market economies and are not familiar with the Bank's
procurement and disbursement procedures. Procurement experts would be provided under the
credit to help the PIU and the project agencies handle procurement and disbursement under the
project. Also, the PIU staff would be given the opportunity to participate in World Bank
procurement seminars and to attend others, as appropriate.
33.   Procurement of goods, materials, and equipment will be in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992), and the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods
will be used. Procurement of consultants' services will be in accordance with the Bank's



- 27 -
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultant
Services will be used. A summary list of the goods, materials, and services to be procured under
the Project, their costs, and the methods of procurement is given in Table 1, below.
34.   Goods and Euipme_nt. Goods, materials, and equipment to be procured under the project
will consist of computers, peripherals, software, and office equipment. Contracts with a contract
value of US$300,000 or greater would be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods and Computers, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
project. It is expected that there will be two separate ICBs -- to accommodate needs and
implementation schedule of the beneficiary agencies -- to a total estimated value of about US$2.0
million.
35.   The remaining contracts for equipment, goods, and materials to cost more than
US$20,000 but less than US$300,000 would be procured through international shopping (IS), to
a total aggregate of US$1.0 million, requiring price quotations from a minimum of three vendors
from three different countries; contracts valued at less than US$20,000 up to a total aggregate
cost of US$100,000 will be procured through local shopping (LS) on the basis of at least 3
quotations from qualified local suppliers. Equipment that is of proprietary nature or requires
standardization with existing equipment will be procured through direct contracting, up to a total
value of US$100,000. In addition, the government has requested $100,000 to support the
printing of vouchers, which will be procured on the basis of IS.
36.   Consultant Services. All consulting contracts for technical assistance, training, and
studies to be financed from the proceeds of the credit would be procured by the goverunent from
among individual consultants or consulting firms in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). All consulting contracts will be based on the Bank's
Standard Form of Contract for Consulting Services. Consulting firms will be procured on the
basis of competitive selection from a list of three to six firms, and individual consultants will be
hired on the basis of competitive selection from at least three CVs. UNCTAD will be retained
to provide support for the customs administration and for the debt management in accordance
with the procedures acceptable to the Bank. Specific details of various consultancy assignments
appear in Table 2. Use of local consultants will be limited given the scarcity in Georgia of the
requisite experience and background.



28 -
Table 1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$10.9 million equivalent total financing)
($ '000)
Procurement Method               Total
Project Element                              ICB      Other    N.B.F.`   Cost
1. Goods                                     2,000      1,300               3,300
1.1 Computers and other goods, equipment and  2.000  1,200b'             3,200
supplies
1.2 Vouchers                                          I00V                 100
2. Consultancies and other technical assistance         6.817        600    7,417
2.1 Expert assistance                               6,242         600    6,842
2.2 Training                                           575                 575
3. Government contribution                                           200      200
TOTAL                                        2,000     10,117        800   10,917
a/ Non-Bank financed (cofinanciers & government).
b/ Estimated to be Intemnational Shopping (US$1,000,000)/Local Shopping (US$100,000) 1 Direct
contracting (US$100,000)
ci International shopping
37.   IDA Review. Due to the centralization of procurement in the FSU, the knowledge of the
project implementation agencies regarding international commercial practices and the World
Bank's procurement procedures is almost nonexistent. Therefore, all procurement activities under
the project will be coordinated by the PIU, which will be assisted by an external procurement
consulting firm. To ensure compliance with the World Bank procurement guidelines, all ICBs,
the first two contracts under international shopping, and all direct contracts will be subject to
prior IDA review. The terms of reference for all consultant assignments, and all contracts for
consultant firms valued at greater than US$100,000 and for individuals valued at greater than
US$50,000, including the contracts with UNCTAD (customs and debt management), would be
subject to IDA's prior review and approval. These limits would result in the prior review of over
95 percent of total procurement. All other contracts will be subject to selective ex-post review
by IDA.
38.    Procurement Administration. Since this is the first World Bank Group project in the
country, PIU staff members would be given training in procurement through in-country training,
the World Bank seminars, and through on-the-job training. The PIU would be staffed with a
management team competent to assist with routine procurement administration activities. IDA
missions would be called upon to assist in reviewing procurement documentation as part of
regular supervision activities.



- 29 -
39. Country Procurement Assessment Report. A Country Procurement Assessment has not
yet been completed. However, procurement proposed under the project would follow the World
Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
40.   Procurement Information. Statistics regarding procurement administr,t 'on would be
collected and recorded and would comprise prompt reporting of contract, status, and award
information by the Borrower, and quarterly reports to IDA by the Borrower. These reports
would indicate (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including
best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingency; (ii) revised timing of
procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
41.   Conditionality: The government has met all the conditions for Board presentation.



Table 2
Cost Estinates by Major Contract and
Schedule of Critical Procurement Steps Under The IDA Credit
Cr,ta Procur .Ment S=eps
Cornponent                        Contract    Base Cost           Procurement Method             Preparation      Issuance       Signing
Type                                                         of Bidding     of Invitations      of
_DocunmentslLOl   to Bid I LO!    Contracr
inancial Sector Infrastructure                                           9
Contract I                                       Consultants                Short list of 316 firns. Selection     May 1 1994      Jun 1, 1994    Jul 1, 1994
Accounting & Auditing                                                   375 based on technical merit
Contract 2
Diagrnst study of five banks                                            350                                         May 1, 1994     Jun 1. 1994    Jul 1, 994
Contract 3
Payment Systems                                                         200                                         Jun1, 1994      Jun 11994      Jul1, 1994
Economic Managenent                                                     MN
Contract 4                                       Consultants
Economic Restructuring of central government                             100      Individual based on 3 CVs         Jun 1, 1994     Jun 1 1994     Jul 1, 1994
Contract 6
Aid Management Advisor                                                   300 Short list of 316 firns. Selection      Ju 1i1 1994    Aug I. 1994    Sep1, 1994
Contract 6                                       Consultants                based on technical merit
Redesign of Family Income Survey                                        275                                         Jul , 1994     Aug 1 1994    Sep 1, 1994
Contract r
Review and mnodemize national accounts                                   100                                        Jul 1, 1994     Aug 1 1994    Sep 11994
Contract 8
Procurement Advlsor                                                     250                                         May ,1994       Jun 1, 1994    Jul1, 1994
Contract 9
Computer Expert                                                         300                   _                     Junl,1994       Jul 1 1994     Augl,1994
Contract 10
Debt Management Expert                                                   100     Direct contract with UNCTAD        Jun 1,1994      Jul 1, 1994   Aug 1 1994
Contract 11
Macroeconomic analysis                                                   I _  100  Individual based on 3 CVs        Jun 1,1994      Jul 1, 1994 _  Aug 1, 1994
* Project has provision for retroactive financing



Table 2
Cost Estimates by Major Contract and
Schedule of Critical Procurement Steps Under The IDA Credit
irivatization  _
Contract 12                                       Consultants          t,75
Senior porlcy advisor                                                    50       Individual based on 3 CVs         Jun 1, 1994      Jul 1, 1994   Aug 1, 1994
Contract 13
Mass Privatization Experts                                               650 Short list of 3J6 finms. Selection      Jur 1, 1994     Jul 1, 1994   Aug 1, 1994
Contract 14                                                                  based on technical tmerit
Prirning of Vouchers                              Goods                  100 Intemational Shopping                   May 1, 1994     Jun 1, 1994    Jul 1 1994
Contract 15
Design and niMate pubfic campaign                                        150 Short list of 316 fiffns. Selection     Aug 1, 1994     Oct 1, 1994    Nov 1, 1994
Contract 16                                                                  based on technical merit
Legal Advisor                                                            300                                         Jun 1, 1994      Jul 1, 1994   Avg 1, 1994
Contract 17
Pilot pratztizalion                                                      500                                         Aug 1, 1994     Oct 1, 1994    Nov 1, 1994
ustorns Administration & Trade Facilitation
Contract 18                                       Consultants          14Sj Contract with UNCTAD
Contact with UNCTAD                                                     1,455 on sole source basis                   Jun 1, 1994     Jul 1, 1994    Aug 1, 1994
EquiitmnenPtw
Contract 19                                       Computers            1.000 International Competitive Bidding       Aug 1 1994      Oct 1, 1994    Jan 20, 1995
Contract 20                                       Cornputers           ll)QQ International Competitive Bidding       Jan 1, 1995     Feb 1, 1995    Apr 30,1995
Contract 21                                       Software'              1QQ Direct Contracting                      Aug 1,1994      Sep 1, I 994    Nov 1, 1994
Contract 22                                       tax/copier"           1QQ Local Shopping                           Aug 1, 1994     Sep 1, 1994    Oct 1, 1994
Contract 23                                       fax/copier*            2iQ International Shopping                  Jan 1, 1995    Feb 15, 1995    tpr 15, 1995
Contract 24                                       Office Equip2          m  nterational Shopping                     Aug 1, 1994     Sep 1, 19594    Dec 15, 1994
Contract 25                                       Office Equip2          24Q Intemational Shopping                   Jan 1, 1995     Feb 1, 1995    Apr 30, 1995
Contract 26                                        mce Equip'            2=  ntematfonal Shopping                   Jun 15, 1995     Jul 30,1995    Oct 1,1995
Depending on the component or subcomponent, it may include some or all the following items: (I) computers, printers, LAN hardware, software, diskettes, paper, etc,
instllaton and after-sale service, (ii) fax machines, photocopiers, paper etc, and service, (ii) UPS, generators etc and (iv) vehicles. To the eAtent possible,
computer items wIll be packaged in only one contract, as will other items.
Equipment, Including Installation and after-sale service.



ATTACHMENT 1: SU               Y OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
us $
Component                 Total Requirements      IDA credit          Grants        Local Contribution*
(US$ eqivalent)
1. Financial Sector Reform                      2,325,000       2,005,000          300,000               20,000
2. Economic Management                          5,660,000       5,220,000          300,000              140,000
3. Privatization & Enterprise Reform            2,270,000       2,230,000                                40,000
Base Cost                                       10,255,000      9,455,000          600,000              200,000|
Contingencies                                     661,850        661,850
Total Project Cost    Con9t6rb0 o                              1w116b850 6ic,0el                   . costs..
*Local Contribution will be in kind -such as office space, furniture, logistics, and local skaif costs.



ATTACHMENT 1: Summary of Project Components
IMain Govermment Objective      Projed Component         Responsible       Expeced         Tal Cost  |          Out of Which        r[ming|
Activi              Agency        Resulls/lmpact        US$      j                             L
1. FINANCIAL SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Assi the government to   |  Experts to assist         Naional Bank   Greater capacity         375,000          375,000               Aug 94-
establih the infrstuctre       iinpiementation of        of Georgia     in goverrment to                                                Oct 95
needed for finanwial sector    intenational standards    (NBC).          assist banks and
reform and to deal with         accounting and auditing                  enterprises to
Operational problems in the short  standards for the banking             better report the
run that must be overcome to   sector and entrprises.                    inancial position.
stabilize the financial sector.
Training and expert      NBG             Capacity building       280,000          280,000               Aug 94-
assistance for                           in government.                                                 Aug 95
computerization planning
Equipment                PIU                                     250,000          250,000               Aug 94-
___________ _______________            _____________                                                                   Aug  95
Experts to assist with   NBG             Enhanced                300,000                      300,000   Aug 94-
baniing supervision and                  capacity at NBG                                                Mar 95
legal framework                          for banking
wspervision and
prudential
regulation, and a
rationalized legal
framework.



ATTACHMENT I: Summary of Project Components
Malta Government Objective       Project Component       Responsible       Expected         Total Cost          Out of Which           runfig
__________________.                      Activity            Agency    jResults/Impact           US$SIDA                      Gra       ___
Experts to conduct       PIU             Comprehensive           350,000          350,000               Aug 94
state-owned banks                        status of e ste
owned banks and
plans for furither
assistance.
Equipment for 5 state-   PIU                                     250,000          250,000
owned banks
Experts to review the    NBG             Comprehensive           200,000          200,000.)             Aug 94
status of payment systems                report on the                                                  -Jan 95
and recommend actions                    constraints of the
for modernization                        existing paymrent
mechanism,
which will form a                                                                 4 a
basis for further
reform.
Policy advisor to assist  NBG            Enhance the             300,000          300.000               Aug 94-
the NBG in monetary                      capacity of the                                                Aug 95
polcy and operational                    NBG in the
issues.                                  regulaion of
monetary policy
and operations
which will be the
basis for
development.
Suttal Fianc  Sector        .      _    .     _.                                               2,305,00         2,005,000     300,000



ATTACHMENT 1: Summary of Project Components
Main Government Objective       Project Component       Responsible  I     Expetd          Total Cost           Out of Which           riming
Activity            Agency        Resultsllmpact        US$             JDA       r Grants
11. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
l. Economic policy formulation    Experts on reform of   Cabinet of      Reformn and better      100.000          100,000 I             Aug 94
cental economic          Ministers:      coordination of                                                - Dee 94
management agencies      Deputy PM's   central economic
office         agencies
Expert to provide        Deputy PM's   Improved capacity         300.000                      30(AOOO   Aug 94
economic advice and on-   Office         for economie                                                   - AuX
the-job training                         policy analysis                                                95
within
Government
2. Eeonomic Management and      Experts to assist in the  Cabinet of     Set-up and initial      300,000          300,001               1une 4
Aid Coordination                establishment of aid     MinistersJSCF   training of an                                                 - Dec 45
management secretariat   ER              effective aid
management unit
Assistance for project   Ministry of     Internationally         450,000          450,Q0O                I993-
preparation for foreign  Telecommunic  acceptable project                                                1994
financing                ations          preparation
Equipment for Cabinet of   PIU                                   245,000          245,000
Ministers (AMU)ISCFERI
ParliamentlMinisty of
i____________________________   Econom y         ,       .                                 _ ,



ATTACHMENT 1: SumMary of Project Con,portnts
Maiw Government Objective         "ea Component          Respo teible      Expected         Total Cost          Out of Which            Timing
Activity             Agency       Results/Impact        US$SIDA Irat s
3. Statistics                   Experts to review and    Comniittee for   Adoption of             100,000         I00.O                Aug- -
modernize National       Socio-          improvesl systm                                                - Dec94
Accounts                 Economic        for preparing
Information    National Accounts
(CSEI)
Technical assistance for    CSEI         Improved                275,000          275.Q0C                Aug gV
preparation of improved                  information on                                                  - Aug
household income and                     socio-economic                                                 95
expenditure survcy                      impact of
transition                                     _
Equipment                PIU                                     250,000          250 'il})
Training for CSEI staff'    CSEI         Improved capacitv       200,000          2rJ3,> 9
for providing                                   !            LAw.
timely socio-                                                  95
economic data
4. Project Management           External Procurement     SCFER           Enhance                 250300               COO %             ;
Advisor to set up and                    government
assist Project                           capacity in
Implementation Unit                     international
procurement
_ . ~~~practices___ _ .I.
Computer expert to assist   SCFER        Integrate        nt\O90                  3Cf). ._
beneficiary agencies "/ith               computerization                                                         |
computerization and                      strategy for aUl
implementation plan                      government
_ _ _ _ _ _      agencies           -.                                        .
PIU equipment            PlU                                      25.000



ATTACHMENT 1: Susmmary of Project Components
Main Government Objective        Project Component        Responsible       Expected         Total Cost           Out of Which           Timing
Activity             Agency        Resultstmpact         US$       ______
5. Debt Management              Experts to) review and    MOP             Strengthen               100,000          00.00                 3uS 94 - 4
modernize debt                           capacity to                                      DT; 94 4
management system                        maintain a
modern debt
management
system                                    .__
modernize economic                       capacity of the                                                  Dt L 94
analysis capability                       macroeconormic
analysis unit                   I                                        l
7. Tax Administration           Equipment to modernize    PIU             Modernization of         500,000          (0,000
tax administration in the                 government's taI
city of Tbilisi on a pilot               administration
basis                                    system         _                                                          i_ _
8. Estabishment of Treasury     Equipment to upport       Pit             Enhanced                 500,000         570,0o    _
establishment of a cmntral                capacity for
treasury                                  budget
_ management
Equipment for MOF         P:TJ                                     70,1000          70,000
Operations
9. Modernization of the customs   Experts to review and   Committee for   Modernized and          300,000          300.000                Sep 94 -
administration                  reform the organization,    Customs       streamlined                                                     Dec 95
structure, and cusWtoms   Administration   structure,
procedures                (CCA)           organization, and
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   __ ___ ___ ___ ____  _procedures  .  ,_              _ __            _   .



A7TACHMENT 1: Summary of Projedt Components
Main Gevernment Objective        ProjIt Component          pondble         Epe             Total Cost           Out of Which           Timing
AViby               Agency        Resulls/lmpact        US$             IDA      (  Grants
Experts to review transit    CCA         Improvement in           80,000           80,000               Sep 94 -
management activities                    efficiency of                                                  Dee 94
ransit
management
Experts to develop       CCA             Computerization         400,000         400,000                Sep 94 -
modenization plan                        of customs                                                     Dec 94
function
Training for customs staff  CCA          In-country              175,000          175,000               Sep 94 -
training for                                                   Apr 95
customs officers,
and external
training for
selected staff
Equipment                PIU                                     500,000          500,000
Subtotal: Economio Management                                                                  5,520.000        5,220,000     300,000
Ill. PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE REFORM 
1. Improve efficiency of       Senior privatization      Cabinet of      Fornulation of           50,000          50,0f0(0              Aug 94
productive sector through       advisor to review existing   Ministers:  improved,                                                      - Dcc 94
privafization and enterprise    constraints and          Deputy P.M.    transparent
reform                         recommend modifications   office          policies
Experts to assist in     Committee for   Development of          750,00           750,COO               Aug 94
fornnulation and design of   State Property   mass privatization                                        - Feh 05
mass privatization       Management    program with
program                  (SPM)           voucher scheme.
Public infornation       SPM             Increased public        150,000          150,000               Oct 94 -
campaign                                 awareness and                                                  Mar 95
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .___ __  . support              ...    .  _    ._



ATTACHMENT 1: Summary of Project Components
Main Government Objective       Project Component      Responsible       Expected        Total Cost          Out of Whkch           Timing
Activity          Agency         Results/Impact        US$            IDA          Grant     _
Legal advisor to review  SPM           Improved                300,000         300,000               Aug 94
and further develop                     legislative                                                  - Aug
legislative framework on                framework for                                                95
privatization                           privatization                    _
Training for SPM staff   SPM            Strengthening of        100,000         100,000              Aug 94
professional sills                                           - Aug
95
Equipment for SPM/       PIU                                   380,000         380,000
_______________________    __  ,Ministry   of Industry      .        .       .                                                       __: _ _
Experts to assist SPM   SPM/MiMisy   Development of            500,000         500,000               Aug 94
staff in development of  of Industry    privatization                                                - Feh 95
privatization methodology               methodology, and
and process through pilot               privaization of
privadzation of selected                selected
enterprises                             enterprises                                                           I
Subtotal Privatization                                                                      2,230,000       2,230,000
TOTAL ALL COMPONENTS                                                             __         10,055,000       9,455,000     600,000
Contingencies at 7%                      .   .                                                661,850         661,850
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                 10,716,850      10,116,SS0    600A0o  J



- 40 -
GEORGIA                                  Attachment 2
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
FOREIGN COST ESTIMATE IN US$S000
Equipment,                Financin
ComponenUSub-component                Experts  Training   Goods &      Total     IDA     Grant
_______________________________________                _  _  _    Materials             Credit
ART ONE: FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Advisor for financial reforms (12 m-m)    300                             300       300
Banking Supervision & Legal framework (12 m-m)   400                             300               300
Accounting & Audding (15 m-m)                    375                             375       375
Training for NBG                                           280                   280       280
Equipment for NBG                                                      250       250       250
Review of payment systems (8 m-m)                200                             200
Diagnostics of 5 state-owned banks (14 m-m)      350                             350       350
Equipment for state-owned banks                                        250       250       250
Sub-total   1,626      280         500     2,305     2,005     300
PART TWO: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Reform Econ. Mgmt. Agen. (4 m-m)                 100                             100       100
Sector Economist (12 m-m)                        300                             300         0     300
Equipment                                                              245       245       245
Project Preparation Fund                         450                             450      450
Aid coordination advisor (12 m-m)                300                             300       300
Procurement Advisor (10 m-m)                     250                             250       250
Equipment for PIU                                                       25        25        25
Equipment for a pilot tax admin project                                500       500      500
Equipment for a pilot treasury project                                 500       500      500
Computer Expert for automation planning (12 m-m)  300                            300       300
Strengthening Statistical Services
Redesign of Family Income Survey (11 m-m)        275                             275      275
Review of National Accounts (4 m-rn)             100                             100       100
Training for Statistical unit                              200                   200       200
Equipment for statistical unit                                         250       250      250
Miniy of Finance
Debt Management Support                          100                             100       100
Economic Analysis                                100                             100       100
Equipment                                                               70        70       70
Customs Administration
Trade/Customs Management (12 m-rn)               300                             300       300
Transit Management (3 m-m)                        80                              80        80
Customs Training                                           175                   175       175
Computerization Support to Customs
Experts for software adaptation & training       400                             400      400
Computers                                                              500       500      500
Subtotal                  3,055     375         2,000    5,520     5,220     300
Page 1 Total              4,680      655        2,590     7,825    7,225      600



- 41 -
GEORGIA                                  Attachment 2
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
FORE1GN COST ESTIMATE IN USS'000
Equipment,                Financing
CwnponenrtSub-component               Experts  Training   Goods &      Total     IDA     Grant
Materials              Credit
PART THREE: PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE
REFORM
Privatizaon Advisor (2 m-rn)                       50                              50       50
Design of Mass puivatization Prog (26 m-m)        650                             650       650
Printing of vouchers                                                    100       100       100
Prvatization of selected enterprises (20 rm-)     500                             500       500
Public Information Campaign (6 rn-rn)            150                             150       150
Legal Advisor (12 mrn-)                          300                             300       300
Equipment for SPMlMin of Industry                                      380       380       380
Training to SPMNMin of Industry staff                      1001                  100       100
Total Page 2 total   1,650    100         480      2,230    2,230        0
TOTAL BASE COST Page 1 and 2              6,330      785        3,070    10,055 | 94S5        60
Contingencies'                 417       50          20        66
GRAND TOTAL                 6,747       805       3,272   10,717  10,117        600
_R.a .__....a  .. *^-  4. _ .  ........._ ..-_  .         -....   . S_.._-=_            -=_= _ s_



