Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2641 GE
                       Development Credit Agreement
                      (Institution Building Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 11, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2641 GE
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "SPM" means the Ministry of State Property Management of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "Aid Management Unit" means the Secretariat to the Borrower's
Commission for Aid Management to be maintained pursuant to Section 3.03 of
this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Implementation Unit" means the unit to be maintained
pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Page  3
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
2004 and ending April 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 15, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth percent
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Association shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Association lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of
the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Aid Coordination Unit
and the Project Implementation Unit, all with adequate responsibilities and
staff in sufficient numbers.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
Page  4
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            170 Barnov Street
            Tbilisi 380062
            Republic of Georgia
                                          Telex:
Page  5
                                            212 348 MOFIN-SU
      For the Association:
            International Development
              Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in Paris, France, as of the day and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
                        By /s/ O. Patsatsia
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ B. Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               5,000,000        100%
    services,
    fellowships
    and training
(2) Computers,                 2,300,000        100% of foreign
    equipment and other                         expenditures,
    materials                                   100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
Page  6
                                                procured locally
                               _________
         TOTAL                 7,300,000
                               =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 300,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after \
April 1, 1994.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to lay an
institutional basis for economic reform in the areas of: (a) financial
sector infrastructure; (b) economic policy formulation, economic management
and aid coordination; (c) privatization and enterprise reform; and (d)
customs administration.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Financial Sector Infrastructure
(1)       Strengthening the capacity of the National Bank of Georgia in
banking supervision, preparation of legislation and regulations for the
banking sector, the implementation of the new accounting standards, training
of bankers therein, and provision of equipment.
(2)       Carrying out of diagnostic studies of five state-owned banks.
(3)       Review of the current payment system and preparation of
recommendations for its improvement.
Part B:   Economic Policy Formulation, Economic Management and  Aid
          Coordination
(1)       Strengthening the capacity of the Deputy Prime Minister's Office
responsible for economic reform to assist in the reform of economic
management, macroeconomic and sectoral policy analysis, program development
and analysis of economic statistics and provision of technical assistance
and training therefor.
(2)       Strengthening the capacity of the Aid Management Unit through the
provision of consultants' services, training, computer and other equipment.
(3)       Provision of overall support to the Project Implementation Unit,
including the provision of equipment and consultants' services.
(4)       Provision of equipment to upgrade, on a pilot basis, the
Borrower's tax administration capacity.
(5)       Provision of equipment to set up the central treasury function of
the Ministry of Finance.
(6)       Provision of technical assistance and training for the staff of
the Statistics Committee in conducting a pilot household survey and
Page  7
modernizing national accounts.
(7)       Establishment of adequate systems for debt management and economic
analysis in the Ministry of Finance.
Part C:   Privatization and Enterprise Reform
(1)       Provision of overall support on privatization policy to SPM.
(2)       Strengthening the capacity of the SPM, through the provision of
consultants' services, computer and office equipment, in:
    (a)   formulating and designing a mass privatization program;
    (b)   carrying-out public information campaign regarding the Borrower's
          privatization program, training programs for the SPM staff and
          staff of other relevant institutions in matters relating to
          privatization;
    (c)   the review of the legal framework for privatization and
          preparation of the legislative proposals and regulations for
          privatization; and
    (d)   development of privatization methodology and implementation of a
          pilot privatization of selected large enterprises.
Part D:   Customs Administration
    The establishment of a customs administration in line with the
transformation to a market economy on the basis of international standards
through:
(1)       the review of the organizaiton and procedures of customs
operations;
(2)       provisions of essential technical assistance and training in
various customs functions, such as classification and evaluation and
computerization; and
(3)       the computerization of customs clearance procedures, accounts and
statistics.
                           *          *        *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
Page  8
bidding documents based on other international recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.  Contracts for the printing of vouchers needed under Part C.2 (a) of the
Project may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three bidders from at least three countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000 may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.  Contracts for goods which are of proprietary nature or which require
standardization with existing equipment up to an aggregate amount of no more
than $100,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more and with respect to the first two contracts
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts B.1 and B.2 of this Schedule,
respectively, irrespective of the estimated cost of any such contract, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
Page  9
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exception to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts, (b) single source selection of firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Association, (d) amendments to contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above in the case of consulting firms, and (e)
amendments to contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above in the case of individuals.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $400,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
Page  10
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
