 IEG
                                                                                           Report Number: ICRR14671

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                    Date Posted: 03/31/2015

               Country: Nepal
             Project ID: P083923                                               Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Rural Access               Project Costs (US$M):                    44.04               94.30
                         Improvement And
                         Decentralization
                         Project
  L/C Number:            CH171                     Loan/Credit (US$M):                     32.00               70.40
      Sector Board:      Transport                 Cofinancing (US$M):                      2.10                0.53

          Cofinanciers: Swiss Agency for            Board Approval Date :                                06/21/2005
                        Development                          Closing Date:            12/31/2010         12/31/2013
                        Cooperation
         Sector(s):     Roads and highways (100%)
         Theme(s):      Rural services and infrastructure (50% - P); Other social development (25% - S);
                        Decentralization (25% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:          ICR Review                Group:
                                                Coordinator:
Kavita Mathur             Robert Mark Lacey     Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 The Project Development Objective (PDO) is "to assist the residents of participating districts to utilize
improved rural transport infrastructure and services, and benefit from enhanced access to social services
and economic opportunities" [Development Grant Agreement (p. 13) and Project Appraisal Document (p.
3)].
In 2009, when Additional Financing was approved (see Section 2d below), the PDO was slightly revised
to “for residents of participating districts to utilize improved rural transport infrastructure and services in
order to have enhanced access to social services and economic opportunities”. This is not considered to
be a substantive change and this Review will not undertake a split evaluation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 12/17/2009

c. Components:
 Original Components.
Component 1. Rural Transport Infrastructure (appraisal estimate US$34.6 million; revised estimate
US$40.7 million; actual cost US$72.8 million):
    (a) rehabilitation and upgrading of about 800 km of existing dry-season rural roads to all-season
     standard;
     (b) upgrading of about 200 km of existing rural trails and tracks to dry-season standard in remote hill
     districts;
     (c) maintenance of about 3,500 km of rural roads, covering routine and recurrent maintenance;
     (d) construction of 350 short-span trail bridges; and
     (e) development of small, community infrastructure, including construction of markets, community
     trails and roads; supporting resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of people affected by the project;
     and implementation of a pilot rural transport services scheme.
Component 2. Capacity Building and Advisory Services (appraisal estimate US$7.3 million; revised
estimate US$7.0 million; actual cost US$9.6 million):
     (a) implementation of training related activities, including preparation of training course materials,
     training of trainers and provision of extensive training and certification on major aspects of rural
     infrastructure development and management;
     (b) provision of technical assistance and advisory services to: (i) participating District Development
     Committees (DDCs) to support the implementation of their programs, sub-projects, and associated
     local initiatives, including financial management and accounting, project development and
     implementation, design and supervision of works, environmental management, social mobilization
     and community participation and monitoring; and (ii) Department of Local Infrastructure Development
     and Agricultural Roads (DOLIDAR) for the implementation of its Institutional Strengthening Action
     Plan, capacity-building priorities and long-term functional and organizational change goals set by the
     Government for the rural transport sector, and for project coordination and implementation activities;
     (c) preparation of a Geographic Information System (GIS) based transport master plan, development
     of a spatial profile of population/settlements that are or are not connected to an all-season road and
     undertaking of a hazard assessment and needs assessment to determine the investment
     requirements for connecting settlements;
     (d) preparation and updating of District Transport Master Plans (DTMP);
     (e) identification and preparation of a follow-up operation in the rural transport infrastructure sector;
     (f) undertaking of a study to assess the mobility and transport needs and travel patterns of the rural
     population, to examine the industrial organization of rural transport service providers and to formulate
     a pilot scheme and a rural transport policy of the Recipient;
     (g) undertaking of a study to assess the magnitude and distribution of the direct and indirect
     socioeconomic impacts of rural access transport interventions and to determine the extent to which
     interventions under the Project cause changes in the well-being of target populations;
     (h) provision of project implementation support, including logistics and operations cost, to the
     DOLIDAR and the DDCs.
Revised Components.
The Additional Financing expanded the scope of the Rural Transport Infrastructure component to cover
10 new districts (in addition to the original 20). The IDA financing for this component increased from
US$34.6 million to US$71 million, and the following changes were made:
    upgrading to all-weather standard of approximately 1,165 km (615 km originally and 550 km through
     additional financing);
    upgrading of approximately 211 km of tracks to dry season standard (61 km originally and 140 km
     through additional financing);
    317 trail bridges (166 originally and the balance through a SWAp);
    maintenance of 4,500 km (3,500 km envisaged under original financing); and
    community infrastructure with an outlay of $2.4 million (of which, $1.2 million from original financing).
Also, a new civil works sub-component, “river crossing structures” was added with a target of constructing
10 bridges by project closure.
Capacity Building and Advisory Services. The financing for this component increased from $7.31
million to $13.31 million, with a substantive part (about $4 million) of the increased allocation directed
towards implementation support and incremental costs, mainly on account of the increase in the scope of
activities under various categories of civil works. Support was also extended for measures aimed at
ensuring effective application of the Environment and Social Safeguard Framework (ESMF); the
implementation of the social action plans; and timely completion of the Remedial Action Plan.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost: The actual project cost was US$94.3 million compared to the appraisal estimate of
US$44.0 million.
Financing: At appraisal, the original IDA Grant amount was US$32.0 million. On December 19, 2009,
Additional Financing (AF) was approved in the amount of US$45.0 million, increasing the total IDA
contribution to US$77.0 million. The AF was provided to: (a) cover the shortfall in achieving the original
targets (due mainly to price increases in civil works); and (b) respond to the Government of Nepal's
request to increase the scope of various categories of civil works in the existing districts and cover 10
additional districts.
The project was restructured again in November 2013, just prior to the closing date, in order to cancel the
unutilized amount of US$6.0 million..
At appraisal, the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (in a parallel financing arrangement) had
committed US$2.1 million; the actual contribution was US$0.5 million. The project documents do not
specify whether this was in the form of a grant or a credit.
Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the Borrower Contribution was estimated at US$9.9 million. The
actual Borrower contribution was US$23.3 million.
Dates: The 2009 restructuring extended the closing date by three years, from December 31, 2010 to
December 31, 2013 to allow sufficient time for completion of remaining activities from the original
financing and the new activities from the additional financing.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
High
The project is highly relevant to the first pillar of the Country Partnership Strategy for the Fiscal Years
2014-2018, namely "Increasing economic growth and competitiveness". Under this pillar, Outcome 1.2 is
stated as "Improved transportation connectivity, internally and with India". According to the strategy, the
Bank would support transport connectivity, with a focus on rural transport and connectivity, to improve
access to markets for the poor and to facilitate national and regional integration.
At appraisal, the project objective was also highly relevant to the Country Assistance Strategy for Fiscal
Years 20004-2007, which emphasized broad based economic growth and improving governance via rural
transport infrastructure investments. These investments aimed at bolstering the agricultural sector, rural
economy and employment.

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial

The statement of development objectives was clear. The project results framework indicated a logical
causal chain between the activities financed by the project and the outputs and outcomes related to the
attainment of the development objective. Design had a mix of rural transport infrastructure improvements
and capacity building and advisory services (CBAS). Design not only included the rehabilitation and
upgrading of existing dry-season rural roads to all-season standard, and that of trails to dry season roads,
but also the development of small, community infrastructure, including construction of markets and
community trails. The project aimed to strengthen the capacity of the Department of Local Infrastructure
Development and Agricultural Road, which at appraisal was very weak. Design included enhanced
planning and asset management practices. For example, the District Transport Master Plans and
Information Technology-based road asset management.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The extent to which the project objective - "to assist the residents of participating districts to utilize
improved rural transport infrastructure and services, and benefit from enhanced access to social services
and economic opportunities" - was achieved is rated Substantial.

Outputs:
    A total of 1,741 kilometers of roads were upgraded to all-season roads compared to a revised target
     of 1,165 kilometers.
    About 141 kilometers of trails were upgraded to dry season standard. This was about 30% below the
     target of 211 kilometers.
    164 trail bridges were fully constructed with project funds. An additional 581 bridges were
     constructed but the project contribution was limited to steel fabrication parts. A total of 745 trail
     bridges were constructed, compared to the target of 317.
    At project closing, District Transport Master Plans (DTMPs) were prepared for 25 districts against the
     revised target of 10 districts. The project team confirmed that altogether 30 DTMPs were completed
     (10 in the first phase and 20 in the second phase) and that these are being used in the follow up
     project.
    The project introduced e-bidding for works contracts. The original target for adoption was seven
     District Development Committee's (DDCs). The ICR reports that this was successful and was
     introduced in all 74 DDCs and 17 Municipalities.
    The targets for the preparation and implementation of a road asset management system and MIS
     modules were achieved only partially. Design of the system was completed but it had not been fully
     installed and implemented by project closure. The project team informed IEG that a road asset
     management tool known as Rural Transport Infrastructure Management System (RuTIMS) was
     developed under the project and is now being used in the successor project (Strengthening National
     Rural Transport Program) for the preparation of the Annual Road Maintenance Plan and Multi-year
     Road Maintenance Plan.
Outcomes:
The project investments resulted in an increase in the number of trips, reduction in travel time and an
increase in traffic. The increased number of trips and traffic is used as a proxy for "increased utilization of
infrastructure," while reduced travel time and walking distance are proxies for "enhanced access to social
services and economic opportunities".
    In Hill districts, the target of a 15% increase in the number of people within a four hour walking
     distance of an all-season road was achieved in original districts and exceeded in additional districts.
     However, in Terai Districts, the target of people living within two hours of walking distance to an all
     season road was not achieved. The increase was 1.7% for original districts and 4% for additional
     districts, compared to the target of 10%. The comparisons are between 2005 and 2013.
    According to the Socio-Economic Impact Studies, the target of a 20% increase in motorized and
     non-motorized traffic was achieved, with a 145% increase in motorized trips (per household per
     month) and a 77% increase in non-motorized trips (per household per month) on 22 sampled roads
     between 2011 and 2013.
    At project closure, there was a 48% reduction in travel time for motorized trips and a 35% reduction
     for non-motorized trips (vis-a-vis the 2011 baseline) compared to the target reduction of 20%.
    A comparison of the baseline (2005) and project closure numbers of Average Daily Traffic (ADT)
     indicates an increase of 55%, 41% and 29% for buses, trucks and jeeps/micro-buses respectively.
     The ICR notes that although this compares favorably with the target of a 30% increase in each of
     these transport modes, it is not possible to establish the achievement of the target as it was set for
     Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) and not ADT (which does not include seasonable adjustments).
The ICR reports that due to differences in methodology between the 2005 and 2011 baseline studies,
2011 is considered as an alternative baseline for some indicators - for example, increases in motorized
and non-motorized traffic, and reduction in travel time. Both baselines are compared with 2013. The
limitations of the socio impact studies are discussed in detail in Section 10 below.

5. Efficiency:

A cost-effectiveness analysis of project roads was carried out in January, 2014. According to the analysis,
all projects surveyed were well within the cost effectiveness ceiling of $100 per beneficiary established in
the PAD, with the majority at US$50 or below. It should be noted, however, that this ceiling was arbitrary
and based on the available budget and the rural population density in Nepal.
At appraisal, a cost benefit analysis was performed for 15 roads using the Road Economic Decision
Model (RED). RED was developed by the World Bank for the economic evaluation of investments and
maintenance of unpaved roads. A six percent annual traffic growth was assumed. The ex-ante Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) was 28 percent. Sensitivity analysis was carried out, resulting in an ERR of 23
percent with a 20 percent increase in investment costs, and 22 percent with a 20 percent reduction in
benefits.
The ex-post ERR was estimated for 11 completed roads that were included in the 15 analyzed at
appraisal. The appraisal assumption regarding the vehicle mix was used, but an actual traffic count was
carried out. The actual traffic volume was below that originally forecast for seven of the analyzed roads,
above it for three and the same for one. The ERRs ranged from 14.4 to 73.4 percent with an average of
44.9 percent. Despite lower traffic volumes, the ex-post ERR is above the appraisal estimate due to lower
investment costs per kilometer (e-bidding resulted in lower-than-estimated prices for all-season road
contracts). The ICR reports (page 9) that the introduction of e-bidding considerably reduced the risks of
intimidation of bidders and non-competitive bidding.
The project was implemented in a difficult post-conflict environment. There were disruptions due to
insurgent activities in several project districts. In 2007, the project engineer was abducted and killed by
the Terai People's Liberation Front.
The ICR reports that the sudden change of Project Coordinator in September 2012 had a significant
negative impact on project progress.
Audits reported control deficiencies such as large advance payments provided in the last month of the
fiscal year to avoid freezing of the budget (the ICR does not state whether the audits were external). The
audits also reported inadequate district level monitoring of expenditures as some districts were unable to
furnish immediately requisite supporting documents for review purposes. .
The project also benefitted from cost savings due to the weakening of the Nepalese rupee against the US
dollar
Efficiency is rated substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                   Point Value                Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                     Yes                              28%                           60%
    ICR estimate                   Yes                                     45%                                     60%
                                     * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   The objectives remain highly relevant, while the relevance of design was substantial. Efficacy and
efficiency, on balance, are rated substantial - most output targets were achieved and there is evidence of
both increased use of road infrastructure and of increased access to services and economic
opportunities. However, there were some minor shortcomings in project implementation: (a) a 30%
shortfall in the upgrading of trails into dry season roads (6% of project cost); (b) lack of clearly
comparable baseline and closure values in certain outcome and intermediate outcome indicators; (c) a
low level of achievement in the implementation of the Management Information System; (d) critical
maintenance needs were only partially addressed; (e) lack of information and indicators make it
impossible to assess the efficacy or efficiency of the community infrastructure activities; and (f)
compliance with safeguard policies is unclear (see Section 11a below). In view of these shortcomings,
overall outcome is rated as satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The main risk is inadequate maintenance funding. The ICR (page 18) reports that the existing
government systems for rural road maintenance are weak, and that resources allocated are below
requirements. Without regular and timely maintenance, rural roads are vulnerable to rapid deterioration
due to heavy monsoon rains, steep gradients and unstable slopes. To mitigate this risk, the Government
is promoting "otta seal" surfacing for some of the higher-trafficked all-weather roads to reduce the
vulnerability to surface attrition and washing out that occurs with gravel surfacing. Furthermore, the
follow-on Bank project for "Strengthening the National Rural Transport Program”, is providing enhanced
support to road maintenance in the project districts through an output-based approach.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
    The project included an appropriate mix of investments in dry season roads, all-season roads and
trail bridges as well as capacity building support. According to the PAD (page 19), an Environmental
and Social Management Framework was prepared during preparation as per Bank Guidelines. The
PAD assigned an overall project risk rating of high. However, there were risks which were not
considered but which nonetheless materialized during implementation. These included: (i) the price
escalation of key raw materials; and (ii) the challenges associated with the transformation of trails into
dry-season roads. These led to a shortfall of funds in achieving the targeted outputs under the original
financing. There were significant shortcomings in M&E design (see section 10 below). Moreover,
insufficient attention was paid to the post-conflict environment and weak institutional capacity of the
implementing agencies.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   The ICR reports that regular supervision missions were carried out despite insurgent activities,
physical threats and unsafe operating conditions for staff in several districts.
The mid-term review imporved implementation by re-focusing on those project components where
progress was slow. The project team was flexible in modifying the Trail Bridge Program
sub-component by joining in a harmonized SWAp approach with other external partners in 2009. Also,
Additional financing was approved to bridge the de facto insufficiency of original financing and to meet
the Government's request to expand the scope of project coverage.
There were shortcomings in M&E implementation (see Section 10 b below). These include
weaknesses in the methodology of the 2005 baseline survey; and lack of specific guidelines on how to
carry the survey out.
The Bank provided consultancy support, and a computerized Financial Management Information
System to improve financial management practices (see Section 11b below).
It is not clear from the ICR the extent to which the Bank scrutinized the voluntary land donation as this
practice can lead to abuse due to forceful land acquisition.
According to the ICR, the main shortcoming of supervision was the apparent lack of recognition and
reporting of the savings arising out of lower bid prices and variations in foreign exchange rates. Since
these savings were not highlighted by the supervision team at an early stage, there was no planning
for their use. Inadvertently, therefore, they were used for upgrading of more roads, although critical
maintenance needs on existing roads were only partially addressed.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :          Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
   During preparation and the early years of implementation, there was a high level of commitment to
the project from the Government. The Government was flexible in quickly redistributing funds to
program districts with fast progress from those with slow progress. However, the effectiveness of
Government support later diminished - for example, there were abrupt changes of key staff and an
underestimation of the amount of support required to the District Development Committees. The ICR
reports that the sudden change of Project Coordinator in September 2012 had a significant negative
impact on progress of the project. After the hiring of the new Coordinator in early 2013, project
implementation improved.

  Government Performance Rating                          Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   The project was implemented by the Department of Local Infrastructure Development and
Agricultural Roads (DOLIDAR) and the District Development Committees (DDCs). During the early
stages of implementation, the capacity of DOLIDAR and DDCs was weak. Both DOLIDAR and the
DDCs enhanced their respective capacities, albeit to a varying degree. DDCs, started from a much
weaker position, and required more support. The lack of capacity at DDC level adversely affected the
dry-season roads sub-component in particular. Most physical targets were nonetheless met.
A central Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established in Kathmandu to implement and coordinate
the project activities. It consisted of a project coordinator and administrative, technical, and financial
staff. The PCU coordinated with the Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development, DOLIDAR, all
30 DDCs and the Bank staff.
Although measures were taken to improve the quality of works - such as establishment of laboratories
at the district level and appointing a quality control specialist at the PCU level - some DDC
laboratories were not fully equipped and outside laboratories proved ineffective.
There were some instances where the PCU identified procurement irregularities and halted the
awarding of the contracts.
The project was implemented in a difficult post-conflict environment. There were disruptions due to
insurgent activities in several project districts. In 2007, the project engineer was abducted and killed
by the Terai People's Liberation Front.
   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  The project design included outcome and output indicators. The two outcome indicators were: (a)
percentage increase in motorized and non-motorized trips by beneficiaries to key social and economic
centers by project closure (target 20%); and (b) reduction in travel time by beneficiaries to key social and
economic centers by project closure (target 20%).
The PAD noted (page 29) that the baseline data for trips and travel time was to be established through a
household survey of beneficiaries as part of the socioeconomic impact monitoring study, which would be
carried out early in the first year of project implementation. Two repeat surveys were to be undertaken:
one after civil works were completed, and the second two to three years after project closing. The project
would fund the first two surveys while the third would be funded by the Government.
The PAD provided baseline data on: (i) the number of people in participating hill districts that live within
four hours of walking distance to an all season road; and (ii) the number of people in participating Terai
districts that live within two hours of walking distance to an all season road.
The PDO indicators focused mainly on immediate outcomes and benefits of rural transport infrastructure
investments (for example, increased number of trips, reduced journey times) rather than the impact on
incomes and quality of life. The results framework paid inadequate attention to the quality of infrastructure
and lacked indicators for assessing the impact of community infrastructure activities.

b. M&E Implementation:
  According to the project team, the first baseline study, covering the 20 original project districts was
carried out in 2005, shortly after Board approval.

At the project restructuring in 2009, a new indicator was added to measure the increase in annual
average daily bus, truck, micro-bus and jeep traffic in the project districts. The target was 30 percent.
In 2011, new baseline data was collected that covered all 30 districts. The methodology for the survey
was changed from that in the 2005 baseline study, which had the following weaknesses: (i) the method of
calculating journey times was questionable (use of aerial distances; use of an arbitrary factor in the case
of hills for increasing access time); (ii) road heads as opposed to whole road lengths were considered for
the estimation of access time; (iii) the use of incomplete road related information; and (iv) the survey
obtained data only for motorized trips. The revised 2011 methodology was based on terrain modelling
and updated road information to estimate access time, and was also able to obtain data on both
motorized and non-motorized trips.
According to the stakeholders workshop comments (ICR page 40), the baseline survey was not done
properly - "it was felt that this had less priority by the Bank and there were no specific guidelines from the
Bank". The ICR does not specify which baseline survey was referred to - that of 2005 or that of 2011.
In 2013, at project closure, a further survey was carried out. The same methodology was used as in the
2011 survey.
These limitations make it difficult to compare the achievements of the project vis-a-vis the original 2005
targets.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The monitoring data was used to inform decision making and resource allocation, for example at the
mid-term review.
M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category B for Environmental Assessment purposes since the civil works
were small scale involving: (a) upgrading existing dry weather roads to all weather roads; (b) upgrading
existing tracks and trails to dry weather roads; and (c) maintenance of existing district roads.
As well as Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), three safeguards policies were triggered: Cultural
Property (OP 4.11); Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)
The PAD (page 19) reports that DOLIDAR prepared an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) to define the modalities for conducting social screening to assess the potential
impact of the project on households, recording voluntary land donations, and assessing the institutional
structure to support social impact management, including monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The
PAD (page 20) further notes that, although no involuntary resettlement was anticipated under the project,
a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was completed in the event of minor land acquisition. Also, a
Vulnerable Communities Development Framework was prepared to ensure that indigenous, tribal,
minority and vulnerable groups were not adversely impacted by the project.
Safeguards Implementation:
Environmental safeguards
There were delays in the preparation of environmental documents such as the Initial Environmental
Examinations, Environmental Management Plans (EMPs), designing of site-specific plans for mitigation
works, and implementation of mitigation measures. There were also delays in central and district level
monitoring, some of which persisted until late 2012. According to the ICR (page 8), environmental
performance varied from road to road, ranging from moderately unsatisfactory to moderately satisfactory.
During the preparation for the additional financing and subsequent updating of the ESMF, environmental
specialists were assigned to the project and the ICR reports that compliance with environmental
safeguards improved.
The ICR rates the implementation of environmental safeguards as moderately satisfactory, but does not
state whether there was compliance with OP 4.01.
Social Safeguards:
Although the project involved the upgrading of existing roads rather than new alignments, some land
acquisition was required. Implementation of OP 4.12 was initially slow and at the mid-term review, it was
rated as “highly unsatisfactory” due to non-payment of compensation to project-affected families. The
Project Coordination Unit undertook an assessment of voluntary land donations and the numbers of
affected families, and prepared a Remedial Action Plan.
The ICR’s treatment of the implementation of OP 4.12 is confusing. First, the extent to which the Bank
scrutinized the voluntary land donation process (which can lead to abuse due to forceful land acquisition)
is unclear. Second, the ICR (page 8) reports that there were 12,558 affected families, out of which only
the 204 severely affected families (land 162, structure 37, and livelihood loss 5) received compensation. It
then further reports that 11,460 out of 11,866 land owners were compensated, and that the Remedial
Action Plan resulted in the resolution of 97% of the land ownership issues by project closing. It is not
stated whether these totals included the voluntary donors and the severely affected families. Third, it is
unknown how many people were actually compensated during project implementation and if the
compensation was adequate. Fourth, the ICR is inconsistent in the rating of social safeguards. In
paragraph 33, social safeguards are rated satisfactory, while in paragraph 35 the rating is moderately
satisfactory.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management: The ICR reports deficiencies in financial management such as inadequate
district level monitoring of expenditures and, in the case of some districts, the project was not able to
furnish immediately requisite supporting documents for review purposes. Audits reported control
deficiencies such as: (a) large advance payments provided in the last month of the fiscal year to avoid
freezing of the budget, (b) delays in settling advances provided by DDCs, and (c) misuse of project’s
assets. To improve financial management, the Bank provided consultancy support, and a computerized
Financial Management Information System (FMIS) was adopted. The project team stated that the period
of consultancy support was for three months in two tranches, and that this resulted in timely submission
of financial monitoring reports and audit reports. The ICR does not state whether the external auditor's
opinions were unqualified.
Procurement: The ICR reports that procurement was carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
guidelines. The procurement of works was carried by the respective districts while goods and services
were procured by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU verified and reviewed the Bid Evaluation
Reports prepared by the districts to ensure their consistency with the approved evaluation and
qualification criteria.
The PCU also checked for any evidence of collusion, coercion or limited participation and competition.
There were some instances where the PCU identified procurement irregularities and halted the awarding
of the contracts.
As noted in Section 5 above, the project benefitted from lower-than-estimated prices for all-season road
contracts (due to e-bidding) and a significant increase in the value of the US dollar against the Nepali
rupee.
There were no reported cases of misprocurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None reported.

d. Other:
None reported.

12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory      The objectives remain highly
                               Satisfactory                                   relevant, while the relevance of
                                                                              design was substantial. Efficacy
                                                                              and efficiency, on balance, are
                                                                              rated substantial - most output
                                                                              targets were achieved and there is
                                                                              evidence of both increased use of
                                                                              road infrastructure and of increased
                                                                              access to services and economic
                                                                              opportunities.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR highlights the following lessons:
  In a decentralized rural roads project, which is spread across a wide geographical area,
   institutional strengthening, especially at the lower level of government, can require significantly
   more resources than strengthening of institutions at central level. Also, institutional strengthening
   measures such as completion of e-procurement, asset management system, and RuTIMs, should
   be implemented early on rather than during the final phases of implementation. Under the project,
   these measures were implemented late in the project cycle, making it difficult to assess the extent
   to which these systems improved the capacity of the implementing agencies (DOLIDAR and
   DDCs).
    The project experience showed that e-bidding can enhance transparency at the local level, thus
     preventing collusion among the bidders. E-bidding created an enabling environment for open
     competition and resulted in lower-than-estimated prices for all-season road contracts.
IEG adds the following lessons:
    The voluntary donation of land transfers for project activities may lead to abuse. Careful monitoring
     by the Bank can help to ensure that abuse does not occur and that the donation is genuinely
     voluntary.
    Lack of attention at the outset to survey methodology may lead to the need, as in this case, for a
     complete revision at a late stage in implementation. This impedes evaluation of the project’s
     efficacy.

14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is generally clearly written and provides a thorough analysis of issues during implementation and
is appropriately critical of the M&E methodology. However, there are some shortcomings:
    The ICR’s treatment of land acquisition and involuntary resettlement is confusing (see Section 11a
     above).
    The ICR contains no clear statement of compliance with OP 4.01, and does not report on the
     implementation of Cultural Property (OP 4.11) and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) safeguards
     policies.
    The ICR does not state whether the auditor's opinions were unqualified.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
