Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C  ,#.//  ^f)'>
Report No. P-4550-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 11.7 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 21.4 MILLION
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 11, 1987
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used D/ recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its Contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00                   =          UM 72 (April 1987)
UM 1 million                         US$13,830 (1987)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                         US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          -         0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) -          0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            D         2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)          =         2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)           =         2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICI  use ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
Table of Contents
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Page
List of Acronyms and Abbreviations ................................         i
Credit Summary ............ ..........****........*.........               ii
PART I   - THE ECONOMY .....................................                1
A.  Economic and Financial Developments, 1978-1984......        2
B.  The Recovery Program and First Results .............        3
PART II  - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ... ......        4
A.  Macroeconomic Policies ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
B.  Public Sector Management          ...........................  8
C.  Banking Sector Reform ...        .... ........... ... .    10
D.  Energy Sector ...... 66** .............. ...  .............  13
E.  Agriculture and Food Policy          ........................  15
F.  Fisheries Sector          ..................................  17
G. Private Sector Promotion         ...........................  18
PART III - ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM           ...........  ...... ....      20
A.  Growth Prospects and Prerequisites .....      ............    i20
B.  Need for Foreign Assistance          ........................  24
C.  Social Impact ................                             26
PART IV  - THE PROPOSED CREDITS               .................            28
A.  Financing ........................      .......*****       28
B.  Monitorable Actions                ................... .***  28
C.  Next Phase for Adjustment Effort ...................       30
D.  Management and Administration         ......................  31
E.  Coordination with the IMF and Other Donors .........       32
F.  Procurement, Disbursements and Retroactive Financing       32
G.  Benefits                    ........                       33
R.  Risks ..........      ...............................      33
Thi document ha a resticted distibuon and may be ud by ret,  ',prlpofornuce
of teir offlW d4uties. Its contnts may not orwi be discksed with%.  k authoodlton.



Table of Contents (cont.)
PART V   - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY .....................    35
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION         .........................................  38
Text Table
Table 1  Composition of Public Investment by Sector .........      7
Table 2  Macroeconomic Projections Summary ..................    21
Table 3  External Asiistance and Debt .......................    25
ANNEES
Annex I  - Economic Indicator Data Sheet         ...................    39
Annex It  - Status of Bank Group Operations .................    42
Annex III - Projections:  Selected Tables  ...................    43
Annex IV - Letter of Development Policy .....      ...............    47
Annex V   - Natrix of Actions ......        ........ ......*      77
l



LIST OF ACROYMS AND ABBREVIUTIONS
Acronym/Abbreviation  Definition
ACP-EEC               Africa/Caribbean/Pacific - European Economic Community
AFDB                  African Development Bank
AFESD                 Arab Pund for Econ.mic and Social Development
BALM                  Banque Arabe Libyenne pour le Commerce et le D4veloppement
BAMIS                 Banque Al Baraka Nauritano-Islamique
BCH                   Banque Centrale de Mauritanie
BNA,                  Banque Internationale pour la Neuritanie
BMCI                  Banque Mauritanienne pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
BNDC                  Banque Mauritanienne du D6veloppement et du Commerce
CCCE                  Caisse Centrale de Coop4ratioi Economique (France)
CFF                   Compcnsatory financing facility
CF                    Common fund
CG                    Consultative group
CSA                   Commissariat   la 1Scurit6 Altmentaire
EEC                   European Economic Community
ED?                   European Development Fund
EMN                   Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott
FAO                   (United Nations) Food and Agriculture Organization
FF1                   Food-for-Work
FIRVA                 Fonds d'Insertion et de Rensertion dans la Vie Active
-ndD                  Fonds National du DNveloppement
FRG                   Federal Republic of Germany
ICOR                  Incremental Capital Output Ratio
LDP                   Letter of Development Policy
MrE                   Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIFERMA               Ex-Societ6 Mini0re de Wer de Nauritanie (now-SNIM)
OPT                   Office des Postes et T4l6communications
PFP                   Policy Frame-work Paper
RP                    Recovery program
SAE                   Structural Adjustment Facility
SFA                   Special Facility for Africal
SJF                   Special Joint Financing
SMB                   Societ6 Mauritanienne de Banque
SMCP                  Societe Mauritanienne pour la Commercialisation du Poisson
SMCPP                 Socit6 Mauritanienne pour la Commercialisation des
Produits P6troliers
SME                   Small and medium enterprise
SNIM                  Soci6td Nationale Industrielle et Mini6re
SOMIR                 Socilte Mauritanienne des Industrie de Raffinage
SONADER               Soci&tg Nationale pour le Dwveloppement Rural
SONELEC               Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
SONIMEX               Societe Nationale d'Import export (Food)
STPN                  Societe de Transport Public de Nouakchott
UN                    Ouguiya
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program



- ii -
MAURITANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
Credit Summary
Borrower:   Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Amounts:   IDA Credit: SDR 11.7 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Special Facility for Africa Credit: SDR 21.4 million
(US$27.4 million equivalent)
Special Joint Financing Facilities:
Federal Republic of Germany: DM 5.0 million
(US$2.8 million equivalent)
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: SR 18.0 million
(US$4.8 million equivalent)
Terms:   Standard IDA
Description
of Credits:   The proposed Credits would support the Government's comprehensive
adjustment program for addressing the key macroeconomic and
sectoral issues facing Mauritania over the mediumterm. This
program is described in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy which contains a matrix of specific, monitorable actions
(Annex IV). The objective of the program is to help the
Government achieve its mediumterm goal of an economic growth of
about 2.5 percent rate per annum. To achieve this objective, the
Government has developed and adopted: (i) a growth strategy based
on the fisheries and rural sectors; (ii) a program to improve
economic management; and (iii) a program to promote the private
sector. Detailed action programs have been developed in the
following areas: macroeconomic management, civil service and
public administration, the banking sector, energy, agriculture
and food pot-icy, fisheries, and private sector promotion. These
action programs will be implemented over the next twelve months.
The foreign exchange provided under the Credits would be used to
finance essential imports.
Risks:   The main risks associated with the proposed operation are:  (a)
the uncertainty of weather conditions affecting the agriculture
sector; (b) the volatility of world prices for iron ore and fish;
(c) a slower and/or weaker than expected response from the
private sector; (d) a strong negative public reaction to the
recommended austerity measures; and (e) the possibility that the
Government's implementation capacity may be overtaxed by the
comprehensive nature of the reform.
Estimated
Disbursements:   The proposed Credits would be disbursed in two tranches, the
first, for US$25 million equivalent, upon effectiveness and the
second, equivalent to US$25 million, upon satisfactory overall
implementation of the program and provided the conditions in
para. 82 have been fulfilled.



ITERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 11.7 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICA FACILITY CREDIT
OF SDR 21.4 MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 11.7 million (US$15 million equivalent), a
proposed Special Africa Facility Credit of SDR 21.4 million (US$27.4
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania to help support the Government's Structural Adjustment Program.
The program will also be supported by two Special Joint Financing (SJF)
Credits in total amount of $7.6 million (DM 5.0 million from the Federal
Republic of Germany and SR 18.0 million from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia).
2.        Part I of this report reviews the characteristics, performance
and constraints of the economy; Part It outlines the Government's Structur-
al Adjustment Program; and Part III analyzes the expected economic, finan-
cial and social impact of the program and subsequent prospects. Parts IV
and V describe the proposed operation and Bank Group operations and strate-
gy in Mauritania.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
3.        A report entitled Mauritania: Country Economic Memorandum
(No.5537-MAU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 10, 1985.
Updated country data appear in Annex I.
4.        Mauritania faces today a multitude of economic problems which
have resulted from repeated drought and the sluggish world demand for iron
ore, its main export. These problems were exacerbated by the Government's
own weak economic management and poorly conceived investment policy
throughout much of the 1970s and the early 1980s. The investment effort
was stepped up in the mid-1970s with the support of heavy inflows of
foreign assistance. These resources were used principally to finance
ambitious projects which were to prove non-viable except in the iron ore
sector. External and internal factors combined were, thus, responsible for
t l transition from the period of economic growth in the 19609, when GDP
expanded at an average annual rate of 8 percent, to a period of stagnation
and financial instability in the 1980s. As a result of these trends and a
population growth rate of 2.7 percent per annum, per capita income of about
US$410 in 1986 was no higher in real terms than a decade before.



- 2 -
5.        Since December 1984, a new Government has undertaken, with marked
success, a series of policy adJustments aimed at regaining stability and
reducing financial disequilibrium. Additional, more comprehensive policy
reforms are now planned to create the conditions for a more equitable
economic and social development. However, the country faces deep-rooted
constraints to sustainable growth, and efforts to raise living standards
among the mass of the Mauritanian population--severely affected by recent
droughts--continue to be constrained by the limited number of trained
managers, progressive desertification, and the lack of export
diversification prospects.
A.   Economic and Financial Developments, 1978-1984
6.        In 1978 and 1980, the Government negotiated stabilization pro-
grams with the IMF, 1/ which called for the rescheduling of debt service
obligations, tight controls over government expenditures and an intensified
tax effort. However, the improved performance of the economy could not be
maintained in the face of a depressed world market for iron ore and the
recurrence of severe droughts. Iron ore production fell by more than 20
percent in 1982/83; the livestock herd suffered major losses; and cereals
production met less than 10 percent of total demand.
7.        The public finance situation, too, deteriorated substantially.
The Government's consolidated fiscal deficit rose to a peak of 11.2 percent
of GDP in 1984. Expansion of the civil service and high external debt
service payments contributed to the deficits. These were financed out of
Central Bank advances to the Treasury and through the accumulation of
external and domestic arrears. At the end of 1984, arrears on external
debt service amounted to about US$100 million.
8.        In the external sector, export growth was modest, but imports
remained at a high level mainly because of capital imports associated with
major public investments. In 1983-84, the current account deficit was
about 30 percent of GDP, while the investment/GDP ratio averaged 35 per-
cent. A legacy of this period is that in spite of a high degree of
concessionality, Mauritania's annual external debt service obligations
substantially exceed its payment capacity. Total scheduled payments on
existing debt would imply a debt service averaging nearly US$200 million a
year over the 1987-89 period, or about 40 percent of exports of goods and
services.
9.        While exogenous factors contributed significantly to the deterio-
ration of Mauritania's economic and financial situation, their impact was
aggravated by weak overall economic policies. These were manifested in (i)
poor management of public enterprises, reflected in heavy financial losses,
1/   First, under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF) for SDR 10.5
million; later, under a first Stand-by arrangement for SDR 29.7
million, which had to be replaced almost immediately by a revised one
for SDR 25.8 million.



-3-
overstaffing and inefficiencies; (ii) inappropriate sector strategies
which, in particular, neglected long-term external and domestic demand
constraints and intersectoral linkages; and (iii) the lack of appropriate
criteria for selecting public investments, which resulted in starting
projects with low or even negative rates of return.
10.       Because of its geopolitical situation, Mauritania has benefitted
from an unusually high external assistance of about US$180 per capita p.a
over the 1982-84 period. This assistance has financed large and
inadequately appraised and poorly-managed public investments. Moreover, it
has allowed the country to live above its means and postpone facing the
inevitable structural reform of the economy. The deteriorating performance
of the economy, however, started to alarm even Mauritania's most lenient
donors and creditors. When confronted with its inability to service its
debt and settle its arrears, the country had to face the inescapable need
for comprehensive structural reforms. The experience of the previous
stabilization programs and the aborted 1981-85 Development Plan clearly
showed that, without such reforms, the country could not expect any lasting
improvement in its growth prospects. In this context, a new Government
team headed by President Taya started preparing and implementing a
comprehensive Economic and Financial Recovery Program (RP) for the 1985-88
period which was fully endorsed by the donors at the first meeting of the
Consultative Group (CG) for Mauritania in November 1985.
B.   The Recovery Program and First Results
11.       The Recovery Program (RP) focused on implementing  the following
austerity and restructuring measures: a flexible exchange rate policy; a
restrictive monetary and credit policy favoring the private sector; ;%ntin-
ued austerity in public finances; decontrol of prices so that they reflect
real costs; continued rehabilitation of the parapublic sector; an invest-
ment program giving priority to the productive sectors (fisheries and
agriculture) and rehabilitation projects (in mining, infrastructure and
public services); development of training facilities tailored to the needs
of the economy; and setting up of an incentive framework to promote private
investment, job creation, and community participation in the satisfaction
of basic needs.
12.       The Government implemented a first two-year phase of stabiliza-
tion measures under two IMF Stand-by arrangements approved on April 12,
1985 and April 26, 1986 respectively, both for SDR 12 million. Implementa-
tion for the 1985-86 period has been impressive, notably: a 22 percent
devaluation in real terms coupled with implementation of a flexible ex-
change rate policy; an inflation rate kept below 9 percent p.a.;
across-the-board increase in interest rates of 2 percent which kept them
positive in real terms; sizeable adjustments in producer and consumer food
prices and automstic adjustment of other regulated prices to reflect cost
incr4ases; a freeze on the number of public servants; and a cut in public
investments from 29 percent of GDP in 1984 to 22 percent in 1986 by limit-
ing the program to justifiable, high-priority projects. The devaluation
stimulated fish exports and helped to contain the financial losses in the
iron ore sector resulting from the fall in world prices. The strict
budgetary discipline enforced during the past two years increased revenues



-4-
by 19 percent p.a., while outlays expanded by only 10 percent, bringing
about an overall budgetary surplus in 1986. The restrictive monetary
policy, following IMP guidelines, kept credit to the Government at its 1984
level; new loans were limited to the fishing and industry sectors. At the
same time, the Government continued to implement rehabilitation measures in
the parapublic sector, including tariff adjustments.
13.       Financial support for the RP was agreed at a Special Donor
Conference organized by the Bank in Paris in March 1985. Rescheduling of
extental debt service was negotiated at two Paris Club meetings in 1985
(including arrears accumulated up to December 1984) and in 1986 and during
bilateral negotiations. As a result, large external resource gaps of about
US$300 million (including arrears) in 198' and US$120 million in 1986 were
successfully financed, in particular thcough rescheduling and direct
balance of payments support. All arrears were eliminated. The external
current account deficit was reduced and savings performance improved.
14.       With the objective of continuing and expanding these positive
efforts, the Government has adopted an updated Structural Adjustment
Program which is consistent with the Policy Framework Paper (PIP) discussed
by the Board in September 1986; with this PFP, Mauritania obtained
assistance of SDR 6.8 million under the IMF's Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF) in 1986. In addition, after having satisfied, with
remarkable punctuality, the performance criteria of two stabilization
programs with the IMP, the Government has successfully negotiated a third
Stand-by arrangement for SDR 10 million on May 4, 1987 which should enable
Mauritania to seek a new rescheduling of its external debt through the
Paris Club in June 1987 and through bilateral agreements. The structural
adjustment measures that it intends to implement in 1987-88 are described
in a Letter of Development Policy (LDk) and a matrix of actions which are
attached in Annexes IV and V and summarized in Part II.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMT fROGRAM
15.       The Government's medium-term objective is to contain the fiscal
and external account imbalances and prepare the basis for a sustainable per
capita income growth. Priority is given to actions to (i) maintain the
main macroeconomic equilibria; (ii) Improve economic management (mainly
public sector management and banking sector reform); and (1ii) improve
domestic production prospects (mainly through energy policy, food policy,
fisheries promotion, and private sector promotion). In parallel, social
measures aim at cushioning the impact on negatively affected groups.
Macroeconomic consequences are smmarized in Part III. Because of manage-
ment constraints, the Government program concentrates on a carefully
selected set of measures for immediate execution, which are described
below. The SAL program focuses on "core actions" which can be defined in
monitorable terms (listed in Part IV).



-5-
A. Macroeconomic Policies
16.       Since 1985, significant progress has been achieved in reducing
and controlling the financial imbalances of the economy (para. 12). To
continue this performance, the Government will introduce additional fiscal
and balance of payment measures as follows.
17.       Fiscal Revenues.  Total tax and non-tax revenues are estimated to
have reached a ratio to GDP (at factor cost) of about 26.4 percent in 1986,
compared to 25.4 percent in 1984. This ratio reflects a substantial effort
to improve the recovery of tax assessments and arrears.   Increasing the
tax rates, which are already quite high, could have a disincentive effect
on the economy in view of the country's poor endowment. Therefore, the
main objectives of the fiscal reform will be to improve the efficiency of
the fiscal system by reducing tax rates while limiting exemptions to
priority sectors, providing incentives to profitable economic ventures and
improving burden sharing.
18.       A first step was to reduce the number of tax exemptions in the
1987 Budget Law. The next step is to review the impact of the present
fiscal system on growth prospects in three key sectors: mining, fisheries,
and small entrepreneurs. Studies on this have already been initiated and
will be completed by June 1987. With IMF assistance, several reforms of
key aspects of the fiscal system will be reviewed before the end of 1987
and reflected in the preparation of the 1988 Budget Law.
19.       Current Expenditures.  The Government has adopted stringent
measures tO (i) keep budgetary expansion below the GDP growth rate in
current prices, and (ii) improve the budgetary effort in priority social
sectors (para. 72). It is committed to continuing these measures in 1987
and 1988. The key measures are:
-    no increase in civil servants' wage bill in real terms.  This
requires a freeze on the number of civil servants, ;xcept those
in education and health (which will be compensated by a decrease
in benefits); and
-    no increase in all non-wage expenditures except for interest
payments and operating costs for social ministries. All subsi-
dies to public enterprises with commercial production were
abolished in 1985.
20.       The Government is aware of the difficulties and risks of exercis-
ing budgetary austerity by limiting expenditures across-the-board. It has,
therefore, embarked on a thorough restructuring of the budgetary process
and sectoral allocations. This reform will take time to become fully
operational, but same priority actions will be implemented in 1987-88, as
follows.
21.       Consolidated Budget.  In the past, budgetary procedures covered
only expenditures financed by domestic resources. In order to control all
financing sources used by Government, the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF) will prepare, with the help of the tank Group and the IMP,



- 6 -
consolidated budget8 encompassing both internally- and externally-financed
expenditures, current and capital. Through Stand-by arrangements, the IMF
will monitor the trends of the main budgetary components and financing
gaps. The first consolidated budget was prepared for 1987. This first
attempt needs to be strengthened, and in October 1987, an analysis of the
new procedure, coupled with a public expenditure review, will be carried
out with Bank Group assistance. The focus will be on the sectoral
distribution of current and investment expenditures. In that context,
attention will be given to: (i) the cost effectiveness of budget
expenditures and recurrent costs allocated to the social sectors-in
particular education, the fastest growing budget item; and (ii) greater
local cost financing by promoting the use of food aid (para. 52). Based on
this review, the Government will restructure the central budget, starting
with the one for 1988.
22.       Public Investment Program.    The Association reviewed the public
project portfolio through a PIR mission in May 1985 and discussed the
1985-88 Recovery Program which included an investment program concentrated
on high-priority infrastructure rehabilitation and quick-yielding projects.
As a result, the annual public investments were scaled down relative to GDP
as shown in Table 1.
23.       Lessons from the serious inefficiencies of past public invest-
ments were candidly drawn in the Recovery Program. In the LDP, the Govern-
ment is committed to limiting future investment to projects which are well
prepared, with acceptable economic rates of return, adequate management
capabilities, and operating and maintenance funds. Improving the contribu-
tion of these investments to economic growth will necessitate better
project preparation and appraisal and strengthening of public investment
management, with tighter coordination between planning and technical
departments, in particular prior to new foreign-financing negotiations.
24.       The reorientation of public investment has been appropriate in
several respects. First, emphasis has been given to rural development.
Industry's share has declined mainly because the impetus for this sector
has been shifted to private entrepreneurship. The Government is taking a
firm stand against the creation of public enterprises during the recovery
period (para. 30). Second, in 1985-86, the share of public investment
financed by grants increased markedly -- from 19 percent in 1984 to 38
percent - and that of domestic financing rose from 4 percent to 6 percent.
Moreover, since early 1985, coordination among publ'c agencies has been
improving, and the discipline imposed by the list of projects attached to
the RP was strictly respected by Government and donors in recent bilateral
negotiations. Prior to SAL negotiations, the RP program's tranche for 1987
was jointly agreed upon with the Association in the context of consolidated
budget procedures (para. 21). The Association will seek a similar
agreement for the 1988 budget. The preparation of the next CG meeting in
1988 will also be used to intensify the implementation of the
above-mentioned measures, jointly with the elabcration of a 1988-90
investment program.



-7-
Table 1. Composition of Public Investment, by Sector
(Percentage Distribution)
(Actual)    (Actual)        (Programmed)   (Estimated)
1975-80      1981-84           1985-88       1985-86
Rural infrastructure   8.0           21.1            20.0           21.5
Other rural             2.0           4.7            15.3            12.2
Fisheries               2.2           0.6             5.0             1.7
Mining                  8.5          37.4            10.8            13.0
Industry               15.2           2.5             3.0            4.3
Public utilities        4.7           4.8            16.2            15.2
Transpor:stion         45.4          22.5            17.2            23.5
Social                 14.0           6.4            12.5            8.6
Total               106.0         100.0           100.0          100.0
Memo Item - Average annual investment (US$ million)
Current prices      171           235             162            175
1982 prices        225            226             118            131
(In Z of GDP)    (29.6)         (31.2)          (22.4)         (23.2)
25.       The discipline imposed by the consolidated budget procedures,
together with the granting of approval authority for new projects and
borrowing to an Interministerial Committee (para. 84), will help the
orderly execution of the investment program. The special attention now
given by the Government to strengthening project management and programming
is reflected in the pursuit of the following objectives:
-    implementing three-year rolling investment programs which will be
discussed at CG or donor sector meetings and executed by annual
tranches, using consolidated budget procedures;
-    assuring consistency between budgetary provisions and the ad-
vancement phase of projects;
-    improving project supervision capabilities in key technical
ministries. Planning units already exist for rural development,
fisheries, education and health, but they will be strengthened;
-    streamlining bidding procedures and strengthening the autonomy of
public enterprise managers in executing their programs, once
approved (a Bank Group mission is preparing recommendations to be
implemented before the end of 1987);
-    providing adequate budgetary provisions for recurrent and mainte-
nance costs; and
-    mobilizing adequate local cost financing by using food aid
counterparts (para. 52).



-8-
The success of these measures will depend on the extent to which the donors
support them as well as on other institutional reforms in areas such as aid
coordination, food policy, and the fisheries sector.
26.       External Deficits.  Another objective of the macroeconomic
policies is to keep external current account imbalances at a manageable
level in order to stabilize the net requirements for foreign assistance (in
kind or in cash, para. 69). The main instrument will remain the flex- e
exchange rate policy (para. 12). There is a need, however, to manage this
oolicy by taking into account the combined impact of exchange rate
adjustments and fiscal policy on the ability to maintain competitiveness in
the export sectors (fisheries and iron ore, paras. 63 and 65).
27.       To control domestic demand for imports, the Government will phase
out import quotas on a schedule to be decided once the ongoing study on
protection is completed (para. 57). Import licensing will be progressively
liberalized starting with intermediate and capital goods in 1987. To avoid
short-term disruptive effects on the external current account, the liberal-
ization measures will be combined with reduced duty exemptions (para. 58)
and a revised credit policy (para. 36). The monitoring of these policies
will put heavy pressure on public sector management.
B.  Pullic Sector Management
28.       Civil Service and Public Administration.  The small group of
managers in charge of preparing and implementing the Recovery Program can
count on only limited support from the poorly-trained public service.
Therefore, relieving the administrative bottlenecks to structural adjust-
ment is a priority. An Administrative Assessment carried out by the Bank
Group in late 1985 highlighted the need to start improving personnel
management and overhauling the decision-making process in the Mauritanian
administration. An IDA credit to assist development management currently
under preparation is designed to assist in implementing some of the most
pressing reforms and preparing the next ones by providing technical
assistance and financing special studies required.  This project will
complement existing programs from other donors (France, Germany, EDP, USAID
and UNDP).
29.       The Government assigns particular importance to reforming the
management of public entities and personnel management policies and to
strengthening the institutions responsible for economic management. An
action program has been elaborated to strengthen the Ministry of Economy
and Finance based on an internal review of this Ministry's operations
initiated by the French technical assistance. The definition and implemen-
tation of a broad-ranging program of administrative reforms will take time,
but in the LDP, the Government has agreed to start with specific actions
to address the immediate deficiencies in public service management. These
measures include: (i) establishing an institutional capability for adminis-
trative reform (done in February 1987); (ii) ;mplementing a detailed action
plan for reorganizing and computerizing civil service management; and (iii)
undertaking a thorough review and assessment of public employment and
non-salary compensation. The last two actions will be prepared in 1987;



- 9 -
preliminary corrective measures will be included in the 1988 Budget Law, in
cooperation with the IMF.
30.       Public Enterprise Management. The Government defined a strategy
and a program to restructure the entire public sector in 1984. The two
main goals are to restructure existing enterprises if they are viable and
to refrain from creating new ones. For the existing enterprises, the
Government has already implemented selective rehabilitation of the five
largest enterprises, privatization (involving three enterprises) and
liquidation (affecting five). The Government intends to pursue this
program, in particular in -he banking sector, by privatizing three banks
(para. 40). Implementation is being closely supervised under our
Parapublic Sector Rehabilitation Credit (FY85) as well as under two
sectoral operations. The Government has assigned priority to the five
largest enterprises, which have already shown an improvement in their
efficiency, but their financial viability remains shaky. SNIM (iron ore)
is actively implementing a program to increase efficiency, supported by a
US$20 million loan by the Bank, approved in December 1985. Long-term
projections indicate that the export price of iron ore will, if anything,
deteriorate in real terms. The survival of the company will, therefore,
require stringent measures to cut labor and other operating costs. Already
in March 1987, a cut by 25 percent of the total labor force was
implemented, coupled with other austerity measures. At a meeting in Paris
on April 1 and 2, 1987, the main co-lenders complimented Mauritania for
this remarkable effort and pledged support to help finance measures geared
to improve productivity. The Governnent agreed to adjust the export tax to
preserve SNIM's financial viability (a 50 percent cut has already been
granted for 1987, equivalent to 3 percent of government revenues). It
promised to use the flexible exchange policy to help SNIM maintain its
competiltveness.
31.       Among the other priority enterprises, SONADER (the irrigation
agency), has already streamlined its operations and taken measures to
strengthen its management, iuprove its field interventions to meet farmers'
needs and help implement the future irrigation master plan in the Senegal
Valley (para. 47). OPT (Post and Telecommunications) is renegotiating the
service of debts incurred for excessive telecommunications equipment; ENN
(Nouakchott Wharf) is being reinforced to take over the management of the
Nouakchott deep-sea harbor, just completed with Chinese assistance; and
SONELEC (water and electricity) is constructing a new cost-saving power
plant in Nouakchott (para. 46).
32.       These five priority operations, now fairly advanced, will be
complemented by a second set of restructuring operations in the framework
of the sectoral strategies implemented in 1986 and 1987; the Bank Group is
focusing its assistance on the banking, energy, fisheries and food-policy
fields. The public sector management will be reviewed during 1987 when an
intense program of studies, now in process, produces recommendations on
wage policies, training, accounting procedures, and the policies governing
relations between the State and public enterprises.



- 10 -
C. Banking Sector Reform
33.       Over the past years, the Mauritanian banking system has become
increasingly fragile. Unable to mobilize adequate local resources to
finance the growth of credit to the economy, and facing limited rediscount
facilities because of the restrictive monetary policy initiated under the
stabilization programs, the primary banks resorted to heavy and costly
foreign financial facilities, and thus aggravated the country's foreign
reserve situation. This was coupled with very high portfolio arrears due
to a weak credit policy. The result has been a snowballing liquidity
crisis that the Central Bank (BCM) could not control because of lack of
proper organizational and control procedures. The Government has already
introduced reforms in its credit and monetary policies, but it recognizes
that these will not be sufficient to salvage the system. It has decided to
restructure the entire banking system.
34.       In July 1985, in response to these shortcomings, the Government
commissioned a consulting firm to study the whole banking system and
identify appropriate measures to stop its deterioration. This study,
co-financed by the Association and the Arab Monetary Fund, was completed in
mid-1986. It confirmed that the overall situation of five out of the
seven Mauritanian banks (BIDA, SMB, BNDC, BMCI, and BALM) 2/ was very
critical and that the banking system needed a thorough restructuring. As
of end-1985, uncollectible and doubtful loans granted by these institutions
amounted to about UM 10 billion (about US$130 million), or 51 percent of
total credit to the economy and 36 percent of total banks' assets. Banks
do not have the capacity to make adequate provisions for bad loans.
Meanwhile, they would still owe foreign creditors about UM 2.2 billion (or
US$30 million).  The study, therefore, recommended  a massive financial
restructuring plan, coupled with measures to improve the organization,
procedures and managerial capability of BCM (the central bank), and of the
primary banks.
35.       In March 1987, the Government and the Association agreed on 'a
reform program for the banking system focusing on three main areas:
(i) reforming credit policies and banking regulations; (ii) strengthening
of the Central Bank; and (iii) restructuring of four of the seven
financial institutions. These are discussed below. In developing this
reform program, the Bank Group has worked in close collaboration with the
IMF. The Association has focused on the restructuring of the commercial
banking system; the IMF has concentrated on the management of the Central
Bank.
2/  The State has a majority shareholding in three banks (BIMA, SMB and
BMDC). It has a minority participation in BALM (owned jointly with
Libya) and BMCI (in which 90 percent of equity is owned by private
Mauritanians). One institution, the National Development Fund (FND),
is too recent to have yet encountered financial difficulties. The
seventh institution, BAMIS, an Islamic Bank, which started operations
in 1986, was not included in the study.



- 11 -
36.       Reform of Credit Policies and Banking Regulations.  The Govern-
ment has decided to develop financial policy reforms directed at containing
inflation, maintaining aggregate demand for credit in line with available
resources, improving credit allocation, and promoting savings. First, BCM
will strengthen its monitoring of credit policy (rediscounted credit as
well as advances to the Government) through the administration of ceilings
initiated and periodically reviewed with IMF assistance. Second, follow-
i.ng the reorganization of its main departments, BCM will strengthen credit
screening to ensure that it remains targeted on solvent and productive
activities. Third, BCM will, with foreign assistance, formulate uniform
accounting procedures for use by all Mauritanian banks in order to facili-
tate supervision and improve the assessment of their financial performance.
Fourth, although the interest rate adjustments in 1985 kept rates positive,
the Government and BCM will, in consultation with the IMF and the
Association, improve in 1988 the structure and the review procedure to make
long term deposits attractive.
37.       Before October 1987, a new banking law will be enacted to ensure
the independence of primary banks vis-a-vis BCM and of BCM vis-a-vis
Government. With regard to banking regulations, the new law will adjust
those currently enforced to improve the banks' management and compliance
with sound financial practice. Consultations with the IMF and the
Association will take place prior to implementing the new regulations and
banks' prudential ratios. At the beginning, minimal ratios will reflect
what new management should achieve to improve each bank's balance sheet and
ensure financial viability. Then, objective ratios with a time frame will
be agreed upon (see below).
38.       Strengthening of the Central Bank - BCM.  In May 1987, the BCM
transferred all its shareholdings in commercial banks to the State in order
to restore its independence from them and its ability to enforce financial
policies and control banks' activities. The IMF will continue to provide
technical assistance to help improve BCM's organization and procedures.
BCM's main departments subject to reform are: the Control Commission in
charge of banks' supervision, the "Centrale des Risques" in charge of
collecting information on risks attached to credits over a certain limit,
and an Information Department to be created to provide banks with
information on their clients' financial position. Special attention will
be given to providing the Bank Control Department, under adequate technical
assistance and supervision, with efficient operating procedures and skilled
personnel.
39.       Restructuring of Individual Banks.  The new banking regulations
to be enacted before the end of 1987 will be applied to all primary banks,
to be restructured or not. The restructuring program aims at consolidating
and transforming banks into viable institutions. To that end, the Govern-
ment has agreed that the banks' ownership and management should be left to
the private sector, local and foreign, except for a development finance
institution, for which the State would remain the majority shareholder.
Returning banks to a long-term viable position and increasing private
participation in their capital will require a significant improvement of
their balance sheets before the banks' assets can be sold. To that end,
the Government has agreed that it must accept responsibility for all the



- 12 -
State's financial obligations as shareholder, as owner of indebted compa-
nies, and as guarantor of non-performing credits. Its financial obliga-
tions could mostly be covered by the cancellation of outstanding
refinancing of banks by the Central Bank, which will be compensated by
Treasury bonds. During the restructuring phase, the Government will sign a
cession agreement with new owners and a "contract-program" with each bank;
both documents will ensure that the banks are viable and managed
professionally. The Central Bank will have a vital role in supervising the
implementation of the measures agreed in each document; in October 1987, it
will enact a by-law fixing the appropriate financial ratios to be respected
by all banks.
40.       Of the seven Mauritanian financial institutions, two (BMDC and
FND) will be merged into a development bank. Two others (BIMA and SMB)
will be sold after their balance sheets are improved; already a group of
private Mauritanian investors as well as foreign banks have shown interest
in taking themt over. There is good evidence that these interests are
serious and that the parties concerned have the capacity to take over
effectively. A fifth bank, BMCI, was bought by a group of Mauritanian
merchants in November 1986; it has already started its own restructuring
plan. The last two institutions are not considered to need restructuring.
Improving balance sheets for the banks to return to a long-term viable
position will require the following steps:
(a) For all banks, the Government will offset bad debts from
state-owned enterprises against liabilities of the banks to the
Central Bank and possibly part of equity belonging to the State.
(b) For the four banks to be restructured, the Government will take
over debts to foreigners, due and unpaid. Outstanding foreign
debts will be negotiated with the new shareholders.
(c) For the two banks, BIMA and SMB, where the non-state shareholders
are in a majority, the remaining debts from non-state enterprises
will be sold at a discount to be negotiated as part of the
cession agreement. In this agreement, new shareholders will have
to inject enough fresh equity to enable the restructured banks to
meet, in due course, the banking law regulation and financial
ratios.
(d) For the new Development Bank, the merging of FND/BMDC will be
undertaken by the Government with possible private minority
shareholders. The balance sheet will be restructured like for
the other two banks. The contract-program (see below) will also
ensure that management has full decision-making autonomy and full
accountability in day-to-day operations. The financial institu-
tions which opened credit lines to BNDC and FND will be consulted
on the conditions of their merging and the future operations of
the new Development Bank.
41.       All the banks, existing or restructured, will sign a con-
tract-program with the Government and the BCM which will include provisions
to secure adequate management, streamline personnel, install sound



- 13 -
procedures and a proper system of accounting, and meet the regulation and
management ratios required by the banking law. These ratios will be fixed
by BCM taking into account the state of the newly restructured balance
sheets. The maximum time allocated to banks to meet these ratios should
not exceed 18 months. Each bank will be tied to an implementation program
with technical assistance, if required. This assists . should be provided
by foreign financial institutions either as shareholders or through manage-
ment contract. The BCM will prepare special regulations for the Islamic
Bank.
42.       Implementation of the reform program should not exceed one year.
The first phase of preparing the cession agreements for BIMA and SMB and
the merging agreement for END and BMDC and estimating the financial cost
for the Government is now actively underway. Before the end of 1987, all
banks should have their new owners in control. The second phase of negoti-
ating the contract-programs will start in June 1987 and will be concluded
before the end of the year, once the Central Bank has enacted its by-law.
Three high-level experts selected with the Association's agreement will
supervise the implementation of the whole reform program. One will be in
charge of implementing the supervision procedures and regulations
concerning the Control Department of the BCM (para. 38) and the primary
banks. A second will prepare the cession agreements and contract-programs
and help the new shareholders abide by the the banking law regulations. A
third will assist the Government in the negotiations with private investors
and foreign financial institutions. All cession agreements and
contract-programs and their satisfactory conclusion and implementation will
be closely supervised by the Association and the IMF.
D. Energy Sector
43.       Mauritania ie entirely dependent on oil imports to satisfy its
energy needs, except for fuel wood. The latter is almost depleted, with
dramatic environmental consequences in terms of the impact on
desertification 3/. As for renewable energy (wind and solar), appropriate
technologies have not been found at an affordable cost. Studies carried
out under an IDA credit for oil exploration development have demonstrated
that there are some prospects for discovering commercial oil in Mauritanian
waters. But these are for the longer term. Meanwhile, even though the
recent drop in world oil prices alleviates the cost of imported fuel in
foreign exchange (equivalent to 10 percent of merchandise imports), the
Government attaches priority to the optimal use of energy products.
44.       A comprehensive sector strategy was prepared in June 1986 based
on the Energy Assessment Report (No. 5224-MAU of April 1985) cofinanced
with UNDP and the studies designed to complement this report. This
3/   Reforestation projects are extremely expensive, complex to organize
and difficult to maintain. To cut costs, food-for-work programs are
used, with priority being given to protecting urbanized and
cultivated/irrigated zones from desertification.



- 14 -
strategy involves energy product pricing, power tariff setting, a pollcy
for oil product distribution, and an assessment of the role and financial
viability of the public sector.
45.       In November 1986, the Government adopted a policy statement on
energy pricing and oil product marketing based on import parity and full
cost pricing with a liberalized distribution system. Steps are already in
progress to implement a comprehensive action program focusing on pricing,
supply policy, investments, institutions, and restructuring of the main
public enterprises. The first step, taken in April 1987, was to implement
a new energy price structure in which all import and distribution opera-
tions had been priced at their real cost. An existing levy to help the
state-owned petroleum importing and marketing company, (SMCPP), cover its
financial imbalances, was eliminated. Quarterly revisions of the import
tax will ensure that windfall profits from oil import prices are channeled
to the central budget. Partial duty draw back on fuel oil prices will help
keep export-oriented activities competitive. In May 1987, the Government
took the second step by opening the import and distribution system of
products to all oil companies willing to do business in Mauritania.
Following an ongoing study financed by the Bank, a third step will be to
prepare, by early 1988, a comprehensive revision of electricity tariffs
taking into account future sfi,ply costs and the promotion of domestic and
export industries. A fourth step, to be carried out in 1988, will consist
of defining an overall strategy to promote the use of household
energy-saving technologies. The necessary studies are in progress. The
Government has already agreed to eliminate all subsidies on gas. In
January 1987, it removed those on large gas bottles, which benefitted the
high-income groups; in July 1987, with the opening of a new gas-bottling
plant, butane will be priced at its real cost.
46.       To help implement these policy objectives, the public sector is
being restructured as follows. The refinery (SOMIR) is now leased to an
Algerian company which will supply products for domestic use at world price
equivalents. SMCPP, which has until now enjoyed a de facto monopoly on
imports, will share importing and retail distribution with private firms
but retain the responsibility of ensuring that no break occurs in the
country's supply. It will be audited before July 1987, and a financial and
management restructuring plan will be adopted after consultation with the
Bank. One state-owned oil transport company (STPN) is reviewing its
activities to allow competition with private transport companies. The
electricity/water company (SONELEC) faces a critical financial situation
and needs emergency measures until 1990, when the new power plant in
Nouakchott is expected to reduce production costs. To meet the immediate
financial squeeze, several measures have already been implemented; they
include (i) improving bill collection; (ii) cutting labor cost (personnel
has already been reduced by 10 percent); (iii) a tariff rationalization (20
percent increase in August 1986 and 10 percent in July 1987); and (iv) an
increase in the Government's equity to be partly financed with the windfall
profits from oil imports. In May 1987, a new gas-bottling plant has
started operations in Nouakchott. Consistent with the Government's overall
policy towards the public sector (para. 30), the majority of the plant will
belong to non-state partners, and management capability will be developed
with Algerian technical assistance.



- 15 -
E. Agriculture and Food Policy
47.       Largely because of natural conditions, local food production in
Mauritania is small, supplying from 10 to 30 percent of requirements,
depending on weather conditions. Desertification has decimated nomadic
livestock and limited rainfed agriculture to a small zone in the South.
The resulting large cereal deficits have been met through commercial
imports (approximately 40 percent of domestic demand) and increasing
amounts of food aid (up to 50 percent). Mauritania also faces the danger
of a meat deficit. This deficit, however, can be prevented or reduced
through improved herd management and animal husbandry; the Government is
implementing important reforms in these areas (para. 63). Although the
scope for increasing agricultural production is severely limited by
physical constraints, some expansion in production can be achieved through
improved cultural techniques (such as planned flood-recession) and, over
the longer term, through irrigated farming in the south. The Association
is helping the Government to prepare a master plan for developing the
Senegal River Basin and to coordinate investment activities in this region.
A first phase will develop 10,000 irrigated hectares (roughly doubling the
irrigated area) and 20,000 hectares of flood recession areas. When the
plan is substantially completed in early 1988, a donor sector meeting will
be convened to agree on the main follow-up steps required.
48.       The expansion of irrigation can ease the food deficit over the
long run. Although costly, it is, nevertheless, an alternative that
Mauritania cannot ignore. It requires, however, a careful definition of
pricing and marketing policies. An IDA-financed cereal sector study,
completed in May 1987, includes an analysis of the cost structure of
producer and consumer prices which will help the Government define, by
October 1987, price and tax levels and a marketing system that meet the
following objectives. On one hand, to increase production in irrigated
areas in the early years, producer prices must be kept remunerative; as in
Senegal this requires significant protection during the period when
efficiency in irrigated farming is being improved. On the other hand, the
low purchasing power of most consumers imposes a need to keep consumer
prices affordable. Thus, while a tax on imports is appropriate to protect
producers over a transition period, it should be kept modest in order not
to inflate consumer prices unduly. In addition, food prices should take
into account pricing policies in neighboring countries in order to avoid an
undue diversion of local supplies to them. With regard to marketing, the
Government has formulated a'strategy for increasing the participation of
private traders in the distribution system for food products, including
food aid. Although the Gevernment will scale down its intervention, in
order to ensure food security, it wishes to retain a network of regional
food distribution centers. Any Government intervention, however, will be
designed and periodically reviewed in close cooperation with donors (in
particular, USAID and the FRG assistance) to assure efficient distribution
to all regions, while maximizing private sector participation in this
activity. A better targeted pricing and marketing policy is a key element
of a coherent food strategy. The Association, although not a food aid
donor, is providing assistance to speed up the implementation of the
elements of the strategy set out below.



- 16 -
49.       Annual Food Programming.  Each year. the Government will estimate
the total cereal deficit, the affordable level of commercial imports and
the need of food aid. At the same time, it will agree with donors on an
appropriate allocation of this aid among sales, food-for-work programs, and
free distribution. This annual process, which started in December 1986,
calls for agreement between the Government and donors on expected deficits
by main regions, limiting free distribution to the truly needy, increase in
food-for-work (FFW) programs, need for counterpart funds from sales, and a
storage policy to meet unexpected shortages adequately.
50.       Food Aid Accountability.  The Food Security Commission (CSA) will
improve its budgeting and accounting capacity by adopting a new financial
management system and procedures, improving staff training, and making more
effective use of technical assistance. Based on a Bank-financed consul-
tant's recommendations discussed in November 1986, CSA will implement a
first set of budgeting and accounting reforms in 1987. Annual provisional
budgets (in the context of consolidated budget procedures, para. 21) will
be presented to the donor community for approval and financing, fixing the
level of counterpart funds available to finance development activities once
CSA's operating costs are covered.
51.       Improved Institutional Framework.  With a new food pricing
structure and food aid policy, the roles of all public sector institutions
(SONIMEX, CSA) involved in food distribution will be redefined before the
end of 1987. SONIMEX, the only importer of rice, tea, and sugar, will keep
its monopoly 4/, but annual audits starting in 1987 will ensure that
proper procedures are applied. The CSA has been successful in handling
large quantities of food aid. Donors give high marks to the Government for
having avoided any famine in the country. However, CSA needs to streamline
its organization to cope with its responsibilities in implementing food
policy and to limit its intervention in food marketing to supervising food
aid distribution, particularly emergency cases, and keeping a stabilization
role with respect to local production by guaranteeing a floor price for
local products and a ceiling price for final products at a limited number
of centers. Cereal processing, transport and marketing of food aid will be
relinquished to the private sector.
52.       Using Food Aid for Promoting Rural Development.  In November
1986, a Decree established a Common Fund (CF) to coordinate the use of
counterpart funds generated from food aid sales. This Fund was created
after lengthy contacts between the Government and most food aid donors.
Though based on similar schemes in Mali and Senegal, the CF in Mauritania
has a wider field of intervention; it will allocate additional counterpart
revenues to projects aimed at promoting domestic production, improving food
availability and nutritional status, and generating other rural or urban
activities. Donors have accepted that the CP program will cover a portion
4/   This monopoly is explained by the fact that these three food
commodities are imported under Government-to-Government agreements at
low prices. SONIMEX is not involved in local distribution.



- 17 -
of CSA's operating costs until the central tudget can take them over. The
Fund will also contribute to the Government's consolidated investment
budget and be coordinated with other action programs, particularly communi-
ty-based programs, FFW activities, and investment projects financed direct-
ly by donors. The CSA budget and a CF program of about US$4 million for
1987 were discussed for the first time by Government and donors at the CF
Donor-Government Joint Committee in April 1987. Besides seeking to impose
greater accountability on the CSA, the Government will give priority in
1987 to implementing an institutional framework and programming process for
Food-for-Work (FFW) activities.
F. Fisheries Sector
53.       As the largest source of foreign exchange, only the fisheries
sector can provide significant impetus to the economy in the short and
medium term. The main policy issue arises from the enclave character of
most operations in this sector. A strategy of maximizing the benefits
accruing to the economy, which was adopted in 1979, did lead to larger
gross export and budgetary revenues and a fast growing fleet owned by
nationals which accounts for about half of the production in the fisheries
sector, but it did not achieve greater integration of fishing activities
into the rest of the economy.
54.       A report on the long-term sectoral issues, prepared by an IDA
consultant in July 1985, identified a set of basic studies required to
define a comprehensive strategy and an action program. In November 1985,
the Kuwait Fund took the lead in financing these basic studies and related
feasibility studies; other financing came from IDA and the CCCE. The basic
studies concentrated on seven areas of interest: overall situation of the
sector, domestic market, resource management, surveillance, training,
institutional aspects and economic framework, and integrated development.
Analysis and recommendations were thoroughly discussed in August 1986 and
March 1987.
55.       Based on these studies, a clearly articulated, long-term strategy
was identified and adopted by the Government in April 1987. This strategy
establishes the level of fishing capacity and type of fleet appropriate to
Mauritanian waters; it also includes the priority actions to be taken by
the Government and investment projects to be promoted. Fishing capacity
will be carefully monitored through an annual system of fishing permits to
limit the authorized fleet to a capacity compatible with the fishing
resources. Because of evidence that the level of overfishing has been
reached for many species, the maximum fishing quotas will be lowered. This
requires a well-defined fisheries resource management, including an annual
system for granting fishing permits, adequate research capabilities to
monitor the fisheries resource trends, and a strong surveillance system.
Because of the risk of overfishing, the Government intends to give priori-
ty to the fleet registered in Mauritania by reducing the number of licensed
and chartered vessels and to the promotion of production systems which
increase the net national value added. This new strategy could face strong
opposition from Mauritanian investors, who do not accept that there is a
risk of overfishing, and from powerful foreign companies used to more
lenient conditions. Because of the limited number of permits allowed, the



- 18 -
Government will, at a second stage of strategy implementation, define
allocation procedures (such as auction) to capture the maximum rent while
selecting the most efficient fishermen. For successful implementation, the
strategy will require the full support of all donors, in particular those
from countries which have fisheries ventures in Mauritania. These issues
and an investment program will be presented at a Donor Sector Meeting
scheduled for early 1988; five donors (Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, CCCE, FAO
and the Bank Group) agreed to finance the required preparatory studies at
a meeting in Nouakchott in March 1987.
56.       Already, the Government has taken preliminary steps to strengthen
fisheries resource management capability. First, it limited new fishing
permits in 1987 to new local vessels which, because of better performance
can advantageously replace licensed, chartered or existing local vessels.
Second, it started to staff a surveillance unit. In past years, the
surveillance system has not been able to establish efficient control. The
present system is being revamped to include new types of pAtrol vessels and
aircraft with appropriate personnel training and maintenance. Considerable
benefit should accrue from a newly-created one-command structure in
Nouadhibou in charge of implementing the new surveillance system; it will
establish a new reporting system involving fishing logs, declarations of
landings and a computerized data base for use by all interested agencies,
in particular those dealing with research. This will help to carry out a
better assessment of the stock and the impact of fishing permits and
licensing policies. Based on studies financed by CCCE, the Nouadhibou port
facilities will be reorganized without building new major infrastructure;
instead, relocation will be accompanied by improvements to unloading
methods and changes in managing the Port Authority and the labor force.
The public enterprise in charge of operating the port will be restructured.
Developing a private Mauritanian fleet (by mixing small-size trawlers with
artisanal and ice boats to supply on-shore facilities in Nouadhibou)
requires: (i) a careful assessment of the impact in terms of net fiscal and
foreign revenues; and (ii) an adjustment of the incentive system (energy
products delivered at international competitive prices, non-penalizing
taxation, adequate credit facilities). But even with adjusted taxation and
foreign exchange rates, a share of existing on-shore processing and
freezing capacity, often managed by joint ventures, will have to be
restructured, privatized or closed; this process will be part of a second
phase of the adjustment program. The Association will focus its assistance
on the surveillance system, a new fiscal and incentive framework, a
training program and a coherent investment program.
G.   Private Sector Promotion
57.       The Recovery Program, drawing lessons from past failures in
promoting viable public enterprises, put forward a new strategy to develop
the private sector, which is expected to stimulate the economy in the
longer term. However, under present economic conditions and in view of the
limited pool of private entrepreneurship, it will be difficult to promote
industrial production at a fast pace. In the years ahead, the role of
private entrepreneurs can be viewed from several perspectives: the possi-
bility of developing technologies better adapted to the country's market
and resource endowment; the promotion of employment at a time when the



- 19 -
public sector is streamlining its labor force; the mobilization of savings,
in particular from Mauritanians abroad; the integration of agriculture with
the rest of the economy, through the establishment of agrobusinesses and
ancillary services; and, more generally, the provision of an economic base
for urban and regional development. A faster development of private
enterprises, however, requires a complete reform of the incentive system
and the institutional arrangements, particularly for small-enterprise
promotion. Financed by the second IDA Credit (1572-MAU) for industrial and
artisanal development in Mauritania, technical assistance is being provided
to the Ministry of Industry to review the current policies and institution-
al set-up, estimate existing eff.ctive protection, and recommend changes
and revisions in it. A first report is due in June 1987. Based on this
report, the Government will decide on a set of policy reforms before
December 1987. IDA-financed technical assistance will help implement the
appropriate reform measures.
58.       In the LDP, the Government has accepted to focus on the incentive
system and policy measures that impact on the development of private
investment in small and medium enterprises (SME). This will only be a key
step towards addressing all the issues to define a comprehensive trade and
pricing policy. The Association, in cooperation with the IMF, will
continue its dialogue towards such a policy (para. 83), and has, for 1987
and 1988, already agreed on a set of policy reforms, the IMF focusing on
fiscal and foreign exchange control issues. First, the Investment Code
will be revised before the end of 1987 and further improved to stimulate
private investment, and especially joint ventures. (In 1985, benefits were
extended to all investments regardless of their size.) The improvement
envisaged will aim at encouraging labor-intensive and export-oriented
projects and the use of local resources by reducing tariff duty exemptions
on imported raw materials. A draft Investment Code should be ready for
discussion with the Association in October 1987. Second and as regards the
tariff system, the objective is to gradually replace the relatively high
level of protection by a uniform and moderate level of protection in order
to reduce distortions in the allocation of resources and foster
productivity. Third, the import licensing system will be progressivelv
abolished and quantitative restrictions on imports removed. Fourth, prices
will be gradually de-controlled 5/. A first reduction in the number of
products with fixed prices was implemented in March 1986; a second one will
be implemented in 1987 by shifting products from the administered price
category to the fixed-margin one and from fixed-margin to free pricing.
5/   Price fixing policy is limited to a list of 8 key products that the
Government considers essential for household consumption (compared to
13 in 1985); the objective is to limit this list to cereal and energy
products. Ad valorem margins are imposed on goods produced locally with
de facto monopoly; the objective is to dismantle these monopolies
progressively and, by liberalizing imports, to eliminate the need for
imposing fixed margins.



- 20 -
59.       Institutional Set-up for SME Promotion.  To accompany these
changes in the incentive system, specific meaures need to address institu-
tional and other impediments to private SME development which might exist
such as labor laws and the absence of technical training. The technical
assistance provided by the Association will help the Government identify
and implement the various measures required during 1988. To that end,
assistance to local entrepreneurs for project promotion and management is
being reassessed to avoid duplication, ensure more efficiency within each
institution involved and improve cooperation between them. In addition to
streamlining the organizational set-up for SME promotion, the procedures
used by intermediaries to appraise projects will be standardized and
simplified. Other actions will take into account the need to develop
credit facilities and other forms of direct assistance to prospective
entrepreneurs, including assistance for training, and to improve management
capacity.
PART III - ECONOMIC, FINANCTAL ANqD SOCIAL IMPACT
60.       The 1985-88 Recovery Program included macroeconomic projections,
prepared with assistance from the Bank, which demonstrated the need for
reducing external and internal imbalances. A revised set of projections is
presented in Annex III and summarized in Table 2.
A.  Growth Prospects and Prerequisites
61.       During the first half of the 1980s, GDP at factor cost was
severely affected by droughts and low iron ore exports. During the struc-
tural adjustment period (1986-89) and up to 1990, our projections assume a
recovery from previously low agricultural production and the beginning of
copper ore exploitation in 1989. This recovery underlies the GDP projec-
tion of 3.5 percent-p.a. for 1987-90; compared to average levels in
1979-81, when weather conditions were fair, the GDP level expected in 1990
would imply an annual growth rate of about 2 percent p.a. in real terms in
the 1980s 6/.
6/   Economic performance projected in Annex III incorporates the most
recent data available. Macroeconomic indicators are generally in line
with those presented to the Board in the Policy Framewnr1a Paper on
September 4, 1986. Prospects for exports are slightly rel6iced
(sluggish iron ore market and overfishing) triggering a !Awer GDP
growth rate (lower by 0.5 percent p.a. in 1987-89) and a higher
current account deficit (by US$ 7 million over the same period). The
liberalization and privatization policy has also induced a rebound in
private activities and thus, savings performance is improving at a
slower pace; the ratio of domestic savings to GDP reaching 9.4 percent
compared to 10.7 percent projected in the PEP.



- 21 -
Table 2. Macroeconomic Projections Summary
(Actual)  (Estimates)   (Projections)
1982-84    1985-86   1987-90 1991-95
Growth Rates (% p.a. in real terms)
GDP (at factor cost)                          -0.2         2.7        3.5       2.4
Primary                                     0.0         2.7 a/     2.5       2.7
Secondary                                   7.1        2.8         5.7 b/   1.8
Tertiary                                   -4.0         2.5        2.6       2.4
Exports of GNFS                               -0.5         8.4        4.2 bJ   1.6
Imports of GNFS                               -1.5        -2.8        2.6       1.9 k/
Percent of GDP (current, annual average)
Private Consumption                           82.2        76.0       72.9      70.7
Public Consumption                            21.1        14.9       13.9      14.3
Domestic Savings                              -3.3         9.0       13.2      15.0
Gross Investment c/                           33.6        22.6       22.6      19.7
Resource Balance                             -36.9       -13.6       -9.4      -4.7
Budgetary Savings                             -1.9         3.7        3.2       4.1
Overall Fiscal Deficit                        10.9         3.5        2.2       0.6
Current Account Balance d/                   -30.2       -18.2      -12.4      -5.1
Memorandum Items
ICOR                                           7.9         5.5 a/     6.5       8.3 I/
GDP per capita growth rate                    -1.0        -0.1        0.6      -0.3
Private per cap. consumption el               20.8        19.8       18.2      16.2
Debt Service Ratio (%)                        32.3        17.0 f/    40.3 i/  28.8 i/
Debt OutstandinR/G/P (%)                     167.5       190.0 f/   180.0    127.0
US$ Million (annual averages)
Current account balance                     -197.0      -121.0     -118.5    -65.9
Net private & direct investment               25.5         5.8       24.2      20.0
Official grants                               42.2        47.5       55.3      51.9
Projected loan disbursements g/              148.1        96.1      101.0 h/  97.3
Projected loan amortization                  -51.6       -42.0     -137.6 i/-122.2
Other financing required (net) j/             32.8       (13.6)      75.6      18.9
a/ Mainly a recovery from severe droughts in 1983-84.
b/ Including the copper mine opening in 1989.
cl Includes change in stocks.
d/ Excluding capital grants.
e/ Thousands of constant 1982 UM.
f/ After debt rescheduling in 1985 and 1986.
j/ Including new commitments for project financing only.
h/ Excluding SAL credits.
i/ Excluding new debt rescheduling after 1986.
I/ Before changes in foreign reserves, without rescheduling and before SAL.
k/ Reflecting the impact of a flexible exchange rate policy.
1/ Reflecting the impact of the irrigation investment program.
Source:  IMF and Bank staff estimates; for further detail, see Annex III.



- 22 -
62.       Taking the possibilities and constraints described below into
consideration, the Mauritanian economy is projected to grow at a rate of
about 2.5 percent p.a. after 1990, assuming reasonable weather conditions.
This is below the annual increase in population and therefore the objective
of a positive growth of consumption per capita in real terms (para. 15)
will not be achievable. In addition, given the weak resource base, it may
be difficult for Mauritania to sustain even this modest rate of economic
growth. After 1990, a continuous relief on debt accumulated before the
adjustment period, i.e., before 1985, will keep external accounts
manageable (para. 69).
63.       Long-term prospects look indeed precarious.  The only well
identified prospect for economic growth is in the fisheries sector. This
would come from better control of unauthorized fishing in Mauritanian
waters and greater integration of fishing activities into the domestic
economy (para. 55). Over the long term, however, expansion will be limited
because of the identified danger of overfishing, which, we expect, could
limit sectorial growth to 2.5 p,ercent p.a. over the next 10 years. The
feasibility of even this modest growth is to be confirmed through more
in-depth studies on the optimal volume compatible with renewable stocks by
species.
64.       The difficulty of assessing future growth potential is particu-
larly acute in the case of agriculture, especially with regard to livestock
and crop production. For livestock, past techniques brought about a
downward trend in output. A new policy is being implemented with assis-
tance under a project cofinanced by the ADB, OPEC Fund and IDA; the main
elements are to adjust the size and composition of the herd and to develop
pastoral cooperative associations. Through improved pasture management,
rigid cost recovery and elimination of cross subsidies, herdsmen should
adjust their herds to the most favorable combination of animals, in partic-
ular to resist the alternation of droughts and rains. The macroeconomic
impact of this new policy in terms of income and jobs is difficult to
assess at present. We project that livestock output will grow at 2 percent
p.a. after 1990; livestock will remain the sector with the largest contri-
bution to GDP. Prospects in dryland agriculture are also not well known,
and the long-term effects of desertification are poorly understood. There
is a need for more intercountry research to develop feasible rainfed
cropping techniques in the context of Sahelian agriculture. Irrigated
production depends on the number of hectares developed (or rehabilitated)
each year, and successful private sector promotion (farmers and ancillary
services). Around 1990, the use of water resources made available by the
Manantali and Diama dams in the Senegal Valley will become a key develop-
ment issue. Because large perimeters will be expensive to develop, improv-
ing flood recession irrigation would be a first step towards mastering
water use at acceptable costs for the economy. (See para. 47 on
agricultural policy.)
65.       The projections for other sectors are shaped by the  pote-tial
for exploiting Mauritania's natural resources, mainly iron ore. Production
of this commodity is projected to vary around 9.5 million tons at least
until 1995 (not significantly higher than the 9.3 million tons produced in
1985). As mentioned in para. 30, financial prospects for SNIM remain



- 23 -
uncertain because of poor world market prospects. Gypsum and copper output
will expand over the next three years but will rapidly level off after
1990. There is no new economically viable mining project in sight at
current world price prospects. In addition to the prospect for the
discovery of commercial oil, large reserves of phosphate rock along the
Senegal river could be commercially exploited if the world markets improve
in the 1990s for phosphate-based products. There is also some potential
for developing private, small-scale enterprises in food processing, urban
and rural services, trade and transport, encouraged by the reforms in the
incentive system described above (para. 57).
66.       Improve investment efficiency through better programming and
selection of projects. Adjusting the share of resources allocated to
public projects over the medium term will require a significant change in
public sector management (para. 22). In the short and medium term, quick
improvements in efficiency can be achieved by concentrating on maintenance
and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure or productive capacity. Soon
thereafter, however, the country will face the challenge of developing new
Investment projects (particularly in irrigation, communication and social
infrastructure). These projects, though needed, have longer gestation
period or less direct effects on growth. Consequently, investment effi-
ciency is expected to deteriorate from the relatively high level during the
adjustment program period; this is reflected in a projected relatively high
ICOR of around 8 after 1991 (Table 2).
67.       Improve the mobilization of domestic savings.  While Mauritania
restructures its consumption to a level commensurate with its means, the
capacity for rapid savings mobilization will remain limited. A
prerequisite is the complete restructuring of the banking system (para.
33). This could improve savings performance and credit availability for
the private sector somewhat during the adjustment period. Living standards
could be improved through innovative approaches to mobilize beneficiaries'
participation in projects affecting their environment, e.g., using
food-for-work programs (para. 52). With a current budget in balance after
1985 and public enterprise rehabilitation, total public savings (including
public enterprises) would cover a growing share of public projects
(equivalent to 22 percent in 1995 compared to 10 percent in 1986).
However, the estimated gross public savings after 1990 would be
insufficient to cover external debt service (before debt relief).
68.       Control current account deficits.  Despite the significant
devaluation of the ouguiya in real terms that has already taken place,
projections indicate that after 1988 Mauritania's export revenues will slow
down because of: (i) poor market prospects for iron ore; and (ii) the need
to regulate the growth of the only other export -- fisheries - in order
not to deplete resources. There are, however, possibilities for curbing
imports of goods and services further, in particular if weather conditions
remain normal, allowing increased food production and halting the migration
of the cattle to southern grazelands. Despite the limited prospects for
import substitutior, current account deficits should be stabilized over the
next four years. After this period of austerity, which will reduce the
ratio of total imports to GDP from 76 percent in 1985 to 61 percent in



- 24 -
1990, further reduction will become increasingly difficult, unless it is
accompanied by a further deceleration in GDP growth.
B.   Need for Foreign Assistance
69.       Mauritania has received extensive debt relief, which has kept the
actual debt service ratio at about 24 percent. The prospects for export
growth are such that no increase in the actual debt service ratio is
feasible if GNP growth (already projected below population growth) is not
to be reduced further. To avoid an increase in debt service payments,
further rescheduling of Mauritania's debt is essential, unless equivalent
amounts of additional grant financing become available. If the extended
terms under consideration by the Paris Club are approved, their application
to Mauritania would help to substantially reduce the prospective financing
gap. The magnitude of this gap can be illustrated by the fact that,
because of a growing debt burden, all foreign assistance disbursements
combined (transfers, grants and loans to finance investment projects) would
be absorbed by debt service obligations between 1987 and 1990 (including
maturities already rescheduled under the 1985 and 1986 Paris Club
agrecments and assuming no further rescheduling). Other possibilities such
as improving lending terms are limited, Mauritania's debt being already at
concessional terms. It should, moreover, be underlined that net total
amount of annual foreign aesistance required beyond 1986 will be less than
pre-1984 levels, i.e., before the adjustment period (Table 3), reflecting
Mauritania's effort to reduce its dependence on external capital.
70.       It shoild also be stressed that the aid effort required is
subject to significant uncertainties, as noted above. Our projections do
not reduce import demand from non-exporting sectors below the demographic
growth to avoid a long-term detrimental effect on the population. This is
why the monitoring of the social impact of stabilization and adjustment
programs will be strengthened (para. 73). In the Mauritanian context, even
if all the adjustment measures were rigorously implemented, they could not
guarantee that the economy will not be struck by an unforeseen shortage of
foreign exchange, Such a volatile situation, therefore, requires a close
coordination between the Government and the donors. There has been real
progress in streamlining and improving the selection of investment financ-
ing since the 1985-88 RP was published (para. 24), but shortcomings in
providing non-project financing were observed in 1986, in spite of the
donors' promises at the CG meeting in November 1985. Therefore, the
figures in Table 3 should be regularly discussed with donors at
Consultative Group meetings (para. 88) to mobilize adequate exceptional
financing, and require annual review and adjustment under IMF supervision.
71.       Because of an already high level of assistance, we assume that
the international community will maintain official transfers at present
levels (with the possible exception of food aid if required by a new cycle
of droughts). The investment program should also continue to be financed
with a majority of grants or loans exclusively on concessional terms. Based
on these assumptions, Mauritania's balance of payments will still require
exceptional assistance. The Government obtained a Third IMF Stand-by
arrangement of about US$10 million for 1987 on May 4, 1987. It should
negotiate a third rescheduling of external debt service payments at terms



- 25 -
Table 3.   External Assistance and Debt
(US$ million)
(Average)        (Est.)      (Average)
1982-84   1985    1986  1987-88    1989-95
Total net assistance                  189     139        119      113       79
mum       m- 
Gross assistance                      227     190        214      240      211
. public current transfers           (W-9    ( W        (41)     (44)     (50)
-  food aid                          17      31         17       15       20 c/
-  others                            32      23         24       29       30
. project aid                       (178)   (136)      (173)    (196)    (161)
-  grants                            30      41         68       54       52
-  loans disbursement               148      98         95      103       99
-  IV purchases (with SAY)            -      -3         10       14     -10 d/
-  SAL disbursements                  -       -          -       25        -
External Debt                         -68    -225       -185     -207    -161
7/o rescheduling)
 arrears (+*ncrease)                +30    -110          -         -      -
* debt service due                   -98    -115       -185      -207    -161
- loans before 1985                -98    -115       -177      -186    -118
- 1985-86 reschedulings               -       -        -8       -21     -38
-new loans                            -                  -        -      -5
Additional assistance needed           30     174         90       80       49
A. Net debt relief
(Paris Club terms) a/             -      137        80        65       7
. others b/                        30       37        10        15      42 e/
B. Net debt relief (more favorable)e/ -         -          -        -       35
. Others                            -        -         -         -      14
a/ Assuming terms similar to those granted in 1985 and 1986.
b/ Assistance needed to fill the financing gap (Table 4 in Annex III).
c| Assuming the same quantity of food aid over the next ten years,
increase in domestic demand being met by a recovery in domestic
production.
d/ Not including SAY and stand-by arrangements after 1988.
e/ Assuming that principal from the 1985/86 rescheduling will be
rescheduled and maturity and grace periods will be increased by 5
years.



- 26 -
similar to those obtained in 1985 and 1986. But, even with this
assistance, a gap of about US$40 million will remain in 1987 and in 1988.
In the following years, the Government expects to continue to benefit from
both stand-by arrangements with the IMF and further debt rescheduling
and/or exceptional assistance. Service payments on debt rescheduled
between 1985 and 1990 (estimated at about US$55 million p.s. after 1990)
will have to be financed by exceptional assistance after 1990 (possibly
further debt rescheduling or restructuring). 7/
C.   Social Impact
72.       The adjustment measures outlined above are critical to producing
an optimal environment for economic growth in the medium-term. Given
Mauritania's limited resource base and high population growth rate, it will
be necessary to exploit all potential for economic growth in the medium. and
long-term in order to reverse the downturn in real per capita income
experienced in recent years. This decline will inevitably continue
throughout the adjustment period, in which economic growth is realistically
estimated to average 2.5 percent per annum after 1990. Achieving even
these growth rates will depend on the success of the adjustment program and
the shortening of time lags in restructuring the public sector and estab-
lishing incentive systems for private sector initiatives. To mitigate the
negative impacts of the adjustment process, the SAL will focus on: (i)
food aid policy; (ii) reallocation of public investment and Government
current expenditures; (iii) employment generation and promotion of the
private sector; and (iv) increased collection and analysis of social
welfare data.
73.       Food aid policy (para. 47) is the pivotal element of the SAL
program for protecting the vost vulnerable groups in Mauritanian society,
for generating employment, and for mobilizing private savings for develop-
ment activities. Through annual food programming, the Government will more
accurately target food aid on the poorest segments of society and those
unable to work. Food-for-Work (FFW) projects will allow those in need of
food aid, but able to work, to participate in the development process and
accumulate assets. Increased sales of food aid will mobilize private
savings to finance development activities, including FFW projects. Better
targeting of food aid, and the development of a cereal pricing and market-
ing system which reflects real costs should help stem the tide of ru-
ral-urban migration and shift income into the rural sector.
74.       Public sector resources will be reallocated to provide basic
social services for a broader portion of society and to make the long-term
investment in human capital needed for sustained growth. Priority will be
given to allocating more budgetary resources to health and education under
7/  Mauritania already has the status of a Least Developed Country within
the framework of the ACP-EEC convention and under the United Nations
classification. The Government is seeking partial cancellation of
debt.



- 27 -
the strict constraint of balanced budgets (para. 19). Similarly, the
public investment program for 1985-88 has been reoriented relative to the
1981-84 program to provide a doubling of the share devoted to health and
education. In addition, there will be Increased emphasis on investment in
directly productive areas, most notably rural development and fisheries.
75.       Employment generation will be a critical need under the adjust-
ment program. Mauritania has a substantial pool of underemployed livestock
herders who have been displaced by years of drought. In addition, the
adjustment program and the administrative reform will entail staff reduc-
tions in certain public enterprises and commercial banks. Efforts will be
made immediately to ease the transition to other forms of employment
through job creation, retraining programs, and promotion of the private
sector. In the short-term, in addition to developing FFW projects in rural
and urban areas, the Government is helping the labor force recently dis-
missed from SNIM (para. 30) by providing opportunities to use their sever-
ance pay to buy equipment abroad or to resettle as private farmers in the
South. It intends also to increase special credit to help young techni-
cians or former public staff to create small businesses. A small fund
(FIRVA) is already providing this kind of credit through FND and will be
replenished. However, a coherent strategy can only be developed in the
medium-term, after further study and strengthening of support institutions.
The SAL program will promote artisanal fishing and the establishment of a
new Investment Code with improved incentive structures. Over the long-
er-term, it will support studies that will help the Government to eliminate
de facto monopolies and promote private sector competition, decontrol
prices, develop training programs, and establish credit lines for SME
development. Perhaps the most critical aspect for medium-term growth in
private sector activities is the reform and recapitalization of the banking
sector, which will substantially increase credit availability for both
small-and large-scale enterprises.
76.       A major constraint to understanding and responding to the social
Impacts of the SAL is the almost complete lack of micro-level data on
income levels and sources, consumption patterns, and access to social
services. There is insufficient data to identify and design operational
programs aimed at alleviating the adverse impact of structural adjustment
on vulnerable groups and at fostering the participation of the poor in the
process of economic growth over the longer term. Thus, the Government,
with financial support from IDA and USAID, is launching a living standards
measurement survey, and has requested that Mauritania be included in the
proposed Bank/UNDP multi-country project to examine the social dimensions
of structural adjustment. In the years to come, the project will assist
the Government to (i) develop and maintain data on income distribution and
consumption levels; (ii) study the socio-economic implications of structur-
al adjustment; and (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity to generate
data and identify compensatory programs. In addition to establishing a
permanent household survey system, the project will develop and update
social accounting matrices, analyze the evolution of socio-economic condi-
tions under SAL programs, and facilitate the development of policies and
programs to alleviate poverty, protect the most vulnerable groups in
society, and ease the necessary transitions of the adjustment period.



- 28 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS
A.   Financing
77.       We propose to support the Government's adjustment program with an
IDA Credit of US$15 million equivalent a Special Facility for Africa (SFA)
Credit of US$27.4 million equivalent, and Special Joint Financing
Facilities of US7.6 million equivalent to be disbursed in two tranches.
The first tranche of US$25.0 million equivalent would be available on
effectiveness, and the second tranche of US$25 million equivalent would be
released after the Government made satisfactory progress in implementing
the program and specifically in meeting the conditions listed in para. 82
below.
78.       We expect the Second Tranche review to be conducted before March
1988. The proposed credits would finance about 7.5 percent of the
merchandise import bill and 12 percent of the country's gross external
capital requirements over the 1987 and 1988 calendar years; the rest would
be met through grants, food aid, non-project and project financing from
bilateral donors (France, Germany, the United States, Saudi Arabia, and
Kuwait) and multilateral organizations (IMF, EEC, AFDB, AFESD and others).
The SAL program has been prepared in close collaboration with the IMF and
is consistent with the Policy Framework Paper discussed by the Board on
September 4, 1986.
79.       The adjustment program outlines a precise set of actions to
implement the second phase of the Recovery Program (covering 1987-88). The
Letter of Development Policy was prepared by the Government with
substantial technical assistance financed by IDA (Special Project
Prepa*ration Facility for the banking sector reform, Second Technical
Assistance Project for other sectors), and was reviewed by the IMF. The
Letter of Development Policy was drafted by a Committee headed by the
Minister of Economy and Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank with
the assistance of the Secretary General at the Presidency, other key
ministers (Rural Development, Fisheries, Industry), and the Commissioner
for Food Security. The document was discussed at its various stages of
elaboration by IDA missions, including the appraisal mission (July 1986).
It was approved by the Minister of Economy and Finance on May 1, 1987.
B.   Monitorable Actions
80.       The specific actions and measures supported by the proposed
credits, set out in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (An-
nex IV) are summarized in a matrix (Annex V).
81.       The following measures were taken by the Government during
preparation and prior to Board presentation:
(a) approving the legal framework and procedures for the introduction
and supervision of a consolidated public investment budget
(October 1986);



- 29 -
(b) adopting a public investment program for 1987 acceptable to IDA
(December 1986);
(c) initiating studies to strengthen economic management;
(d) creating a special unit to prepare an Administrative reform;
(e) strengthening the Central Bank control on doubtful debts recovery
and credit allocation;
(f) agreeing on the principles for restructuring two commercial banks
(SMB and BIMA), with a minority share being left to the State and
private investors taking the lead in these operations (March
1987);
(g) agreeing to merge two development finance institutions (BMDC and
PND) and prepare an agreement on capital allocation and manage-
ment procedures, within a "contract-program" with Government
(April 1987);
(h) agreeing with the IMP on an action program and technical assis-
tance to strengthen the Control Department at the Central Bank
and implement the reform modalities as agreed with IDA (April
1987);
(i) adopting a coherent strategy for the energy sector (November
1986);
(j) introducing a new price structure for petroleum products agreed
with IDA (April 1987);
(k) liberalizing import procedures for petroleum products (April
1987);
(1) establishing a Common Fund for projects financed with the coun-
terpart funds derived from the sale of food aid (November 1986);
(a) submitting an action program to restructure the Food Safety
Commission agreed with IDA (April 1987);
(n) adopting the main objectives of a strategy and an action program
for the fisheries sector (April 1987);
(o) reducing fishing permits in 1987 to avoid overfishing and desig-
nating high-level staff in charge of the new surveillance system
(April 1987).
82.       Disbursement of the Second Tranche will be contingent upon
satisfactory overall progress in implementing the SAL program and, in
particular, upon the following actions:
(a) agreeing with the Association on a public investment program for
1988-90 (para. 24) before December 1987;



- 30 -
(b) adopting a consolidated investment budget for 1988 satisfactory
to the Association by December 1987 (para. 21);
(c) adopting an action program satisfactory to the Association to
strengthen the capability of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
to implement all actions required under the Program (para. 29)
before March 1988;
(d) concluding agreements satisfactory to the Association: (i) with
private partners for the rehabilitation of four primary banks
(para. 49) before October 1987; and (ii) with all restructured
banks to determine conditions and modalities required for an
adequate conduct of their operations and a time frame for their
full compliance with all requirements presented by the Banking
Law (para. 41) before March 1988;
(e) enacting a new system for setting electricity tariffs
satisfactory to the Association (para. 45) by January 1988;
(f) agreeing with the Association on a restructuring program of SKCPP
(State-owned petroleum product distribution company) and
contract-programs for SMCPP and SONELEC (Power and Water Utility
Company) (para. 46) by December 1987;
(g) agreeing with the Association on cereal pricing and marketing
policies by October 1987 (para. 48);
(h) adopting an organization structure and management procedures
satisfactory to the Association for CSA (Food Security
Commission) (para. 51) by November 1987;
(i) agreement with the Association on an investment program for the
fisheries sector, and submission of an action-program
satisfactory to the Association to: (i) enhance the control of
fishing activities; and (ii) formulate a training program for the
fisheries sector (para. 56) by December 1987;
(j) enacting a revised Investment Code satisfactory to the
Association before December 1987 (para. 58);
(k) enacting revised tax regulations satisfactory to the Association
for fisheries operations, small businesses and SNIM (iron ore
company) before the end of 1987 (para. 18).
C. Next Phase for Adjustment Effort
83.       The above-listed monitorable actions and measures constitute the
first phase of a structural adjustment process that the Government is
determined to finalize before the end of 1987. The ongoing efforts to
strengthen institutional procedures, and economic management in general,
should gradually improve the efficiency of the Administration and the rest
of the public sector in implementing these measures. A second phase of the
adjustment process, backed up by a possible second SAL operation, could



- 31 -
deepen and expand some of the reforms which have been started focusing on
the agriculture (food production) and industry (SME) sectors. Two fields
of actions are already under investigation. The first is to Improve the
correspondence of budgetary expenditures to the overall development objec-
tives through: (i) a progressive adjustment of expenditures by sector so as
to meet the saving objectives, while improving education and health
services; (ii) a redefinition of the control and supervision procedures
applying to public enterprises and investment so as to make their relations
to Government finances more transparent; and (iii) strengthening of project
management in order to better integrate foreign-financed programs with
local programs and promote human resource development. The second field of
action is to intensify the liberalization of economic policies by further
decontrolling imports, foreign exchange and prices, increasing credit
allocation to local private entrepreneurs in all sectorss and improving
service delivery by promoting private entrepreneurs wherever possible.
Before these actions can be implemented, ongoing studies on the private
sector (para. 57) must provide a better indication of this sector's actual
capacity to adjust to a liberalized environment. It will also be necessary
to intensify economic research and planning in order to start an in-depth
dialog on long-term issues for the Mauritanian economy.
D. Management and Administration
84.       The structural adjustment program will be implemented by the
various government departments and agencies dir6ctly responsible for the
specific reforms, under the overall responsibility of the Minister of
Economy and Finance. The Minister of Economy and Finance chairs the
Interministerial Committee (Comit6 de Suivi), established at the beginning
of 1986 with the mandate for coordinating and supervising implementation of
the Government's 1985-88 Recovery Program. The President has directed that
all new projects requiring foreign financing with a public guarantee must
be approved by this Committee. In addition to the Minister of Economy and
Finance, the Committee includes the Governor of the Central Bank and the
Chief of Staff at the Presidency. The Interministerial Committee reports
to the Council of Ministers and the President. To monitor and control the
day-to-day execution of the program, the Government has established a
Technical Support Committee (Comit6 Tech ique d'Appui) which acts as a
permanent secretariat for the Interministerial Committee. The Association
has agreed that, in order to strengthen the analytical capability of the
Technical Committee, part of the IDA Credit for Development Management (see
Part V) will finance short-term consultants and specific studies.
85.       The economic departments are implementing an appropriate informa-
tion system (Tableaux de bord) which will help them prepare regular reports
on the execution of the Recovery Program, and economic and financial
prospects. The annual report on execution is now attached to the draft
consolidated budget. A major constraint is the lack of basic economic and
social data to monitor the impact of the restructuring measures. Some of
these needs will be addressed by the planned household surveys (para. 76).
86.       These institutional arrangements will ensure timely monitoring of
the adjustment program. In addition, the Government will review every
month with the Association (through meetings between the Minister of



- 32 -
Economy and Finance and the Bank Resident Representative in Nouakchott) the
State of the SAL Implementation and the adequacy of these monitoring
arrangements in the light of experience. The Association's supervision and
monitoring process would include at least one public expenditure review in
October 1987 and two supervision missions during the life of the project.
E. Coordination with the IMF and Other Donors
87.       The Government's Structural Adjustment Program has been prepared
in consultation with the IMF, and there has been close collaboration
between Bank Group and Fund staff, both in Washington and Nouakchott. The
IMF is providing technical assistance to the Central Bank (banking sector
reform and debt management, in particular) and to the Ministry of Economy
and Finance (consolidated budget). More generally, the IMF is providing
assistance and discussing implementation steps under a SAF policy framework
and stand-by arrangement programs and in close cooperation with the Bank
Group.
88.       The need for a permanent and well organized system of consulta-
tions between the Government and the main donors was recognized by the
Consultative Group at the first meeting held in November 1985. Since the
CG meeting, the Resident Mission of the Bank Group has played an active
role in promoting regular exchange of information among the various donors'
field missions; in particular, more attention has been paid to donor
coordination on food policy (para. 52). In addition, the Bank Group will
help the Government prepare donor sector meetings; three are under active
preparation: fisheries, to be convened in January 1988, irrigation in April
1988, and water supply in late 1988. Before December 1987, the Government
will update the Economic Recovery Program and prepare a 1988-90 investment
program with assistance from the Bank Group. These documents will be
submitted to the second CG meeting, tentatively scheduled for 1988.
F. Procurement, Disbursements and Retroactive Financing
89.       The proposed Credits will finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of
eligible imports (excluding luxury consumer goods, defense items and goods
intended for military use). Financing of imports of petroleum products and
foodstuffs will not exceed US$10 million of the disbursements under the
credits respectively. Direct imports by Government require international
competitive bidding for contracts above US$1.0 million and three price
quotations for goods under US$1.0 million to be eligible. Imports by the
private sector will be in accordance with normal commercial practices in
Mauritania, which are acceptable to the Association. Retroactive financLng
of up to a total of US$5.0 million will be permitted for imports taking
place prior to Credit Signature but after March 31, 1987. Contracts for
imports of less than US$ 10,000 in value will not be eligible for
financing.
90.       To facilitate disbursement and procurement, two special accounts
will be established at the Central Bank in the name of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance: one for the IDA Credit and the other for the SFA
Credit. Upon Credit effectiveness, the Association will make an initial
disbursement of US$5.0 million into each account. These accounts will be



-33 -
replenished regularly up to the limit of the first tranche on the basis of:
(i) fully documented reimbursement applications for import contracts
exceeding US$100,000; and (ii) statement of expenditures for import items
between US$10,000 and US$100,000. Disbursement applications will be
aggregated with a minimum for replenishment application of US$500,000. To
the extent possible, proceeds of the SFA Credit would be disbursed first.
91.       The proceeds of the proposed credits will be disbursed in two
tranches as follows:
(a) a first tranche of US$21 million equivalent from the SFA
Credit and US$4 million from the IDA Credit, will be
available upon effectiveness; and
(b) a second tranche of US$25 million equivalent, representing
the balance of funds from the IDA and SPA Credits and the
funds from the SJF Credits, will be made available 1988
after a satisfactory review of performance under the program
scheduled for early 1988, and provided that the conditions
in para. 82 above have been fulfilled.
G. Benefits
92.       The Government's wide-ranging structural adjustment program
should allow for better exploitation of its natural and mineral resources,
more efficient management of the public sector, and better utilization of
food aid. The emphasis on increasing rural and fisheries incomes should
lead to improvements in the standard of living of the majority of the
population. The improved macroeconomic policies and planning processes
should contribute to increase the productivity of public investment and,
with the attention given to improved public management, should enable the
economy to better withstand adverse changes in the international environ-
ment, such as the recent sharp decline in iron ore prices and, even, a new
cycle of droughts.
93.       The adjustment effort should also have a positive impact on
promoting Mauritania's human resources, in particular, on increasing the
contribution of the increasing pool of well-trained young graduates. Also,
the large Mauritanian community abroad, especially in West Africa, may be
induced to transfer home some of its savings (and skill), which can lead to
the financing of new domestic ventures. In that context, the pragmatic
approach now being taken by the Government on the issue of the respective
roles of public and private sectors, the new and more liberal policy
environment and incentive system, and the restructuring of the banking
sector are key and promising elements. For example, groups of private
Mauritanians have agreed to mobilize fresh money to help restructure some
of the banks (para. 40).
H.   Risks
94.       The Banking Sector Reform.  This reform is essential to provide
all the productive sectors access to reliable banking services, credit and



- 34 -
assistance for financial management. Nevertheless, although the restruc-
turing of all banks is urgent, the complexity and magnitude of the measures
to be taken could easily cause delays. Although this would rtot compromise
the adjustment program, some of the dynamic effects on private sector
promotion would also be postponed.
95.       Agricultural Production.  The medium-term prospects outlined
above are based on the assumption of an "average" level of rainfall. They
also assume that grasshopper infestation can be controlled, thanks to
effective FAO-coordinated aid. Food aid is assumed to continue as needed
in case these assumptions do not materialize (para. 49). Varying degrees
of uncertainty attach to all of these assutptions.
96.       External Trade and Public Finance Deficits.  Iron ore and fish
exports will continue to account for more than 95 percent of officially
recorded export value and export diversification remains an elusive
objective. In this context, the prospects for controlling external and
fiscal deficits are jeopardized by the following two factors. First, world
marketing conditions threaten the stability of iron ore export receipts
(para. 65). Second, the new fisheries policy by limiting licences will
hurt some powerful foreign companies which may retaliate in different ways,
in particular by cutting royalties accruing to the Government. Based on
the Bank's commodity price forecast, the current low prices of Mauritania's
main imports (oil, rice, sugar, etc.) and fair prices for fisheries are
assumed to prevail over the adjustment program period and terms of trade to
improve slightly. Nonetheless, Mauritania is highly vulneral'.e to world
prices.
97.       Private Sector Growth.  Another important risk with respect to
the adjustment process concerns the possibility of weaker than projected
responses from the private sector. As noted earlier, the Government's
liberalization and incentive programs should send a positive signal to the
private sector (para. 57). Private investors have already expressed their
confidence in the Government's willingness to encourage private initiative,
in particular by taking over two of the commercial banks. However, the.
actual results could be limited because of Mauritania's poor international
comparative advantage and the small size of the economy. Moreover, a time
lag is to be expected between public sector compression and private sector
development.
98.       Implementation Capacity.  Despite the Government's determination
to carry out the program, the Administration's ability to implement the
program may not fully match its commitment to reform. The provision of
training programs and technical assistance, actively being planned, should
substantially alleviate this risk. In particular, a Third Technical
Assistance project for strengthening economic management should be final-
ized in September 1987. It will include a component dealing specifically
with the restructuring of the Ministry of Economy and Finance with a focus
on the capacity for controlling the implementstion of the monitorable
action program, the public investment program and key sectoral strategies
and policies. This project, financed by IDA, will be closely coordinated
with similar projects prepared by UNDP and the French aid agency.



- 35 -
99.       Political Risk.  The Government has, up to now, shown a strong
determination to implement the stabilization measures negotiated with the
IMP and the structural reforms outlined in the Recovery Program. It is
fully aware of the country's strong dependency on foreign assistance for
overcoming its financial Imbalances and implementing a viable economic and
social development strategy. That assistance will be forthcoming only if
the country continues to demonstrate a strong commitment to austerity and
reform. The immediate social effects of these reforms, however, are
triggering growing tensions among the population, particularly urban public
employees and young graduates, who perceive reduced public sector employ-
ment opportunities. Because of its recent performance, the current Govern-
ment deserves to be helped in its efforts to implement essential reforms.
This would be very much facilitated if aid donors intensified their cooper-
ation and coordination with the Government, and among themselves, in this
endeavor.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN M&URITANIA
100.      To date, the Bank Group has had 24 operations in Mauritania for a
total of US$270 million. Of these, three are Bank loans for iron ore
mining operations (US$66 million to MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million to
SNIM in 1979 for the Guelbe Iron Ore Project and US$20 million for SNIM's
rehabilitation in 1985). The other 21 are IDA credits totalling US$124.1
million. Of the IDA operations, five have been in the transport sector,
eight in the rural sector, two for education, two for technical assistance
to economic planning and one for technical assistance to the rural sector,
and there have been separate projects for urban and rural development,
public enterprise rehabilitation, artisan and industrial development, and
petroleum exploration. In 1985, IPC financed an edible-oil refinery. The
Bank Group'e share in the external capital assistance received by
Mauritania amounts to about 8.0 percent.
101.      Until the mid-1970s, Bank Group strategy for Mauritania focused
on financing traditional projects mainly in agriculture, transport and
education. This assistance has since been broadened to address the insti-
tutional weaknesses in economic management, investment planning and project
implementation. Two technical assistance projects (FY77 and FY82) have
provided assistance for the formulation of macroeconomic policy, a medium-
and long-term development strategy, and investment programs. The objective
of this assistance has been to institute a much more thorough analysis of
investments than in the past, especially to avoid large, capital-intensive
projects with low productivity and unsatisfactory rates of return.
Priority is now being given to projects involving the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure.
102.      In support of the Government's Recovery Program, the Association
has intensified its country and economic sector work, particularly in the
banking, fisheries, education, energy, and urban sectors. This work was
extremely useful in preparing the current SAL; it helped identify fisheries
and banking as priority sectors where well-defined actions are urgently
required. To assist in defining meaningful strategies in these two key



- 36 -
sectors, the Association has financed studies to provide the Government and
the donor community with a sound basis for defining basic policy actions.
103.      Weak public sector management is acknowledged to be a root cause
of Mauritania's economic predicament. The revitalization of the
Mauritanian administration is therefore an important objective of the
Recovery Program and also a central element of the SAL. An Administrative
Assessment prepared by the Association in 1985 reviewed government deci-
sion-making, personnel management, organizational matters and economic
management and recommended measures to streamline the Mauritanian adminis-
tration. In direct support of this program, a Technical Assistance Project
for Economic Management, currently under preparation, will aim at strength-
ening the Ministry of Economy and Finance, reorganizing personnel manage-
ment and improving the utilization of domestic resources.
104.      Following a comprehensive review of public sector enterprises,
assistance was also provided to prepare a medium-term rehabilitation
program for the public enterprise sector. This program includes measures
to increase the efficiency of existing enterprises through selective
rehabilitation, privatization and liquidation, and it outlines rehabilita-
tion programs for the main enterprises, including pricing policies, person-
nel adjustments, streamlining of management, and appropriate maintenance of
equipment (para. 30). In support of this program, a Public Enterprise
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Credit was approved in FY85. A
first phase is successfully rehabilitating the four largest enterprises and
programming key studies to strengthen public sector management.
105.      Assistance to agriculture will continue, especially to reduce
investment costs which have been high due to difficult physical conditions,
limited transport infrastructure, and the high level of technical assis-
tance needed. Through the Second Technical Assistance Project to the Rural
Sector (FY83), Mauritania's principal rural development enterprise,
SONADER, is being strengthened and incentives for efficiency are being
developed by addressing such fundamental issues as input and product
pricing, subsidies and land tenure. A Small Scale Irrigation Project
(FY85) is financing the establishment of 75 small perimeters of 20-25 ha
each. The participation of beneficiaries in construction, maintenance and
operations is being emphasized to minimize investment costs. The Second
Livestock Project (FY85) has as its main objectives to improve livestock
production and strengthen the allocation of services. Based on experience
in Niger and Mali, pastoral cooperatives are being established on a trial
basis and grazing rights are being allocated to identifiable land areas.
Concerning Mauritania's development strategy for agriculture, a master plan
for the irrigated development of the Senegal River Valley is currently
being prepared with French, Dutch, German and IDA financing. The
masterplan will be discussed at a donor sector meeting tentatively sched-
uled for March 1988, and a future IDA operation could help implement
certain components. In addition, food policy issues such as food security
programming and appropriate pricing will be addressed under the SAL.
106.      Assistance to the education sector is being provided under the
Second Education Project (FY82) which aims at expanding access to primary
education, improving vocational training in the modern industrial and



- 37 -
commercial sectors, and training of lower secondary school teachers to
replace foreign technical assistants. Professional training and technical
assistance will remain an essential ingredient of IDA assistance in order
to help overcome the acute shortages of trained local staff at all lev-
els--a major difficulty in project Implementation. Through project aid and
technical assistance, efforts have been made to strengthen farmers' train-
ing and vocational training for the modern industrial sector, as well as to
broaden access to primary education. The Association has agreed to a
recent government request to assist in reviewing key sectoral issues,
defining long-term objectives, and preparing an investment program to
increase the efficiency of education and training, as well as to investi-
gate ways of reducing recurrent costs in the education sector. These
efforts would form the basis for a Third Education Project. In addition,
an operation currently under preparation in the health and population
sector will provide assistance to increase the efficiency of health servic-
es and improve our understanding of family planning issues.
107.      In the energy sector, our assistance has consisted of supporting
the Government's search for oil through the Petroleum Exploration Project
(FY82) and carrying out an "energy assessment" in order to recommend
strategies and policies for improving energy demand management. Policy
objectives in the Energy Sector are be addressed under the SAL. A fol-
low-up project is under consideration combining support for both petroleum
exploration and household energy conservation.
108.      In the water supply sector, the Association is helping the
Government to define a suitable sector strategy compatible with prevailing
financial constraints. Special attention will be given to cost recovery
mechanisms and equipment utilization. Expanded knowledge of the sector
will be discussed at a donor sector meeting scheduled for the end of 1988.
A water supply project currently under preparation will provide support for
operations and maintenance as well as finance rehabilitation and technical
assistance.
109.     The Association is also helping Mauritania to develop an overall
strategy for the urban sector. Urbanization has accelerated dramatically
in recent years, but appropriate measures to adjust to this development
have not been tsken. Sector work, including spatial planning and municipal
finance, is being carried out with the help of the Special Project Prepara-
tion Facility and under the Second Technical Assistance Credit. This
sector work may lead to the design of an urban project at a later stage.
110.     To assist in Mauritania's efforts to diversify employment and
sources of income, we have provided financing (under Credit 888-MAU and
through the Mauritanian Development Bank) to encourage private enterprise
development.  A Second Industrial Development Project (Credit 1572-MAU),
approved by the Board in FY85, is continuing to support these objectives by
financing studies to develop appropriate policies for improving sub-sector
performance and further expansion of the manufacturing sector.
111.     The Bank Group has been actively involved in Mauritania's iron
mining sector since 1963. Under the supervision of the Guelbs Project, the
Bank Group assisted the Mauritanian mining company, SNIM, in preparing a



- 38 -
rehabilitation program which it began implementing in 1984. A Bank loan
approved by the Board in FY86 consists of actions in support of this
rehabilitation program covering the period 1986-88. In particular, support
is being provided to improve SNIM's management, reduce its costs and reform
its financial structure.
112.      In addition to the above-mentioned sector donor meetings planned
for the fisheries, rural development and water resources sectors, a second
Consultative Group meeting is tentatively scheduled for 1988. A Country
Economic Memorandum will be prepared for presentation to the CG with
special emphasis on a review of public expenditures.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
113.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
114.      I am satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit would
comply with the provisions of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985.
115.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1987.
Attachments



-39 -
NVALRTAt4IA - W.&MlC IOICAT62                                  Country Oreu* I
-------------------------------Country name                      Maurtalnia
M4id-108  Population (ail*.)    1.7                                                                                   VS9e:   1I of 
1988 Per Capita GN  In MS:    400                                                                            Data Pupared:    8/13867
A. share. of Oro"a Doamatic Product                        6. oroath Ratea CS per macus)
(from current price data)                                  (f ro  conatant price data)
1968    1973    1l60       1964     19669    1986.          1988-78  1978-80  1,1900-94   1905    1H6s
Oro"e Doematic Product n.p.       100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0                    2.9      1.9      2.1      8.1       4.0
Not Indiroct T.se*               6.2      9.4      6.1    12.1    12.6    14.1                     .        .
Agriculture           80.2     88.0     28.5     28.8     28.1     24.0              -2.1     -.8       2.9       1.1       4,
Induetry                        88.4     97.8    24.4      22.8    21.8    21.2                  4.8      1.2      2.8      4.1       1.4
(of which Manufacturing)         8.7       .         .       .         .        .                 .        .
Service.                        80.2    28.8      41.0    89.1      40.8    40.1                 0.1      6.2    -2.0       8.4       1.8
Reacrce Sal se                   18.8      1.1   -29.8   -28.1    -16.6   -10.8
Exporte of GMF                  42.2    47.8    87.8    47.7    89.6    87.4                     6,S      04;.             14.0       2.2
leporte art 0NF                 28.7    40.3    66.7    70.8    70.8    67.9                    1.        5.6        7      1,9      -7.4
Total Expenditurea                 66.8    90.9   129.8   128.         110.6    110.8               4.1      4.2      2.6    -4.6       -I.0
Total Coineumptlon              72.5    90.2    98.1    100,7       92.8    69.2                 8.2      2.9      6.2    -4.8       -2.1
Private Conaguetion          88.9     71.8    67.8    04.0    77.4    74.7                   2.6       0.6      9.4     -4.2      -2.8
General Gaoverneant          18.7    18.7    28.8    16.7    18.4          14.5               0.1      8.8    '.4.9    40.1       -.4O.
Oro". Domoetic Invoatao"t       18.9      8..    86.2    22.4    94.8    21.8                   14.8    10.6    -7.0        2.8      -1.9
Fixed Inveatomet               ..     16.2    81.8    29.0    28.6        20.0                 ..      7.4      4.2    -10.8      -2.1
Changes In Stock               .      -7.6      4,9     -6.6      0.2       1.8                 .       .
Oro.. Dosmeatic Saving             27.4      9.8      0.9    -0.7       7,2      10.0              -8.1       .        ..    110.7      70.3
Not Factor Income               -6.8     -.4.     -8.8    -0.0    -8.2    4e.6                     .       .
Net Current Tranafoer             ..       .       2.7    12.0       8.0      4.2                  .        .
Grosa National Saving                 .        ..    14.8      8.8      7.0      0.2                 ,.     -8.8             -16.2
In mill lone,of ougiyee            1908     1978     1960     1904     1906P    1986
(St constant 198 price.)           ---      ---      --- --           ---      
Cirom" Dametic Product         28168    273226    82888    8686    86484    87922               2.9       1.9      2.1      8.1       4.0
Capacity to Import              099     12098    12184    19984    96761    24124                4.9    -2.8      12.2    19.2        1.8
Toro, of Trade AdJuetaent       l618      7883       0     2861     2494     2488..                        .
Gross Dasactic Income          240       86       28       619    8698      40407               2.8       0.6      8.6      1.9,      8.
Crmoo  National Product        2099     25496    8064     8809     88886    8449                 8.4      1.0      1.6      2.8       1.6
Oroaa National Inc..           22818    26232    38041   8694      88349    86944                2.7      0.8      8.2      1.1       1.6
--    -  ------(1960 a 100) ----------                      ------Inflation Rates CS p.a.) ------
C. Pr'ice Indices                  1980     198      1983     1984     19866    1906.           1968-78  1978-80  1980-64     19669    19606
Conauear Prices (IPS 64)            100    184.1   188.4   144.9   169.8,   184.0                   8.8    10.7       9.1    17.0        9.0
Wholeaale Price. (IFS 83)             .        .        ..       .        .        ..                          .
Imp licit ODP Deflator              too0     , 11.8   12.2   180.4;   110.8   161.8                S.1      0.        6.9     18.4      7.8
In licit Eapendituree Defltor       100    109.1   1183.2   119.7   189.6   180.8                  8.0       9.6      4.9    16.6        7.8
0. Other Indicoatr.                      1968-78           197840            1980-08p
rOmeth Rate. (3 P.C.):                                                                                  a = ..timated dota
Ptoulation                                2.8               2.2               2.4                   p = preliminaery date
Labor Forces                              1.9               2.0
Gros. National Incam. p.a.                0.4              -1.7               0.8
Private Consumption P.C.                  0.8              -1.4               4.4
Import Slasticity:
Import. (0-NWS) / O0P (mp)                8.6               8.1               8.0
Marginael Savinge Rate.:
Orgee National saving                      ...-60.8
Orcee4 Doseatic saving                 -136.2             -12.0              17.6
ICOR (period avesrage.):                     2.0              11.6              18.8
S1hare of t'otal                   1988     1978     196      1988p
Labor Forces In.,                                    -
Acricultur.                     89,6    81.0    09.8
Industry                         8.0      8.8      9.0
Service.                         7.4    18.8    21.?
TOtW                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                                ----------------



- 40 -
tAMMtTIA -  EOUC  DOCTUA                                             Annex:  I
Page:   2 of a
Volum  Index (1*   1n0):                   Volve at Current Prices (aillIein  US111):
. Merchandis Export              1960    to"2    1ow       1*4      198    lue   S"6          1to      19613    1964    1985P   18eo
-  - -  -  - - - - - _.__ - - - _ - _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~~~~-- -                  -- - --  -- -- -
Iran ore                          lO       82      so      1o9      107     1O    10.0   Us.0   134.0   144.0   181.0    143.8
Fbelh Ond fish product            100      24      446      a70      47      444    43.0    e8.0   161.0   148.0   219.0    272.4
QFPU                              100        0       0        0        0     oas      0.4      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      1.2
Co erabic                         100        0       0        0        0       0      0.5      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
anufcture                          ..       ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       .
Other Exprt.                       ..       ..       ,.      ..       ..      ..      2.0      a.4    20.0      1.6      1.6      1.9
Totel Harchandiee Eaports FOB                                                       195.9   289.4   315.0   293.6   371.6    417.0
F. Mercrhandie Imports
Food                               ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..    es.0   127.0    2.O       69.0    68.0      68.0
POL and Othr Energy                ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..    44.0    67.0    46.0    43.0    09.0         38.0
Other Iport.                        ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..   18.0   23S.0   202.0   190.0   202.0    216.0
Other Corauer     e              ..      ..      ..       ..       ..       ..    40.0    60.0    39.0    40.0    38.0    38.0
Other Inteldit Gos o9. ..                         ..       ..      ..       ..    6o9.0    90.0    8s.o    82.0    86.0       91.0
Capital  oode      '             ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..    72.0    8a.0    80.0    68.0    76.0        89.0
Tot Narchadlee Import. CIF                                                          S21.0   427.0   87.0   802.0   309.0    321.0
0. Teor  of Trade (19600   100)   l180    1982    19e6     194    198        18                          - - ---
March. Exports Price Index        100    95.2    8.96    87.8    64.9         S1                   e   atlated dadt
March. Imports Price Index        100    92.$    90.9       W. 8     8.8    92.9                   p   prel limiary 4t
Nrchandeie Tro aof Trade          100   162.6    98.6    97.6    9.2    87.2
USII *;II Ion. (at current price.):
H. o lance of Paymt,             l90    1          198     1984    1901    19686
Exports of Goods and 1s2          258      26?     s6       82       409     467
Marchandise (FOB)              196      240      815     294      672     417
Mon-Factor Sarvice             a8       47      So       2S       87      SO
leort eo  Goode end  FS           44e 9    86               480      a25     659
Morchandlee (ffO)               21      427      876     a02      809     821
Mo-factor Servic.              128      186      177     178      217     2"8
faource eaance                   -196    -297    -210    -s         -117     -2
H"t Fctor Incom                   -27      -a6      -62     -8a      -       -66
(intereat por CR6)              13       24      28       28      24       s0
Mat Current Tranofe r                       68               77       76      as
Corkwer  remittances)               6        2       1
Current Account bwlarn           -1       -277    -210    -110       -?7     -n
Long-Tora Capital infl.          144      li6    186        as       as      60
Or ect Investent                27       is        1       9        7       6
Official Capital Grant.          0        0       0        0        0       0
Nat LT Loans (06s  data)       117      19S      176      8S       82     -28
Other LT infloas (Mat)           0      -28      -10     -11   -14.2       o6
Total Other It_* (NOt)            -49       47       14      -1       -1       0
NMt Short-tare Capltal         -16       82        1       1        0       0
Capital Flow l.E.1.              0        0       a        0        0       0
Error  nd Oswion               -2        -4       12      -2       -1       0
Chane, In Net Rarvee              35        48      a2       S6      2S        S
Mat Credit frm  IW              18       17       -4     -10        a       1o
other Rearve Chag"e
( - indicetoc increae)          25       32      85       46      26       -7
An char*, of IOP:
Reegurce blanc.              -27.7   -89.S   -26 7   -21.9   -18.9   -10.2
Interat Peymnta                1.8      8.2     2.9      8.2       4      6.4
Current Acont 61lanc         -1U.8   -861.9   -27.1   -15.6       -17   -12.8
memorandum. Item:
Internat'l J  herve  (all. us)    140      1       106       76      so      S6
bervr  incl. Gold (ll. UIJ8)      146      14       110      81       62      ii
Officiel X-1ate (USAS)          45.91   81.77 8n4.61   62.0   77.09   76.80
Indx fel off. K  Ibe  10          100  188.94  188.68  134.14  126t.3         ..    ---------------------------
M0P ( tll loeof crrent US1)       709      7li     188      728      690o     75



- 41 -
IWA lTY - I0O@UC  OlICATM                                            Angs ai   I
Page:  83 8f 
Sharo. oaf 0P (1)                                  Growth Rate  (1 p.O.)
S. Consol I dated Budaet         1190    11o    l"       119114    1989    1986             1990 - ea        194    198t    1980.
COurrent Receipt.                15.7    20.8    20.7    22.8    28.1    28.1                 20.8             15.2    19.8      11.3
Current Ebpndlturoe              29.0    27.6    s6.0    27.1    22.9    21.6                  5.0             12.5      e.9      9.7
Current Budget Balance          -18.3    -7.8    -5.1    -4.6        0.2      1.5            -20.5              1.1            i 614
Capital Recaip-t                   0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0               0.0              0.0      0.0      0.0
Capital ExFPnditure-             17.0    19.5    12.4    1.1    10. 2    10.4                 -1.2             39.5    -7.        3.4
Overall Deficit                 -80.8   -26.8   -17.5   -20.9    10.0        0.9             -4.7              20.4    -1.0       0.0
Official Capital CrnRt           11.2      0.7     7.8    13.1    12.1       9.4              -4.9             92.8      8.8    -13.4
Eaterral Borroaing (not)         17.0    17.7    10.8       8.6    -0.2    -0.2               -6.4            -2.86
Do_etic Non-Bank Finaeing
Dometic Bank Financing            2.2      0.4    -0.8    -0.8    -1.9    -0. 
Nt D;mbur as_nt. (LSO  illie)                 Dbt Outetaning  Disbured OM Soil.)
J. i strnal C pital Fleve13ot      _        -     --        -     -    -    -        -     --------------- ---------
and Debt Burden Ratio.         1960    1982    19sa    1964    19869    19s6s    1900    11         1       1904    1906    1916.
Public A PublIcly Cuaranteed LT    117     194      176      0        aS     -28      782    10QS    1l6       1204    1S68      1308
Official Creditor.             114      188      IV7      75       S       -28     S6       92s    1067    1076    1226       li8
l*jltileteral                 81      as       70      25       -0      -10     142      21      814      s29      842      880
of,whchl                  0O       22       26      -2       -t       -7       0       83       S9      57       81       48
Of WhichA                  4        a       a        8        6       6       as       49      52       a6       64       71
silatal                      88 a     97       68      so       42      -1a     45       - an    72m      747      m87      Su
Privste Creditora                        11     a8        12        1       ..     184      1o08    129      12       18s      117
Suppliors                      2       t       Si       1        0                a6     6S       72        4       78       59
Financial Markete              1       6       21 s     1        1               s 6      41      T7       64       62       so
Privae Non-uaranteed LT
Totel LT                          117      194      176      as       62     -28      732    1026    118    1204    1868         1808
VW aNt Credit                     1S        17      -4      -1o      -S       10       84      46       41       S0      so        80
Not Short-Tore Capital            -16       82       1        1        0       0       aS       76      0a      0a       84        41
Total Includin LW   Noet ST       114      264      173      79       s9     -13      821    11S5     1280    1317    1477       1860
Bank and IMA Ratio*              1960    192    1is"       1984    1986    1986.
~~~~~~~-    -    - -                                                      Notee: _ -i 
Share of Total Long-Term DOD                                                                         - esti meted datn
1 1ERD a S of Tot l              0.00    S.19    5.06    4.7a    S.74    8.62                     p * pr lI minary data
2. IDA as S of Total            S .i     4.79    4.48    4.67    4.68    4.74
S. Il00+A  a S of Total          8.18    7.90    9.81    9.40    0.42    6.26
Shre of Total LT Debt Servica
1. 13 as S of Total              0.00    4.05    8.s0    16.44   12.66    4.21
2. *-A a S of Tetal              2.00    1.81    1.82    0.98    1.16    0.69
3. 1sRD*IDA as   of Tot l        2.00    5.79    10.51   17.86   15.90    4.90
COD-to-Exporta Ratloa
1. Long-TUr, Debt/Export       271.27  836.82  83.81  864.60  829.94  378.57
2. 1W Credit/Exportt            12.49    15.76   11.61    s.9       7.88    9.7S
3. Short-Tarm Debt/Export.      20.89   24.61   28.40   25.15   20.88    11.10
4. LTZW4+ST OW/Export.         S04.15  070.94  865.62  86.72  857.61  594.42
OD-to-COP Ratio.
1. Long-Term Debt/CP            08.21  1187.86  140.5;  156.55  197.89  20a.89
2. 1W Credtt/GDP                 4.78    6.42    8.28    4.11    4.59    8.38
S. SBhrt-Term Debt/CDP           7.76   10.18   10.56   11.40   12.17    6.04
4. LT+.4S3T D06/DP             118.72  155."   14 .18  1S.14  218.95  214.79
DObt Soervice/Exporte
1. PubIlc a uaranteedLT         11.12   12.98   10.4S    18.06    18.98   24.80
2. Private  tib-Ouranteed LT
8. Total 1. Debt Service        1. 12   12.98    10.46   15.00   18.98   24.50



- 42 -
pa  I   I
SrAJU  OF BAZI GMP OPFPATIGI IN MNALURIAl
A. Statement of Bank lams and ML Credits (as of Mrch 31, 1981)
Awut (less cancleatiors) 1/
US$ Million~
Loan or                                                                      Baik      Mt,  Urdisbursed
Credit Nuwber   Yew     Borrower
Tu loan  wd eleven Credits fully disbursed                                   126.0    46.9     0.00
1068-W  2/     1981    Maritania   Gorgol Irription                                   15.00    0.10
11754W)         1982    Mauria   Petroleum                                             3.00    0.52
12144W         1982    2auitania   Secand Fcation                                      5.70    2.23
1-14W)          1982     Auritania   Trth HI&y                                         4.00    3.60
1292-W          1982    M1 1rtanIa   Second Techntcal Assistae                         4.60    3.11
14144W          1983    Mauitmina   Seond Techncal Assistance to                      8.10    4.03
RuPIl Sector
1567-MW        1985    Maritania   Public Enterprise Technial Assistance              16.40   15.36
ad   litati
1571-W         19&      Mamritania   S.l Scale Irri on                                 7.50    8.47
1572-UJ        1985   .Mauritmnia   Industrial and Artiosm Dewlopunat                  5.25    5.80
26434W)         1985    Mataritania   MNM Rehbilitation                      20.0              2.20
16584ikU 3/     1986    Mawritania   Seconid Livestock                        -        7.60    9.26
tOMAL                                                        146.0   124.05   54.68
of *ilch has been repad                                     81.0     3.01
Total rm outstxUrig                                          65.0   121.04
Amount sold                                          63.4
of  ieh has bem repaid                              63.4     0.0      0.00
Total rv hold by Bank an IDA                                  65.0   121.04
Total incidsbtrsed                                         2.20   52.48   54.68
Prior to eud=    adjubsbwts.
/ Beging with Crdit 106841AU, credits have been deninte td In Special DrwAulg Rihts.
The dollar aunt in these cbums represent the dollar equivalents at the tiem of
credit negotiatiaia for the IDA unmts a-d the dollar equivalsnts as of
March 31, 1986, for the undibursed mnts (1 SDR - US$1.28563).
31 Not yet effectize.
* $he statou of the projects Listed in Part A in a separate report an al. Bank IDA financial
in execution, thich is updated twice yearly and circulate to the Euncutive Dirtctors en
April 30 and October 31.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
TABLE I
Page 1 of 4
MAURITANIA: Gross Domsetic Product by Sector and Structure
of National Accounts by Expendlture
1987    1909    1698    1998   1991    1992    193    1994    1096
GOP by sector (millions of Ougulyas, in constatt 1982 prices)
Agriculture                       12,670  18,028  18,262  18,411  18,74  14,151  14,542  14,946  16,389
Industry                          10,868  11,498  12,116  12,788  13,912  18,227  18,488  18,710  18,969
Services                          14,9802  15,896  16,719  16,144  16,524  16,913  17,811  17,719  18,136
Taxes - subsidies                  6,488   6,616   6,682   7,062   7,257   7,487   7,688   7,906   8,1386
GOP (market prices)               44,0"  48,446  47,919  49,898  50,557  61,768  62,999  64,268  65,610
Annual growth rates (in constant prices)
Agriculture                          7.0     1.2     1.7     1.2    2.7      2.7      2.8     2.8     2.8
Industry                             1.6     6.9     6.2     5.5     1.7     1.7      1.8     1.8     1.9
Services                             8.6     8.8     2.1     2.7     2.4     2.4      2.4     2.4     2.4
GOP (market prices)                  4.5     8.6     8.2     8.1     2.4     2.4      2.4     2.4     2.4
Structure of National Account by Expenditure (millions of Ouguilys at current prices)
CDP (market prices)               65,924  71,641  77,c08  68,096  99,898  07,60 104,864 112,226 120,657
lmport. of goods and NFS          41,968  46,482 48,929  51,789  58,695  56,216  68,440  69,965  68,901
Total resources                197,917 117,978 128,687 185,786 144,201 168,S89  162,629 178,169 164,557
Exports of goods and WJS          35,"9  88,566 41,85  44,284  47,8S9  60,600  58,747  57,091  69,259
Gross Domestic lnvestment         14,849  17,666  17,261  16,882  19,079  19,826  20,579  21,881  22,0865
aG Gross capital formation      18,892  16,971  15,890  16,800  17,598  16,200  18,998  19,600 20,899
b) Change In stock               1,947   1,495   1,861   1,582   1,579   1,628   1,679   1,731   1,7865
Final Consumption                 67,769 69,951  67,991  78,160  77,488  82,676  88,609   94,758 102,214
a) Government                    9,268   9,965  19,772  11,664  12,651  18,722  14,887  16,161  17,527
b) Private                      4,6,80  50,996  57,129 61,654 64,682 69,156  73,616  78,697  64,687
As perceontage of GDP
Imports of goods and NFS           68.7   68.4    68.9   61.6    69.7    57.9   68.0    54.8    68.0
Exports of goods and NFS            54.8    68.6    58.8    62.7    52.8    62.1    51.5    60.9   49.9
Resource gap                       9.4     9.6     9.7     6.9     6.9     5.6     4.5      8.4    8.0
Grovs Domestic Investment           21.8    24.5    22.2    21.6    21.1    20.4    19.7    19.0    10.8
Government consumption              14.0    18.9    18.9    18.9   14.0    14.1    14.8    14.4    14.6
Private consumption                 78.6    71.2    78.6    78.2    71.8    71.2    70.5    70.0   70.2
Gross domostic savings              12.8    14.9    12.5    12.9    14.2    14.6    16.2    16.8    16.8
Memorandum item:
GOP deflator (1982=199             148.9   154.2   162.9  170.1   178.6   167.5  198.9   206.7   217.0



- 44 -
ANNEX III
TAMLE 2                                Page 2 of 4
MAURITANIA: Balance of Paymwnts i/
(millions of USS at current prices)
(NOTE: the service paymente on the financial aesistanoe needed to till the gop estimated In Table 4 are not included)
l198   1966    1989   1l9o    1991   1992   1993    1994   1995
_- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---------- - -- -- -- -- -- _-- - -- - - -- - --  - -- -  - -- _ - - -- _-- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
1. Trad Balance                       1U4.9  107.8  104.5   117.7  142.6  169.4   109.9  202.4  217.6
a) Exports                         423.3  446.9  484.1  516.5  559.2  694.0  631.0  670.2  707.0
of which: Iron ore              140.2  146.0  143.9  142.6  144.7  148.6  149.0  151.2  153.4
fish                  281.2  299.1  117.6  882.6  868.5  896.0  429.5  483.0  493.7
b) Imports                         316.8  841.6  879.6  460.6  417.1  484.5  460.1  487.9  489.5
2. Non-Factor Services (net)          -18.6 6-195.6  -201.2  -218.9 -222.2  -281.4  -241.1 -261.9  -264.2
-  --  -__-  --  --  --  --  -_- - --   - - --  -      - - --   - - -    _- --- -_- - --   -- ---   - -- ---
a) Exports                          47.2   45.4   46.5   46.6   51.8   54.7   58.1   61.7   85.5
b) Iports                         238.9  240.9  247.?  262.5  278.8  268.2  299.2  313.8  329.7
S. Factor Services (not)               -66.s  -C8.2  -51.6  -4S6.  -42.7  -87.5  -83.7  -31.8  -28.8
a) Receipt.                         38.      86.     7.6    7.0    6.1    6.4    8.7         9.1    9.4
b) Payments                         70.3   64.7   56.6   54.8   90.6   45.9   42.4   40.7   38.2
4. Transfers (net)                      27.5   27.0   26.4   28.6   29.0   29.9   80.7   31.6   32.3
a) Private                         -17.4  -17.7  -16.1  -16.7  -19.4  -19.8  -20.3  -20.9  -21.8
b) Public                           44.9   44.6   46.5   47.2   48.4   49.6   61.0   62.4   63.9
I) Food aid                      16.6   14.6   16.5   17.2   16.4   19.6   21.0   22.4   23.9
ii) Other                        28.4   29.6   80.0   80.0   80.0   86.0 6         .0   30.0   30.0
S. Current Account                    -121.0  -119.4  -119.4  -114.2  -98.9  -79.6  -63.3  -49.7  -43.2
= ~~~~~~~~-- - --  - - -  _-  - - -    - - - __-  -    __-   - _- - -    -- - --    -- ---   ----
6. Net direct investment                17.0   20.6   860.0    6.6   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0
7. Other capital investment              0.0    0.0    6.6    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0
6. Official capital grants              50.4   56.8   68.9   56.4   64.0   52.6   51.8   50.8   60.0
9. Loan Capital                        -87.8  -56.1  -46.0  -18.9  -41.4  -89.9  -80.0  -19.5    8.8
a) Disbursemants                   102.6  168.6   94.2  188.  99.1   9S 6   97.6   96.4   94.9
b) AmortIzation                    189.9  156.9  184.2  117.2  140.5  138.4  127.6  115.9   88.1
10. Financing balance (- deficit)      -90.9  -95.9  -72.5  -42.7  -61.8  -46.7  -21.5           1.8   33.6
a) Change In foreign reserves       -8.9   -6.9  -14.2  -16.6  -17.2  -16.3  -18.0  -18.0  -13.0
t) Change In gross reserves      -17.0  -18.1   -5.6   -8.o   -4.0   -B.4          4.0   -8.0   -7.0
;1) Net IMF                        13.1    6.2   -9.2  -18.6  -18.2  -12.8  -10.0   -6.0   -8.0
1ii) Other                           0.0    0.0    0.0       6.6    0.0   060       0.0    0.0    0.0
b) ap                             -94.8 -102.8  -66.7  -59.8  -76.6  -65.0  -87.6  -14.4   20.6
Memorandum Item:
12. GODP In current dollars            667.0  918.5  995.6  1076.4  1157.68  1244.7  1838.3  1488.8  1646.9
18. Current account deficit/GOP (S)    -14.0  -18.6  -12.6  -10.6   -8.1   -6.4   -4.7   -3.6   -2.8
1/ Including rescheduling of external public debt in 1965 and 1989.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 4
TABLE 8
MAURITANIA: Gowernmsnt Coneolidated Op"ertions  1/
(eillione of Ouguiye)
1997     1963    lOU       1966     1901     1992      190      1904     1995
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - --                                                - - - ^- - - - - - - - - - - - -_ - - - 
1.  Revenues and Grants             22,961   24,604   26,629   27,262   2s,505   80,121   81,915   83,04s   a,8562
- - - - - - - - - -                               -        -  -    - --  _- - - -_- -    _-_- -_- - --  -- -- - --  - - - - - -  - - - - - 
a) Government Revenue          15,714   10,64   17,064   19,279   20,6,9    22,184   28,797   25,598   27,646
i) Tax revnuwe,             18,5   14,064   15,81    16,659   17,996   19,452   21,081   22,744   24,864
of which: on wags/profits   4,199    4,567    4,97r    6,426    6,916    6,447    7,027    7,e69    8,849
Import taxes       8,816    6,824    4,3S0   4,000    5,817    6,766    6,259    6,791    7,868
fishing taxes      2,449    2,617    2,S01    2,693    2,882    8,688    8,299    8,630    8,777
i1) Non-tax revenues          2,709    2,63s    2,68S    2,629    2,6ss    2,661    2,766    2,864    2,944
b) Crants                       7,247    8,6s8   6,s6       8,668    7,98#77,06        8,901    8,0S6    8,114
i) Budgetary                   36o      aoo      8oa      8so       860      600      800      8o0      800
1;) Extra-budgetary           6,247    7,65     7,66     7,668    6,987    6,907    7,618    7,N65    7,104
1) In kind                1,266    1,154    1,237    1,842    1,485    1,629    1,686    1,747    1,864
2) Project.               8,462    1,466    8,460    8,460    8,416    8,400    S,400    3,400   8,400
O) Others                 1,590    2,496    2,876    2,261    2,152    2,6S8    1,906    1,963    1,840
it!) Special account.            708      760      760       706      700      760      760      700      700
2.  NHt lending and expenditures   24,621   26,896   27,857   29,148   W0,142   81,889   82,586   83,904   38,602
a) Current expenditures        16,570   18,067   16,667   19,748   20,742   21,989   28,186   24,654   26,102
i) Budgetary                18,726   14,41?   15,202   16,146   17,166   18,852   19,618   20,884   22,398
Operating expenditure   9,258    9,966   10,772   11,664   12,651   18,722   14,887   16,152   17,628
Others                  4,472    4,462    4,486    4,476    4,565    4,680    4,682    4,782    4,072
ii) Extra-budgetary           2,645    8,656    8,6S    8,668    8,567    8,587    8,618    8,660   8,704
6) Capital                      7,651    6,181    6,266    9,26W    9,200    9,200    9,299    9,200   9,200
i) Budgctary                   666      961    1,048    1,181    1,227    1,882    1,446    1,66?    1,706
11) Extra-budgetary           6,265    6,470    6,547    7,809   7,278    7,166    7,066    6,938    6,800
ltl) Special aceount.            7eg      79      7?6        766     7i        766      70       706      70
c) Net lending                    200      200       2        206      260      200      200      266      200
8.   Overall flcal deficit C )     (1,666   (1,715)  (1,827)  (1,062)  (1,565)  (1,219)    (722)    (286)    16
4.  Financing                        (1,89)  (1,686)  (1,646)      812     (611)    (660)    (826)      (83)    651
- - -- - -- -     - -  - -- -  -- -     -    -  - -- - - - - - - -  -- -- - --  -- - - - -- - - - - -    -- -- -- -
a) External                    (1,806)  (1,686)  (1,646)      812     (611)    (5560)    (328)     (88)    6S1
i) Disbursements             2,868    8,070    8,147    8,069    8,678    3,766    3,866    3,533    3,400
1i) Amortization              4,253    4,950    4,187    8,657    4,864    4,818    3,981    8,816    2,749
b) Internal                         6        6        0         0        6        0        0        0        
S.   Financing gap (- *urpplis)      8,6s5   8,668    2,867    1,660   2,069    1,768    1,647         869      (801)
Memorandum items:
Government savings              1,989    2,21?    2,763    8,188    8,442    8,781    4,273    4,714    6,160
Government Revenues/GoP  ()      28.3     28.2      28.1     28.6    22.8      22.8     22.3     22.8     22.8
Current expenditure/GOP  (5)     20.0     26.1    19.6    19.2    19.0    18.9          18.7     18.6    18.8
1/ These account. do not inelude payment of orrrs which were settled and eliminated in 1985.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
TABLE 4                                       ----- -
Page 4 of 4
MAURITANIA: External Financing Needs
(million  of USS at current price.)
1987    1988    1969    1980    1991    1992    1993    1994    1906
1. Resource Cap                            -01.7  -68.2   -96.7   -96.2   -00.2   -72.0   -80.2   -49.6   -48.7
2. Not private Inflow                         1.3     8.7    17I0    16.8     5.6     4.9     4.1      3.2     2.1
a.  Increase In foreign reserves (-)       -17.0   -18.1    -5.0    -8.0      4.0    -8.0    -6.9    -8.0    -7.0
4.  Interest on short term deposits         -4.2    -4.2    -4.2    -4.2    -4.3    -4.8    -4.8    -4.8    -4.3
S. Net Public Financing                   -101.7  -96.7  -86.9  -87.2  -88.6  -77.4  -86.4  -58.6   -65.8
a) Public transfers                     95.8   163.2   108.4  1l2.6   102.4   102.4   102.8   108.2   103.9
b) Project Financing                   102.6   108.8    94.2   103.8    99.1      8.S    97.6   06.4    94.9
i) Pipe line                         92.3   68.1   68.6  65.1    82.4    0.0           0.0     0.0     0.0
.i) New disbursements                 10.8   20.2    80.6   45.2    66.7    98.6   97.6   908.4   94.9
c) Debt Service (project finoncing)   -200.8  -214.3  -184.1  -188.0  -188.0  -176.0  -161.4  -147.4  -116.4
1) Pipe line prior 1985 reach.     -178.7  -192.6  -154.8  -128.2  -128.8  -120.7  -116.5  -104.1   -81.2
Interest payments              -48.7   -38.8   -83.4   -29.5   -26.4   -22.4   -19.0   -16.5   -13.1
Amortization                  -185.0  -164.0  -120.9   -98.7  -160.4  -99.8   -97.5   -87.6   -68.1
il) 1988/88 Reachedulings            -21.6  -21.2  -29.1  -88.5  -54.0  -51.8  -89.2  -85.4  -25.1
Interest payments              -18.8   -18.8   -15.8   -15.0   -18.9  -11.6    -9.8    -7.5   -6.6
Amortization                    -4.9    -4.9   -18.8   -18.5   -40.1   -40.1   -29.9   -27.9   -19.8
i) New loans  a/                      -0.1    -0.8   -0.7   -1.8   -2.2   -8.6    -5.7    -7.9  -10.1
Interest payments               -0.1    -0.8    -0.7    -1.8    -2.2    -8.6   -5.5    -7.5   -9.4
Amortization                     0.9     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   -0.2    -0.4    -O.7
d) Net IMF                               9.8      8.3   -11.3   -15.1   -14.0   -12.7   -10.0   -8.0   -6.0
1) Interest paymnt.                  -8.8    -2.9    -2.1    -1.6    -04.     -0.4     0.0     0.0     8.0
il) Use of Fund credit                18.1     6.2    -9.2   -18.6   -18.2   -12.8  -10.0    -8.0   -6.0
a) SAL                                  25.0    25.0      0.9     0.0     0.0     0.6     0.0     0.0     0.0
6. Financing Cap                           -69.8   -77.8   -86.7   -69.3   -78.5   -65.0   -87.5   -14.4    20.6
a) On normal Peri* Club term.: b/
1) Net relief after rescheduling     70.6   62.8   47.4   84.6    81.7    18.1   -7.0   -27.5  -44.4
Eligible                        70.0   69.0   S9.8   50.8    50.1    44.4    42.8   84.1   26.1
Interest payments                0.0    4.5      8.9    12.6    16.7    15.5    20.6    21.7    21.8
Amortization                     0.0     1.7     a'S    8.2       2.7    15.8    28.7    89.9   49.2
ii) Exceptional assistance noeded     -0.2    15.0    89.8    24.8    48.8    51.9    44.5    41.9    28.8
b) With more favorable terms: c/
1) Net eolief afi4- rescheduling     70.0   62.8    64.9    56.2    58.5    44.5    28.8       8.9   -11.0
Eligible                        70.0   69.0    78.9    74.0    76.9    67.8   56.6    45.6    20.4
Interest payments                0.0     4.5    10.1   14.9    19.6    19.5    28.7    82.4    84.9
Amortization                     0.0     1.7     8.9      8.9     8.8     8.8     4.1     4.8     4.5
II) Exceptional assistance needed     -0.2    16.0   21.8      4.1    25.0   20.5    18.7       5.5   -9.6
A/ New loans have been contracted on conces1onory terms (an average interest rate of 2X,
average grace period of 8 years and 8verge maturity of 86 years).
b/ Multlyear rescheduling. are assumed for each yer from 1989 through 1995.
c/ Assuming that principal on rescheduled debt In 1085-86 will be reschduled again
and that starting 1989 grace and maturity stil be Increased by 5 yeare.



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 30
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
IN MAURITANIA
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        In 1984 the Islamic Republic of Mauritania faced growing
budgetary and external deficits which led to a substantial build-up of
arrears. Efforts to check that deterioration did not yield tangible
results because they were not directed at its true causes, notably: weak
economic management and inefficiencies in the selection and financing of
public investments. These domestic causes were aggravated by a depressed
international environment and unfavorable natural conditions.
2.        In December 1984, the Government decided to tackle this situation
resolutely. It has spared, and will continue to spare, no effort to bring
the budgetary and external accounts deficits under control. The Government
has decided to implement the necessary internal structural reforms in order
to avoid a return to unmanageable deficit financing. To accomplish this,
an Economic and Financial Recovery Program - the Programme de Redressement
Economigue et Financier (PREF) -- was adopted for the period 1985-88. The
content of this Program has been widely publicized in Mauritania. This has
helped to explain to the people the magnitude of the effort demanded and
the necessity for the sacrifices they are being asked to make. During the
first two-year phase of the Recovery Program, important progress has been
made in reducing the external current account deficit and mobilizing
budgetary savings.
3.        Unfortunately, Mauritania cannot meet the costs of implementing
the Recovery Program without substantial external aid. Even if this aid
does not exceed the pre-1985 level of net transfers, it would have to be
mobilized in forms more in line with the recovery policies currently being
implemented. The international community has reacted favorably to the
Government's appeal in negotiations to mobilize the financing of external
deficits. Donors have agreed to reschedule part of our external debt,
either bilaterally, or through two Paris Club meetings, held in April 1985
and May 1986. We have also been granted exceptional aid.
4.        Nevertheless, external financing needs go beyond the usual
methods of financing investment or technical assistance projects. They
extend to venture capital, capital participations, the financing of certain
recurrent maintenance, training and environmental protection expenditures,
and support for financial recovery or personnel conversion programs. The
First Consultative Group meeting in November 1985 provided the initial
opportunity to make donors aware of the situation. The Government will
continue to promote closer coordination with the donors in order to involve
them in the implementation of Recovery Program policies.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV'
Pae2 of 30
II. THE 1985-88 RECOVERY PROGRAM
A.   Major Objectives
5.        The Recovery Program was adopted by the Government in September
1985. Its objectives include economic growth, improvement in the
productivity of investment, budget equilibrium, and reduction of the
external deficit and external debt. Achievement of these objectives calls
for policy measures, sectoral action plans, and a public investment
program.
B.   First Phase of Execution, 1985-86
6.        A first series of measures has been introduced.  They pertain to
the following sectors:
-    Foreign trade:  The currency devaluation in February 1985 was
followed by the adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy; all
external debt arrears have been cleared and it has been decided
not to contract new loans and to accord the State's guarantee
only to loans which are granted in favorable terms and which
respond to priority needs.
-    Budget policy:  Reduction and regular structural improvement of
the deficit on the financial accounts of the State have been
pursued by stepping up tax collection, revising certain taxation
scales, limiting the number of civil service staff, stabilizing
military expenditures, subsidies and transfers, and eliminating
domestic arrears.
-    Monetary policy:  A limit has been placed on credit to the
economy as well as a freezing of net credit to the Government;
interest rates were raised by 2 percent in February 1985, while
immediate measures were taken to redress the situation in the
banking system so as to speed up the recovery of frozen debts.
-    Price policy:  The list of fixed or capped prices has been
limited to essential products. Moreover, to encourage local
production, prices have been fixed so as to provide an incentive
for farmers. Lastly, prices and tariffs have been adjusted to
reflect the real costs of public enterprises and permit them to
improve their financial situations.
-    Management of the public sector:  The rehabilitation of the five
largest enterprises that began in 1984 has been accelerated.
Closer coordination in investment selection and financing has
been instituted; and the annual investment programs have been
integrated into a multiannual program.



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 30
7.        Thus, after nearly two years of implementation, we are wee on
course in correctinR the major macroeconomic disequilibria. These results
have strengthened the country's external credibility, thus permitting the
mobilization of exceptional aid from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and France
and the successful negotiation of two Stand-by arrangements with the IMF
for SDR 12 million each it April 1985 and May 1986, respectively. In
addition, we have been granted access to the IMF's Structural Adjustment
Facility, and negotiations are currently under way for access to the World
Bank's Special Africa Facility.
8.        During this first phase of execution, the Government's actions
have met with understanding from the people of Mauritania in spite of the
magnitude of the austerity measures. With a return to normal rainfall, the
rural population and many recent emigrants from urban areas have begun
working again in the fields. Private entrepreneurs have reacted favorably
to the more incentive-oriented approach adopted toward them. The
Government is nevertheless aware that the necessary pursuit of the
restructuring efforts will have important sociopolitical repercussions and
that it must remain vigilant and take the necessary follow-up measures.
Its priority concerns are in the area of employment for young people in
urban areas, as well as for those who have lost their jobs. In fact, to
make the public sector more efficient, the Government has abolished the
automatic entitlement to civil service appointment for graduates of the
Higher Education Schools and some enterprises have reduced their staffs.
Nevertheless, this search for efficiency, in a context of financial
austerity, calls for a comprehensive administrative reform as well as more
precisely defined programs of restructuring existing personnel tied to a
policy for integrating young, better-trained graduates. The reduction of
public-sector staff continues to have an adverse effect on public opinion,
while the creation of new jobs is dependent, in the short term, on private
initiatives i-. both the rural and the urban areas. Accelerating these
initiatives depends, in turn, on reforms in the banking system, in our
system of incentives and controls and, in the longer term, in the education
and training system.
9.        Improving the nutritional and health status of the population
remains a priority.  The return of normal rainfall in 1985 unfortunately
does not put an and to the damage caused by the southward expansion of
desertificatlon, an expansion that has destroyed the traditional economy
based on low-density livestock raising and rainfed crops. Improving the
long-term prospects for the welfare of rural populations depends on
advances in protiding safe drinking water and in irrigated farming,
programs which are somewhat behind schedule. For the immediate future, the
Government is redefining its food policy, starting with the use of, and
objectives for, food aid. Although the nutritional situation is still
unsatisfactory both in the areas devastated by the drought and in the urban
informal settlements, the Government has agreed to limit the distribution
of free food aid in order to promote utilization of "Food-for-Work"
programs and thereby help motivated rural and urban communities to execute
works that can create jobs and income and improve living conditions.
10.       the e?cerution of the Recovery Program has also had the immediate
impact of reducing the Public Investment Program (PIP). Although this was
necessa;y in order to enhance the efficiency of the PIP, its depressive



- so -
ANNEX IV
a   4of 30
effect on the economy is being severely felt. The Government has,
therefore, decided, during the second phase of executlon of the Recovery
Program, to actively promote adequate priority programs in order to
stimulate domestic production while pursuing the structural reforms and
keeping tight control over macroeconomic equilibria.
C.   Second Phase of Execution, 1987-88
11.       The ultimate objective of the Recovery Program is to stimulate
local production by revitalizing the production and services structures,
both public and private. Prerequisites for this revitalization are to
improve economic management, to reform the banking system, to prepare
coherent sectoral policies, to make public services to the economy more
efficient, and to create a more favorable environment for the promotion of
private enterprises. Until 1984, in its desire to speed up the tempo of
development, the Government created public entities to make up for the lack
not only of private initiatives, but also of a stimulating or motivating
anvironment which would offer incentives to private initiatives. These
public entities have performed at levels much lower than were expected.
12.       Looking at the result of past activities, the Government proposes
taking a mnore pragmatic approach to the role of the public sector in the
next few years. It will, accordingly, continue its efforts to rehabilitate
public entities by ensuring that they are viable and by calling upon local
or foreign private capital whenever possible to increase their managerial
efficiency. It does not propose to create new public enterprises, nor give
its endorsement to any new private enterprise.
13.       More rapid implementation of the Recovery Program has been
hampered by the weakness of the public sector and the need to assign
priorities among the many recovery measures which are required. Our
efforts will therefore be concentrated on strengthening public sector
management and programming structures, on reform of the banking sector, on
improved control of the prices and marketing structure of essential
products (food and energy), on formulation of strategies in the subsistence
agriculture and fishing sectors, and on promotion of the private sector and
introduction of accompanying social measures.
14.       These efforts are taking the form of priority programs for
pursuing the goals and objectives of the Recovery Program. The purpose of
this letter is to describe how these programs are going to be undertaken
while keeping the budget and the balance of payments under control. It
explains, in particular, the measures taken, or to be taken, between now
and 1988 in order to achieve the quantified goals set forth in the Recovery
Program with respect to budget equilibrium, financing of public investment
through domestic savings, growth of credit, external deficits and external
debt.
15.       The execution of the Recovery Program will continue to depend on
natural or external factors which are particularly preponderant in the case
of Mauritania; in particular, foreign exchange income is totally dependent
on two sectors: iron ore and fishing. Iron mining currently suffers from
a depressed world price for iron ore, and fishing is subject to the growing
risk that current exploitation levels endanger the future of fisheries



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 30
resources. In these circumstances, the second phase of the Recovery
Program can be executed only on the condition that the assistance of major
donors is maintained. In addition to intensified bilateral negotiations
for this purpose, the Government has begun to keep the donors informed on
the preparation of sectoral groups on fishing (early 1988), irrigation
(mid-1988) and potable water (end-1988). It intends to present to the
Second Consultative Group meeting in 1988 an assessment of the actions
taken in the context of the Recovery Program and a new development program
for the period 1989-91, in which the long-term constraints and prospects
will be clearly set forth.
III. CONTROL OF DOMESTIC AND EXTERNAL FINANCIAL DISEQUILIBRIA
A.   Public Finances
16.       Public Revenue.  The tax burden amounts to 28 percent of GDP at
factor cost in 1986. This burden is already high; the Government does not
wish to increase it since that rate already reflects a substantial effort.
In future, the Government proposes to increase assessments and tax
collection and to limit exemptions to well-justified cases.
17.       Applying the recommendations of ongoing studies on taxation of
the mining and fisheries sectors and on industrial enterprises, the
Government will adopt a reform of the Tax Code in 1987 in order to adapt it
to the goals of the Recovery Program. This reform will focus on the
promotion of activities capable of improving foreign exchange receipts,
developing natural resources and creating jobs. For the fisheries and iron
ore sectors, the reform should strengthen their ability to compete with
external competitors. For SNIM, financial equilibrium will be attained
while respecting the commitments made to its creditors. For fisheries,
integration of the sector in the national economy will be a priority.
Similarly, taxation, particularly on energy products, and the system of
incentives to encourage the creation of enterprises will be radically
revised in the context of promotion of the private sector (see section X
below). Implementation of the reform will begin with the 1988 Finance Law.
18.       Operational Expenditures of the Administration.  In order not to
increase the tax burden, balancing the budget calls for corrective action
on the expenditure side. The principles adopted in the Recovery Program
will be applied through a precise program of action. These actions relate
to:
-    capping the civil service wage bill in real terms, at least for
1987 and 1988;
-    improvement of personnel management through computerization of
civil service departments before the end of 1988;
-    revision of the salaries and benefits structure.  A study will be
carried out in 1987 to define a new structure which could be put
into effect progressively, beginning with the 1988 Finance Law;



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 30
-    Improvement of the distribution between salaries and operating
expenditures. This will be brought about through an increase in
operating expenditures in real terms with priority given to the
health sector and improved budget programming, notably by taking
better account of the recurrent expenditures of public
investments; and
-    capping of other current budget expenditures, particularly
subsidies to the public establishments with inadequate
independent incomes through 1988; subsidies to industrial and
commercial establishments were abolished in 1986.
19.       All these measures will prove inadequate in modernizing the
Administration and improving its efficiency in abseAce of further,
far-reaching internal restructuring. The Government has, therefore, asked
each ministerial department to review the appropriateness of its
organization and its human and physical resources in light of its tasks and
responsibilities in the framework of the overall administrative reform,
while respecting strict budgetary discipline. These efforts have already
begun, but it is still too early to draw firm conclusions from them.
20.       The Public Investment Program (PIP).  The Government assigns
absolute priority to improving the management of the PIP. In the first
stage, the PIP provided under the Recovery Program was carefully prepared
and limited to the more profitable projects; the result has been to focus
it on rehabilitation and maintenance of existing plants, projects that
reduce production costs and imports, and projects with immediate effects on
production. This has lead to an appreciable reduction in the ratio of
investment to GDP and to an improvement of the program's financial
structure and thus its overall productivity.
21.       The Government continues to devote close attention to adherence
by the public entities to the goals which have been set. To accomplish
this, in particular, it has taken the following measures:
-    Establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Recovery Program Monitoring
Committee, presided over by the Minister of Economic Affairs and
Finance, and consisting of the Governor of the Central Bank and
the Chief of Staff at the Presidency. The Committee has to
approve all projects entered into and guaranteed by the
Government before they are submitted for external or domestic
financing. The Committee is seconded by a Technical Support
Group composed of senior officials of the economic departments
that prepare its dossiers. In the medium term, project
preparation, appraisal and monitoring procedures will be improved
through the budgetary reform described below.
-    Implementation of Consolidated Budget procedures which group
together in a single document the General Budiet, the capital
expenditures of the State, and the ancillary budgets of the
public entities that lack independent income sources. An annual
investment program for the public sector is also included. The



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 30
first experiment with these procedures took place with the
preparation of the 1987 budget, for which all the public services
had to submit their projects to be executed with external
financing. In addition In April 1987, for the first time a list
of projects for which local funding is needed was submitted for
financing under the Common Fund for counterpart revenues from the
sale of food aid. For the 1988 Budget, an effort will be made to
ensure that recurrent expenditures are carefully estimated and
that those projects are included which will be financed out of
the Common Fund for counterpart revenues from food aid or in the
form of "Food for Work" programs (see section VII).
22.       In conclusion, the Consolidated Budget is expected to be an
effective instrument for improving the coordinated management of the
Government's development activities. This annual program will be the
subject of interministerial discussions to verify its profitability and its
consistency with the goals of the Recovery Program. These discussions will
also ensure its consolidation and arbitrage between sectors in order to
arrive at a PIP which respects the overall financial constraints,
particularly increased financing out of savings and reduction of the
indebtedness rate. In addition, the consolidated Budget will facilitate
continued close collaboration with the donors, on budgetary and project
management procedures. Only proJects that are evaluated and found to be
economically and financially remunerative will be entered in the
consolidated budget.
B.  Mobilization of Domestic Savings
23.       In this area, the goal is to mobilize a critical volume of
savings in order to reduce dependence on foreign capital to finance
investments. Efforts are underway to mobilize: (i) a budget surplus, with
the target of covering 15 percent of public investment in 1988; (ii)
savings by public entities with the help of ongoing rehabilitation
programs; and (iii) private sector savings, which will be encouraged by the
reform of the banking sector.
24.       The budget surplus, projected at 2 percent of GDP in 1987 (1
percent in 1986), will continue to increase as a result of the efforts
already described concerning revenue generation and control of
expenditures. In view of the goal of reducing the country's rate of
indebtedness, the Government's consolidated financial accounts, including
external grants, will progressively be brought into equilibrium. To
achieve that, it will be necessary to mobilize a sufficiently high
percentage of public investment financing out of external grants and loans
on soft terms.
25.       Initially, the public entity savings will have to cover their
debt service obligations in the framework of the specific rehabilitation
programs for the major public enterprises (see section VII). These
enterprises will have to eliminate their arrears. Arrears with the
Government have already been settled in July 1986. Those with the rest the
Administration and the public sector, particularly the banking sector, will
be eliminated by the end of 1988.



54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 30
26.       The mobilization of private savings depends on the success of the
reform of the banking system (see section V). Taking into account the
implementation of the banking sector reform, the Government will prepare a
plan of action for savings mobilization; it will submit the broad lines of
this plan to the Second Consultative Group meeting planned for 1988. Among
the measures already taken, the most important is to keep real interest
rates positive the way they have been since the initial adjustment measures
undertaken in 1985. In addition, measures have been initiated in 1986 to
encourage the mobilization of savings of Mauritanians working abroad.
Another reform planned for 1988 will focus on promoting more efficient
methods for distribution of credit to the economy. In this context,
priority will be given to agriculture and fishing activities, as well as to
small entrepreneurs and artisans.
C.   External Equilibria
27.       The goal of reducing external current account deficits to at
least below 10 percent of GDP in 1988 calls for a coherent set of measures
to promote optimu utilization of foreign exchange. The first measure has
been to set a realistic exchange rate. The policy of combining
devaluations with the setting of a flexible exchange rate allowed an
adjustment in real terms of 22 percent in 1985. This flexible exchange
rate policv rill be pursued in order to preserve the export enterprises'
ability to compete.
28.       A second measure will be to liberalize the present control of
foreign transactions. This will be achieved in stages since the Government
considers that the present economic structures do not permit rapid
deregulation. Beginning in 1986, the opening of convertible accounts in
Ouguiyas was authorized for exporters.
29.       The liberalization policy will begin with simplifying, before the
end of 1987, the system of licenses and revising the Investment Code in
order to establish a more suitable system of protection. The policy will
enter into full effect beginning in 1988.
30.       To be able to relax the exchange control rules, the Central Bank
will have to maintain a high level of reserves in foreign exchange, at
least equivalent to three months of imports of goods and services. Special
foreign aid is needed to reach this resource level.
31.       Achievement of the goal of keeping external deficits under
control will be facilitated by improving management of the economy. To
this end, management of the external debt will be strengthened at the
Central Bank, where computerization is currently proceeding. It will be
extended to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and completed
before the end of 1987. Semi-annual reports will be submitted to the
Inter-Ministerial Monitoring Committee on the development of the principal
aggregates and achievement of the goals set.



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 30
IV. IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
32.       The preparation of the Recovery Program and its first phase of
execution have highlighted the urgent need to strengthen the management of
Mauritania's public sector.
A.   Planning and Management of Public Finances
33.       Through implementation of the consolidated budget, the budgeting
process has been widened, as a first step, to encompass all financial
resources, including food aid. In the medium-term, the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Finance (MEF) will establish an economic and financial
forecasting and monitoring capacity in order to clarify the decision making
process and the major macroeconomic equilibria pursued.
34.       The emphasis will be placed on greater coherence of economic
planning and financial managewent. This has already been reflected in the
merger of the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance. To make
this merger fully operational, the MEF is currently working on a new scheme
of organization based on three major lines of action: (i) more precise
definition of tasks and delegation of responsibilities combined with
stricter performance controls; (ii) adjustment of structures and linkages,
in particular to facilitate the introduction of the consolidated budget,
with the object of improving coordination and making the major
administrative units less unwieldy and more efficient; and (iii)
strengthening of the Ministry's permanent training system. This scheme
will be implemented beginning in May 1987.
B.   Management of Administrative Structures
35.       Achievement of the goals of the Recovery Program calls not simplv
for modification of organizational charts, but for better matching between
structures, functions and human resources which, while taking into account
the budgetary constraint, permits greater administrative efficiency. To
this end, studies will be conducted between v.ow and 1988 of the ministries
chiefly concerned with the Recovery Program, to take stock of their
functions and the human resources available to them so that they may, where
appropriate, be reorganized in accordance with new standards and management
principles. A Departmental Organization Chart will be prepared by the end
of 1988 to define the rules governing the creation, modification, merger
and abolition of major administrative units. Implementation of the
necessary program of action, which will extend over several years, began
with the creation of a Consultative Committee for the Institutional Reform
to be assisted by an Office for Coordination, in February 1987.
C.  Personnel Management
36.       Improving personnel management requires first of all the
development of a manpower planning capacity which will include:
(i) The computerization and harmonization of personnel
administration with financial management. This
opportunity will be used to define clearly the



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page*10 of 30
distribution of responsibilities between the Ministry
of Civil Service, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Finance and the sector ministries. Computerization
will be completed by the end of 1988.
(1i) A review of the civil service and auxiliary staff
regulations with the object of modernizing, harmonizing
and simplifying them. This revision will reintroduce
more precise rules governing access to the various
categories for promotion and advancement. New general
regulations for the civil service will be published in
1989.
(iii) Improvement of management to bring wages and salaries
into line with responsibilities, and to encourage
greater efficiency among the personnel. An audit of
the Payroll office will be carried out and verification
procedures will be drafted and installed in 1987. A
study on fringe benefits will allow the system of
benefits to be readjusted in view of budgetary
constraints and the need to encourage qualified
personnel. A first set of measures will be included in
the 1988 Finance Law.
D.   Improvin  Public Service Efficiency
37.       Pending review by the Government of enterprises with inadequate
independent incomes, the total amount of their subsidies has been
stabilized at its 1985 nominal level through 1987. The Government is
re-examining whether their management autonomy is Justified and will
improve the procedures for preparation of their budgets and the application
of a posteriori controls. Their operating and capital budgets will be
analyzed in the context of the consolidated budgets. For the largest of
such entreprises, multiannual development plans will be prepared by 1988.
They will define the special rules allowing the enterprisess, if their
nature so warrants, to collect resources (or recover costs) to finance part
of their operating expenditures. These establishments include the
University of Nouakchott, which will be discussed in the section on
education policy, the CSA (section on Food Policy) and SONADER (section on
Rural Development). Restructuring programs are already under preparation
for the ORTM (radio and television), AMP (press) and SNPI (newspaper).
38.       Enterprises with Financial Autonomy.  The Government wishes to
limit its participation to those public establishments for which the
private sector cannot provide management. To this end, the Government plans
to review its entire portfolio. For 1987 and 1988, the ongoing effort will
be continued in relation to the four largest enterprises (SNIM, OPT, EMN
and SONELEC) and will be extended to the rehabilitation of SMCPP, PAN,
SOCOGIM and STPN, for which economic, financial and management audits will
be performed. In 1986, the transport monopoly was liberalized. PHARMARIM
(pharmacy) will be dissolved before end-1987.
39.       The Government will evaluate its public sector rehabilitation
policy and the lessons learned from its implementation. It will decide on



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 30
possible privatizations, mergers or closures of existing enterprises. The
results of these studies will be set forth in a special report which the
Inter-Ministerial Committee will complete in 1988. The report will define
the future of the other major existing enterprises (such as ASMAR and Air
Mauritanie) for which rehabilitation programs have not yet been formulated.
A special study will be devoted to the CNSS. The Government will also
consider the mixed-capital enterprises (SEMs), with which the Government
wishes to clarify its relations while safeguarding their autonomy and
limiting the guarantees furnished. It will define the functions of the
State Contracts Commissions, which will be streamlined, and improve the
decentralization of decision-making powers within the public enterprises.
The preparation of these two latter reforms is in progress and new
procedures will be defined before end-1987.
V.   REFORM OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
40.       The Government has studied the diagnosis of the Mauritanian banks
presented in a consuitants' report prepared in 1986. The banking system
continues to suffer from serious financial disequilibria. The substantial
efforts deployed to halt its financial det-.ioration and speed up the
recovery of delinquent credit balances have borne fruit but cannot provide
a permantent remedy for the situation. All the banks except the National
Development Fund (Fonds National de Developpement - FND) and the newly
created Al Baraka Bank (Banque Al Baraka Mauritanienne Islamique -- BAMIS)
are affected by this financial disequilibrium to one degree or another.
The Government has therefore decided to implement a reform of the banking
sector accompanied by immediate measures to halt the deterioration of the
sector.
41.       The principals of this reform will be applied to all primary
banks and the Central Bank. As far as the primary banks are concerned, the
Government intends to designate one institution, for which the State is the
majority shareholder, to concentrate its activities on development
projects. Control of all the other financial institutions will be assumed
by private investors, local or foreign. Foreign banks should play not only
the role of partners, but also assist in managing the institutions. A new
banking law will regulate all future banking activity. The Central Bank,
having returned to its traditional role of ensuring monetary independence,
establishing credit policy and monitoring the primary banks, will have a
key responsibility in guaranteeing that directives are implemented and
banking management ratios respected. The Government will devote itself to
the task of defining the main objectives of the economic incentive policy,
and refrain from interfering in daily management of the banks.
A.   Immediate Measures
42.       These comprise the following:
-    Recovery of outstanding debts:  The Government is giving its
unqualified support to this operation and committees have been
set up within each bank under the surveillance of the Central
Bank. In April 1986, the Gov'rnment took measures to exclude
debtors who have not settled their debts with the banking system



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 30
from access to facilities and advantages, such as the Investment
Code, government contracts, and transfers abroad. Regulations
issued at the end of June 1986 require the banks to refer the
files on frozen credits to a Special Court after a period of more
than one year. The latter has worked with the Government to find
ways of cutting recovery costs by urging the banks to give
priority to pursuing the largest debtors. In 1987, the high cost
of legal proceedings, which has hampered the recovery effort,
will be reduced.
-    Improved credit allocation:  At the beginning of 1986 the Central
Bank limited bank overdraft authorizations to special cases. It
has reviewed its procedures with respect to the collection of
information necessary for a systematic assessment of customer
risks and lending interest rates.
=    Management and profitability of the banks:  Since June 30, 1986,
the banks have no longer included the proceeds of frozen credits
in their operating accounts, and the Ministry of Finance has
decided that the Minimum Flat Rate Tax (Impot Minimum
Forfaitaire) will be levied only on products net of interest
payments on frozen credit accounts.
B. Strengthening of the Central Bank
43.       To ensure proper supervision of the primary banks, the Central
Bank is in the process of undertaking the following measures:
-    Revision of the Banking Law.  This must be adopted in 1987.  The
revision involves adjustments in the functioning of the Banking
Control Commission, raising of the applicable penalties and
re-examination of the governing rules imposed on the banks,
including minimum capital requirements and various other ratios.
-    Credit policy.  This will be reviewed during 1987 and 1988.  In
the immediate future, it will be implemented in view of the
potential impact of the restructuring of the primary banks.
Specifically, a new bank interest rate and commission policy will
be examined in the context of the new banking law in order to
define the refinancing, credit capping and compulsory reserve
systems.
-    Review of organization and methods.  This is aimed at improving
recovery rates and accounting for foreign exchange transactions.
The reorganization, implemented in 1987, includes the Risks
Clearing Rouse (Centrale des Risques), the creation of an
information unit on business activities and the promotion of a
uniform accounting system for the banks.
-    'Strengthening Bank Control.  This department will be reorganized
and equipped with adequate human and material resources to help
it fulfill its functions and to ensure that normal banking
procedures are followed vis-a-vis creditors, debtors and foreign



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 30
partners. Necessary technical assistance will be provided in
1987 to define procedures and train the needed personnel.
C.   Principles of Bank Restructuring
44.       In 1986, the Mauritanian authorities assembled the information
and established the contacts required to formulate a restructuring plan for
each bank. This provided the means for evaluating the financial costs of
this plan and defining the modalities to cover those costs. To define
these plans, it was necessary to ascertain the banks' net assets and
liabilities and the amount of the internal funds to be reconstituted; and
to prepare a complete inventory of government commitments and credit
balances vis-a-vis the banking system.
45.       To implement these restructuring plans, the Government has
accepted the following commitments:
-    to accept the transfer, by April 1987, of all the Central Bank's
capital shares in the banking system, permitting it to reassume a
position of neutrality in the application of the banking
regulations and credit control;
-    to assume all the responsibilities accruing to it in the
restructuring process as shareholder of the banks, as party
responsible for the debt toward the banks, companies and agencies
in which it is a shareholder, and finally as guarantor of loans
granted by the banks, whoever the beneficiary of such guarantees
may be;
-    to consider all solutions that can provide the commercial banks
with a stable financial base. The Government has decided to
withdraw its capital from all the banks, with the exception of
the development bank, or to become a minority shareholder of
certain banks -- if the new private partners so desire.
46.       To be able to clear the balance sheets of the banks, the
financial contributions of the private partners will take a variety of
f;rms (transfers of fresh money, consolidation in the form of capital of
debts due by the bank, etc.). For its part, the Government will furnish
the financial contribution due from it by reason of its responsibilities,
either out of counterpart contributions from external aid that it is able
to mobilize or by allocating all or part of the refinancing already granted
by the Central Bank to compensate frozen debts. If possible, this should
tome directly out of Government resources.
D. Restructuring Plans of the Primary Banks
47.       The broad outlines of the restructuring plans were approved in
March 1987, and their principal components will be implemented by the end
of 1987. The banking system will then consist of:
-    one bank with the State as majority shareholder, which will



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 30
promote Mauritanian enterprises, in particular small- and
medium-size enterprises, in addition to commercial activities.
The Bank will be cerated from the merging of FND and BNDC. This
merger requires an increase in fixed assets in which the
Government wishes to remain in the majority. The current
shareholders of FND and BMDC will be consulted on this merger;
private banks: two such banks will be created from the
restructuring of BIMA and SMB with at least 80 percent of equity
allocated to private investors, local or foreign. The two
private banks - BALM and MCI - are in the process of
implementing financial and management measures in order to
conform with the new banking rules. Finally, a bank under
Islamic law - BAMIS - will be subject to a special ruling to be
prepared by the Central Bank before December 1987. In view of
the limited development possibilities of the Mauritanian
financial market and the limited availability of skilled
managers, the Government will leave the choice to the bank's
private shareholdersas to whether or not to exploit the economies
of scale that could result from the eventual merger of certain
banks.
48.       Until the restructuring plans have been completely implemented
and the previously mentioned objectives have been attained, the Central
Bank will maintain refinancing facilities which should be in line with
monetary policy and treat all banks equally.
49.       In the course of preparing, approving and implementing the
restructuring plans, the Government will ensure that the following targets
are undertaken: first, balance sheets will be cleansed In order to secure
the banks' liquidity and guarantee that financial ratios, as required by
the banking law, will be reached after an adjustment period; and adequate
management systems and qualified senior and support staff will be put in
place. To that end:
-    The Government will sign a cession a8reement with banks to be
restructured (BMDC/FND, BINA, SMB) in which the following will be
specified: financial conditions of ownership transfer, and
financial restructuring with a timetable of implementation steps.
The Government agrees to assume the fiuancial commitments to
foreigners which are due but unpaid.
-    The Government will assume all doubtful and frozen credits
granted to state-owned enterprises by the banking system. These
credits, now deducted from the banks' assets, will be compensated
by an equivalent amount deducted from the debt to the Central
Bank and by a share of the fixed assets belonging to the State.
The Central Bank will sign a contract-plan with each bank in
which it will approve the above objectives, the measures needed
to fulfill them and the implementation schedule. This
contract-plan will indicate the functions and designating rules
of the Board and of the General Manager in order to ensure
responsible and autonomous management.



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 30
VI. STRENGTHENING SECTORAL POLICIES
50.       In view of the constraints previously mentioned, the Government
is confronted with difficult choices in the areas of sectoral development
and financial and human resources needs. This letter focuses on policies
in four productive sectors: energy, food policy, rural development and
fisheries; and on the efforts to promote the private sector and strengthen
social policies. However, before coming to these sectors, we would like to
describe efforts underway to rehabilitate the SNIM iron ore company and to
improve the country's transport and telecommunications networks.
A.   SNIM Rehabilitation
51.       SNIM is facing a declining world market for iron ore which, in
1986, permitted it to export only 8.9 million tons at an F.O.B. price
reduced by 10 percent in real terms over the previous year. This situation
has brought about serious cash flow difficulties. At the same time, the
start-up of the Guelbs mine has been hampered by technical difficulties.
SNIM management confronted this situation with measures to cut operating
and overhead costs. Prospects are, however, worrisome in view of a selling
price which is expected to continue to decline in real terms. Without
further action, SNIM will be confronted with a structural financial deficit
after amortization, debt servicing and payment of the 10 percent sales tax.
52.       SNIM has, therefore, implemented a very strict recovery program,
including a reduction of its staff by 15 percent and a program to cut costs
and improve factor productivity. The Government is fully aware of SNIM's
key role in the Mauritanian economy providing 40 percent of its export
revenues for goods, and that SNIN's continued operations remain vital for
the country's regional balance. The Government is therefore ready to
adjust its fiscal system to allow SNIM to cope with its financial
situation. In 1987, for example, the Government agreed to a 50 percent
reduction in royalty payments. In April 1987, these prospects and the
measures undertaken by SNIM were presented at a meeting of SNIM's
co-lenders in an effort to secure further support which may be required
during this difficult period.
B. The Tranaport and Telecommunications Networks
53.       Under the Recovery Program the main objective is to improve and
maintain existing infrastructure by rehabilitating and strengthening the
public entities responsible for managing them. The drafting of a long-term
strategy and a coherent action and investment program will be started in
the context of the 1989-91 Development Plan.
54.       The road transportation sector is the most vulnerable component,
since the service provided is very inadequate. Its development is hampered
by network maintenance costs which can no longer be carried by the Central
Budget and for which foreign aid is being sought.
55.       The OPT (Post and Telecommunications) must, within its management
responsibilities, absorb the operation of the satellite telecommunication
facilities, which became operational in November 1985 and which have
spectacularly improved international service, thereby helping the export



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 30
sectors. The OPT is thus focussing on the installation of functional
accounting and efficient maintenance services and of tariffs which do not
impair the ability of these enterprises to compete. At the current level
of tariffs, even adjusted for domestic inflation, the OPT cannot be assured
of financial viability without the restructuring of its debt, and the
Government is currently negotiating this.
56.       The EMN (Nouakchott wharf) will examine its structure im 1987
with a view towards managing the port recently built by the People's
Republic of China. The method of management of the port, the principles of
rate-setting and the scheduling of any necessary supplemental investments
will be defined in a study beginning in July 1987. As part of the
promotion of the fisheries sector (see Part IX), the Notiadhibou Port
Authority (PAN) will be rehabilitated and a fishing port will be developed.
VII.   ENERGY POLICY
57.       The Government formulated a coherent long-term sertor strategy in
January 1987, including, in particular:
-    a liberal pricing policy which fosters energy conservation and
substitution among energy products;
-    in the short-term, giving priority to the rehabilitation of the
public enterprises in this sector; and
-    in the medium-term, measures to restore the country's ground
cover and to combat desertification;
58.       Implementation of this strategy is underway, and the following
measures have been taken or are in progress:
-    Pricing policy.  The system of setting and adjusting prices of
liquid energy products using world prices for reference was made
official in March 1987. This principle will also be applied when
local needs are supplied by the Nouadhibou refinery. Under this
system implemented in April 1987, the price structure includes
all real marketing costs. The tax earmarked for the Development
Support Fund, established at the wholesale level, will be applied
to all categories of consumers. A joint commission (State,
business groups) will be reactivated to adjust the tariff
structure. To this end, the commission's composition will be
reviewed and its operational modalities redefined before July
1987. Before this date, a Technical Committee on prices will
also be established. Its responsibility will be to prepare
quarterly price adjustment declarations for combustible liquids
and gas. At the same time, a study, planned for 1987, will
provide the basis for a new system of setting electricity
tariffs, to be introduced by the end of the year. It will
recommend a method for setting tariffs for various consumer
groups and will examine, in particular, tariff-setting for export
activities, the Impact of istegrating SNIM into the Nouadhibou
network and the new Nouakchott power station. These tariffs
should ensure SONELEC's financial viability, i.e. ensure the



-63-
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 30
necessary resources to cover its operating costs, its debt
service on credits onlent by the State and a net self-financing
rate which will provide at least 15 percent of investment costs
for the electricity sector.
Definition of the role of the public sector.  The public sector
iill continue to play a central role in the implementation of the
sector strategy. This role includes supervision of the
agreemonts between the Nouadhibou refinery and the importers and
distributors, monitoring of imports, transportation and
distribution, which will be subjected to greater competition, and
promoting measures to conserve and develop renewable energy
sources. The ministerial departments with responsibility for
this sec%.r will be reorganized and strengthened under the
administrative reform. The importation of petroleum products
will be liberalized and a covenant regulating importation and
marketing activity will be produced before 1987. Nevertheless,
the SMCPP's role of guaranteeing reliable national supply in
adequate quantities will be maintained. The rehabilitation
programs for SONELEC and SMCPP will continue with the
installation of analytic accounting systems, an efficient system
of bill collection, and a training and recycling program for
personnel combined with revision of salary scales. These
programs will be finalized in late 1987 for SMCPP and early 1988
for SONELEC. By then, SONELEC's financial viability will be
assured by a combination of measures including:
(a) reduction of technical losses, made possible through the
rehabilitation of power stations and the strengthening of
the transmission and distribution network;
(b) improvement of billing and collections through a survey of
customers and a computerized billing statement; and
(c) a periodic adjustment of tariffs taking into account
variations in operating costs. A tariff increase of 15
percent was decided in August 1986 at the same time as a
price reduction for diesel fuel used by SONELEC; a further
tariff increase of 10 percent is planned for July 1987.
For SONELEC to achieve financial equilibrium between now and
1989, the Government will increase its equity in parallel with
the implementation of a contract-plan that includes targets for
increased productivity.
59.       Energy conservation and promotion of alternative energy sources.
With respect to energy savings, incentives will be developed to encourage
the largest induetrlal consumers and transport companies to undertake
energy audits. The promotion of alternative energy resources will have to
be integrated into a spaecial program emphasizing economical techniques and
energy substitution.  The conservation of ground cover and the promotion of
reforestation will be stepped up, particularly in production zones
(irrigated perimeters, otsist etc.) and in inhabited areas. In this
context, a strategy ovn the optimal utilization of household energy



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 30
(popularizing improved wood burning stoves, expanding the use of butane,
promoting lamp oil, etc.) will be defined and implemented.
60.       Multiannual investment program.  This focuses on rehabilitation
and optimal use of the existing plants and on experimental programs in
areas of water heating, pumping, electriclty generation, optimal
utilization of household energy and reforestation, which respond to the
goals summarized above. These programs will be financed by grants or
quasi-grants, including coverage of recurrent expenditures, and will be
supported by "Food-for-Work" projects (e.g., tree planting for
multipurpose) or community participations. The Government wishes to
encourage a more rigorous approach by donors to applied research and
necessary experimentation to prepare large-scale programs based on
appropriate and economical techniques.
VIII. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND FOOD POLICY
61.       The development of agricultural production, of livestock and of
other rural income-generating activities are among the Government's highest
priorities. Although the importance of developing irrigation is undeniable
and Mauritania's natural conditions create serious constraints, efforts
will focus on rehabilitating and improving conditions for production under
rainfed, flood-recession, and traditional dam-building techniques which
represent a large share of national production and play an important role
in rural sector activities. Similarly, livestock activities will be
strengthened so that they will continue to represent the largest share of
GNP in the agricultural sector and ensure Mauritania's self-sufficiency in
meat.
62.       In view of the vital importance of this sector to Mauritania's
future development, the Government is finalizing an action program for the
next few years. This program, designed to achieve the goals of the
Recovery Program, will be presented to the donors at a Sector Meeting on
rural development scheduled for 1988. The program will emphasize improved
water management for irrigation and policies to promote and support
agricultural production. The program will include investments consisting
chiefly of a master plan for irrigated perimeters in the Senegal River
Valley, while taking into account the importance of rainfed and
flood-recession cultivation (walo, traditional dam-building). Furthermore,
the program will seek to consolidate projects already in progress to
correct structural deficiencies that threaten their sub.ainability.
63.       The priority accorded to water management, in order to be fully
justified, must take into account the following considerations:
-    within the framework of the OMVS program, and in light of the
prohibitive costs of irrigated perimeters, water management
schemes must serve to recreate natural flooding patterns and
allow cultivation techniques which are more easily mastered; and
-    the priority placed on water management must be broadly defined,
making use of this resourre wherever it may be found (streams,
dam-building, underground sources).



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 30
A.   Agricultural Sector Strategy
64.       The Government will intensify its efforts to improve food
security and provide employment and income for the rural population. In
the short-term, the strategy aims to (i) support local agricultural
production with renumerative producer prices, (ii) assure an adequate
domestic food supply at reasonable prices, and (iii) mobilize resources to
finance development activities.
1.   Cereals pricing policy
65.       Coverage of food needs in Mauritania depends on a small, but
increasing amount of national production as well as on a large volume of
food aid and commercial imports of cereals and wheat flour. The selling
price of food imports (food aid and commercial imports) is, therefore, the
determining factor for market prices of local production. For this reason,
adequate incentives and protection of local production may prove necessary.
In addition, the price structure must not give rise to illicit trading
which undermines the policy of promoting local production. However, this
should not prove difficult given that Mauritania's neighbors are pursuing
similar policies to protect their producers.
66.       The pricing system will be based on a liberalization of marketing
and processing channels. To support the goals of its food policy, the
Government will introduce a system of reference prices for local production
which will include: first, a floor price which incorporates an adequately
remunerative producer price and the average transport cost from production
areas to CSA purchasing centers; second, a "ceiling price" for the purchase
of final products which includes the floor price, processing and
distribution costs and profit margins which provide adequate incentives at
all stages of marketing; and third, a ceiling price for sales which will be
guaranteed by CSA and SONIMEX. The adoption of such a system will provide
a better price guarantee for producers and will allow consumers to benefit
from private sector intervention - especially through cooperative groups
-- while retaining CSA's role as guarantor of floor and ce'--ing prices.
Consequently, reference prices will be adjusted annually to support the
goals defined above, while the level of protection accorded to local
production, processing, and marketing will be reduced to favor the most
efficient operations.
67.       To ensure that the objectives of the pricing policy are achieved,
the annual food programming exercise will take into account the need to
limit free distributions of food aid to the needy who are unable to work,
and to promote "food-for-work" programs for those who can.
68.       A study of the cereals sector, which was presented in March 1987,
will be used to define the precise procedures for determining and adjusting
cereals prices. After discussions with the donors, this new pricing
structure will be finalized and adopted in October 1987.
2.   Marketina policy
69.       The same study will help in defining more efficient marketing



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 30
channels which will promote private sector involvement through adequate
remuneration of services. In view of the unique characteristics of its
food policy, the Government will retain its role of importer via SOMINEX,
which can negotiate bilateral agreements on more advantageous terms than
through traditional channels. A management audit of SOMINEX will be
undertaken before the end of 1987.
70.       The Government has accepted the principle of private sector
marketing of food aid and will determine the precise procedures for it with
the donor community. However, CSA will maintain all or part of its
national network of sales centers and will apply a policy of maintaining a
minimum stock in its centers in order to continue playing its role of
guaranteeing food security and stabilizing the cereals market. This will
avoid sudden and excessive price fluctuations which could result from
speculation by local merchants. These measures will serve to test the
capacity and efficiency of the private sector. In addition, CSA initiated
its own reorganization plan in 1986, which will include a reorientation of
its activities to reflect the new goals defined under the food policy. In
particular, CSA will ensure food security in all regions of the country,
and administer food aid in ways which promote development activities, in
close cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development. To permit CSA to
play its full role in regulating and stabilizing prices, a reimbursable
crop season credit will be allocated each year as part of CSA's budgeting
process. The reorganization will also include the installation of cost
accounting, management and programming systems, as well as plans for
nationalizing personnel and for privatizing transport and processing
activities.
3. Private sector incentives policy
71.       The purpose of this policy is two-fold: to interest entrepreneurs
in developing agro-food operations -- which can range from a family farm
marketing a modest surplus, to larger-scale agribusiness operations -- and
to promote associated upstream and downstream activities, most notably,
food processing, such as rice milling. The operational details of this
policy are currently being studied. The first principle applied, in effect
since January 1986, was to eliminate all subsidies on inputs and to
liberalize their trade. Other incentives, including agricultural credit
and measures to promote SMEs (see section X), will depend on both the
banking sector reform and the adoption of an incentive policy for
agricultural production. Finally, this policy will be examined in the more
general context of the national spatial planning policy. The Government
plans to improve coordination between the development of rural agricultural
areas and the associated service infrastructures and urban framework
necessary for balanced and sustained development.
4. Environmental protection policy
72.       In response to the deterioration of the environment, the
Government needs to intensify its priority work program, to slow down
deforestation, to encourage replanting and to bring about a better balance
between livestock herding and crop farming. In particuiar, this policy
will include components for the protection of wells and settlement areas.
Reliance on improved dwelling sites as a means to combat desertification



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 30
will be encouraged. The Government is seeking grant financing for pilot
projects aimed at developing better methods of environmental protection.
Finally, reforestation/conservation projects will be developed in the
framework of Food-for-Work programs, in areas surrounding irrigation works,
in cultivated areas, and in principal villages and roads.
5.   Institution strengthening policy
73.       The Ministry of Rural Development will be strengthened under the
administrative reform program which has already been defined. Priority has
been accorded to SONADER, which is completing an organizational
restructuring plan the main purpose of which is to streamline its stru-ture
by transferring all activities other than the management of irrigation
investments to other Government services. It is now well-managed and has
installed a functional budgeting process. Its budget is annexed to the
Government's annual consolidated budget. Its supervision should be
tightened, while maintainiug management autonomy. An action program, which
will lead to greater decentralization of its activities, will be
coordinated with the master plan for irrigation development.
B.   Food Policy
74.       In light of Mauritania's structural food deficit, the country
will continue to depend on food imports, particularly in the form of aid,
for many years to come. It iust endeavor to reduce this dependence as far
as its natural resources permit, using food aid to promote the necessary
structures and means to do so. To that end, a close coordination is being
developed between the Government and the major food aid donors in order to
implement a coherent food policy which includes the following components:
1.   The Annual Food Program
75.       This program (Programme Alimentaire Annuel -  PM) is drawn up
each November and serves as the basis for determining the importation and
distribution needs as defined by the food security policy, taking into
account the size of the country, the sharp fluctuations in local
production, the weakness of the marketing network, and the need to maintain
emergency stocks. The first PAA was established in December 1986. On the
basis of the results of previous years, the PAA establishes, for each
region, the expected volume of local production and the need for
distribution of free food aid, Food-for-Work (FFW) programs, special
programs, and sales of food aid. In preparing the PAA, the Government
intends to limit free aid to the truly needy, reducing generalized free
food distributions and replacing them with Food-for-Work programs or
special programs (e.g., for children under five, pregnant women, the sick
and the handicapped). It therefore proposes to reduce free food
distribution progressively over the next few years from the peak level in
1985 of 65,000 tons. The amount will not exceed 30,000 tons in 1987,
thanks to the return of normal rainfall. It will be only in emergency
cases, verified jointly with the donors, that exceptional aid will be
granted in addition to the programmed regional allocations. In addition,
SONIMEX, in preparing its import program, will take into account: (a) the
growing volume of national cereals production; and (b) the volume of food
aid sales earmarked to finance development projects through the Common Fund



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 30
for counterpart revenues. The procedures for annual food programming, in
which SONIMEX will take part, will be adopted by the Government before
October 1987.
2.   The aid budget
76.       The preparation of this budget will be facilitated by the PAA, a
cost accounting system within the CSA, and its inclusion in the
consolidated budget. The budget will include the costs of local
purchasing, the distribution of free food and special programs, the
supervision of Food-for-Work programs, the management of the Common Fund,
and the fixed costs of the CSA. The first budget prepared in this manner
was for 1987 and was approved by the Government/donors monitoring committee
in April 1987.
3.   Food-for-Work (FFW) programs
77.       Beginning in 1987, all Food-for-Work projects will be coordinated
in a program appended to the consolidated budget. These projects will be
prepared by the technical ministries in cooperation with the communities
concerned and interested NGOs. The FFW program must be approved by the
Government and the donors. Its purpose, among others, will be to
supplement financing and contribute to recurrent expenditures for projects
underway, to develop projects that improve living conditions either in
rural areas (reforestation, portable water) or in towns (cleanliness,
public utility works) and, in particular, to furnish the local-currency
counterpart for development projects in the form of labor and revenues.
The Government, in cooperation with the donors, has begun to develop, in a
pragmatic way, a national Food-for-Work strategy which includes a
methodology for project appraisal and monitoring which will be adopted
before the end of 1987.
4.   The Common Fund
78.       A Common Fund was set up in 1986 to use the counterpart funds
from food aid sales to finance development projects, particularly to
improve food security. These projects, like the Food-for-Work program,
form an integral part of the consolidated budget and are approved by the
Government and then by the various donors. Operating procedures have been
established and the Fund is managed by a joint committee of the Government
(represented by the CSA) and the donors. This committee approves the
program to be financed, based on a list of projects proposed by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, and then supervises its implementation. A
first list, for local expenditures of UM 300 million, was submitted for
financing in March 1987.
79.       In conclusion, the Government stresses the innovative character
of many of the approaches adopted In this new food policy, to which it
attaches very special importance. It has initiated an open and confident
dialogue with the donors and international institutions concerning this
policy. The procedures defined in 1986 will be evaluated and revised to
take advantage of the lessons of experience.



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 23 of 30
IX. FISHERIES POLICY
80.       In 1979 Mauritania instituted a fisheries policy -- the Nouvelle
Politique de P^eche (NPP) -- through which it has been able to develop a
national fishing fleet and fisheries infrastructure. This has increased
budgetary and export revenues, resulting in a positive trade balance in
1985. However, the Government recognizes that the economy is not reaping
all the potential benefits of this sector. The Recovery Program included
an initial diagnosis of the sector's constraints. The Government plans to
discuss this diagnosis with the principal donors at a Fisheries Sector
Meeting in early 1988.  It would like to increase awareness among the
participants of the vital importance of effectively exploiting the
resources of the sea and of the efforts that have been undertaken to
control illegal fishing, integrate the sector more fully into the economy
and promote associated artisanal activities. It will present its new
strategy, and the action program required to reach its objectives, at the
sector meeting.
81.       This action program, based on studies carried out in 1986, will
seek to implement the new strategy that the Government endorsed in April
1987. The strategy is incorporated in a Policy Statement on Sector
Development which outlines the long-term objectives, the major development
comapnents and the principle means to undertake them. This Statement
emphasizes the rational exploitation of fisheries resources in the
Mauritanian Exclusive Economic Zone in order to optimize the economic rent
and the net national value-added of the sector, while ensuring the
protection and preservation of fisheries stocks, and the equilibrium of the
maritime ecosystem. This strategy takes as its starting point the fact
that present fishing activities threatened to exceed the quantities allowed
to ensure stock preservation. Consequently, this capacity will be
carefully monitored to avoid exceeding permissible quantities, using a
system of fishing permits adjusted on an annual basis. This system will
give priority to integrated operations which increase the net national
value-added, i.e. artisAnal fishing/ice boats/fresh exports/on-shore
processing and freezing. The Government will establish an incentive
system, most notably through fiscal measures, to improve the profitability
and competitiveness of these integrated operations.
82.       The action program consists of four priority components, each
with its institutional, regulatory and promotional subcomponents and a list
of investment projects. These components are as follows:
-    R                                   This includes strengthening of
the analytic and research capacities of the National
Oceanographic and Fisheries Research Center (CNROP). The Center
will be responsible for defining and monitoring fishing zones by
species and by type of fishing, taking into account the
reproduction potential of the various species.
-    Follow-up, Monitoring, and Surveillance.  An annual program for
granting fishing permlts will be established which limits fishing
activities to within permissible catching volumes and enforces
regulations applicable to the different zones. A system will be
adopted and provided with all the legal, logistical, and manpower



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Page 24 of 30
resources needed to monitor the exploitation of national waters,
coordinate the civil and military agencies responsible for
surveillance and ensure consistent processing of all available
information. The Government will rigorously apply all measures
deemed necessary to avoid overfishing of its resources.
-    Training. A methodology will be defined, based on existing or
newly-created programs, to train or recycle sufficient mianpower
with the qualifications required, taking into account the fishing
and processing techniques to be promoted.
-    Institutions and Economic Environment.  All regulations and
procedures which have been applied to activities in the sector
will be revised and updated. The Government has established a
technical group to prepare the necessary institutional and
regulatory reforms and the new measures arising from the
recommendations of the studies carried out in 1986. It will
negotiate revised agreements with its foreign partners in
accordance with the new strategy and will adopt the set of new
measures before the Sector Meeting. Priority will be given to
revising the fiscal and tariff structures of the public utilities
serving the fishing sector (energy products, water, electricity)
and to the development of bank credit following the banking
sector reform. The entire body of laws and regulations is
currently under review, especially those governing labor, with a
view to liberalizing recruitment, as well as those concerning the
operation of fishing vessels and processing units.
83.       The complexity of these measures to be implemented require that
the Ministry of Fisheries (MPEM) strengthen its capacities in 1987, by
assessing the adequacy of its staff for these tasks and instituting a
basic/refresher training program. In this regard, a new unit responsible
for coordinating surveillance -- the Fisheries Control Center-- will be in
place by October 1987.
84.       While one of the goals of the fisheries strategy is the full
utilization of existing processing facilities at Nouadhibou, the Government
recognizes that this must be achieved under conditions of competitiveness
and profitability. All on-shore fisheries infrastructure will be
rehabilitated to enable the national fishing fleet to operate
competitively. Activities will include renovation of infrasturcture, the
organization and management of the Port of Nouae .ibou (PAN) and the
creation of artisanal fishing facilities. The Government will encourage
the private sector to develop a private shipyard at Nouadhibou to help in
the maintenance of the national fleet. In addition, all ancillary services
(in particular, ship's chandlers) will be encouraged.
85.       Marketing activities will also be encouraged, particularly a
diversification toward the local market or African markets Prices and
marketing channels in the national market will be liberalized in order to
encourage fishermen and increase their production. Sales and
diversification opportunities, whether in terms of species or of markets,
will be developed for both fresh and processed fish. This diversification
will complement frozen fish marketing activities carried out by the Public



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 25 of 30
Marketing Company (SMCP). This company, which registers very satisfactory
commercial and financial results, will continue to work with the private
sector entrepreneurs. The Government would like SMCP to play a larger role
in promotion and diversification, It will also seek financing for
artisanal and industrial boats on advantageous terms to minimize the impact
of the debt service on the balance of payments. A similar effort will be
made to analyze the viability of mixed-capital enterprises. The necessary
measures will be taken to ensure their profitability and financial
viability; these will be accompanied by a rehabilitation of on-shore
facilities in Nouadhibou.
86.       In conclusion, the Government recognizes the decisive role that
the development of the fisheries sector must play in creating employment
and generating revenues and in maintaining an equilibrium in the trade
balance and Government budget over the medium-term.
X.   PROMOTION OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
87.       In order to diversity the economic foundation of the country,
accelerate economic growth and create more jobs, the Government is giving
priority to the promotion of small- and medium-sized enterprises. This
decision is dictated, on one hand, by the inconclusive experience of the
State in the industrial sector where most investments have proven
unprofitable, and, on the other, by the desire of the State to disengage
itself from sectors in which the private sector is most efficient. The
Government will concentrate its efforts on the creation of an appropriate
environment based on incentives and on an institutional infrastructure
which will allow expansion of the sector. The emphasis will be put on
improving the management of basic facilities and providing reliable public
services. This State action should not create distortions between
different sectors of the economy as in the past, when private initiative
was most often directed towards commercial activities. Other sectors such
as agriculture and its associated sectors, the modern artisanal sector in
the cities, transportation and services should attract private investment.
88.       Along these lines, the Government has put in place several
incentives for private sector development such as the Investment Code,
promotional institutions such as the CEPI and lines of credit for financing
small and medium-scale enterprises. This action has lead to the creation
of more than 30 new private enterprises. However, the concentration of
these entities in limited sectors, the absence of selectivity in the Code,
operational problems of the CEPI and the distortions created by often rigid
regulations have all reduced the impact of these incentives. Therefore,
the Government has decided to implement a new incentive system including
revisions of the Investment Code, the fiscal system, procedures and
taxation for imports and the pricing system. To accomplish this, the
Government has begun a study of which recommendations will be available in
June 1987. This study should provide a coherent policy framework for
promoting increased competitiveness and creating a healthy rivalry among
enterprises. The elements of this policy framework will be the easing of
import restrictions, the simplification of agreement procedures under the
Code and a reduction of effective protection. It will be complemented by



- 72
ANNEX IV
Page 26 of 30
the development of institutions responsible for promoting the creation of
private enterprises, a prerequisite for which is the reform of the banking
sector now in progress. In addition, in view of the weakness of the
natural resource base, enterprises with foreign partners will be
encouraged; however, a study is needed to identify the types of actions
required to facilitate such enterprises.
89.       In view of the magnitude of the structural constraints which
confront the development of the sector (lack of infrastructure and limited
local markets), it will take some time for all these reforms to be
assimilated and to exert their full impact. Moreover, the Government is
anxious to alleviate the effects of a possible economic recession during
this intermediate period; however, its means of action remain limited. It
therefore proposes to develop the confidence of potential investors by
clarifying the incentive system and stepping up its dialogue with
representatives of private enterprises concerning the suitability of the
measures already taken, adjusting them if experience so warrants. It has
repeatedly affirmed its determination to permit the development of a
dynamic and competitive private sector. The Government, however, wishes to
make clear that while the principle of deregulation of trade is accepted,
as a matter of day-to-day practice, it remains necessary to eliminate tax
fraud which reduces the incentives to produce locally.
XI. SOCIAL POLICIES
90.       Before discussing the actions that will be taken to soften the
social impact of the adjustment program, it is necessary to recall the
present living conditions of the majority of the population. Until the
early 19709, our society's rules had been shaped by centuries of tradition
and adaptation to ecological conditions. The deterioration of these
conditions and the disruptions caused by external influences have subjected
our traditional society to enormous pressures which have changed our way of
life and our ethnic and family solidarities. The shock caused by these
changes, the population shifts toward new living areas, and rapid
urbanization have not yet been absorbed by and integrated into our society.
The Government, therefore, needs to reflect on these problems and help the
population to overcome them,
91.       At the same time, the Government is conscious of the constraints
on its means of action and, therefore, does not wish to commit itself to a
social policy that would generate budget crises. It has decided on a
prudent approach to these problems while recognizing that it must face up
to them in order to alleviate the lmpact of the austerity measures on the
poorest segments of the population. Its primary objective is to ensure
that the essential needs of the population are met and to develop new forms
of collective associations within the new sociological structures imposed
by drought and desertification. In order to collect needed data on the
social impact of readjustment measures, a permanent household survey was
started in October 1986. The survey will provide important data on
Mauritania's different social groups which will be used to define correct
measures.
92.       The first priority is to ensure that food needs are satisfied.
This explains the importance assigned to the food policy discussed earlier



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
age 27 of 30
and to the utilization of aid to promote development at the community
level. The second priority is to promote health, an area in which previous
efforts have not produced satisfactory results. The current system has a
high budgetary cost which has not produced any appreciable improvement in
the healtb status of the population. The Government proposes to define a
far-reaching reform of the health sector. However, it has taken emergency
measures in line with the goals of the Recovery Program. The major measure
is to increase the budget appropriation for purchases of health care
products and equipment so as to ensure better utilization of existing
facilities. The second measure has been to develop basic preventive
medicine in close cooperation with non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
The Government wishes to pursue the NGO approach which stresses the
involvement of communities in the construction and operation of medical
facilities. This effort will be sustained in the framework of the "Food-
for-Work" projects. The third emergency measure concerns potable water
supply (see paras. 100-101 below); this will be a decisive factor in
improving health conditions in rural areas and in urban spontaneous housing
areas. A final measure will be to authorize the creation of pri'vate health
facilities and help them gain access to credit.
93.       A major cause for concern on the part of the Government is the
growing unemployment among young people. The short-term outlook is
disquieting because the stabilization of the public-sector labor force
means that Job creation will depend directly on the promotion of private
enterprises. Although our development policy has been formulated to
provide the country with structures offering greater incentives in this
field, entrepreneurs will take some time to adapt and react to them. The
Government wishes to set up special funds in 1987 to encourage the creation
of individual enterprises; it has already established the Fund for Entry
and Re-entry into Economic Life (Fond d'Insertion et Reinsertion dans la
Vie Active - FIRVA), which is designed to encourage young and retired
public-sector managers to set up enterprises of their own. This Fund got
off to an excellent start in 1986. The Government has asked that the
Food-for-Work programs give attention to the problem of job creation in the
rural areas.
94.       A final priority is housing, a field in which the Government's
past interventions have not produced desired results. In the context of
public sector rehabilitation, SOCOGIM is currently undergoing a thorough
audit. A study on housing policy is under way which will make
recommendations on SOCOGIM's role as promoter and define a more suitable
framework for the promotion of private initiative.
95.       More generally, thinking on future social policy will be enriched
by the recommendations that emerge from the ongoing spatial development
studies. These studies should lead, in the 1989-91 Economic and Social
Development Plan, to a better understanding of the linkages between the
location of investments and other public actions and regional development
potential. In an approach of this kind, better allocation of social
expenditure will be another factor in strengthening the effectiveness of
the actions of the Government and of the public sector in general.
Moreover, the assumption of responsibility for social policy by the
autonomous local authorities (communes) created in 1986 will be given
further support.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Page 28 of 30
96.       The Government realizes, however, that social policy cannot
ignore the question of population growth and the need to tailor the growth
rate to the real economic growth possibilities. It therefore wishes to
develop basic education, dispensed at the family level, to convince the
population of the benefits of adapting family size to available family
income. Care will have to be taken to respect people's religious and
cultural traditions and to avoid clashing with their convictions. The
Government is convinced that the package of measures described, aimed at
developing education, basic health and community development, will have a
positive impact on the perception of the importance of this problem at the
family level.
A.   Training Policy
97.       The Government has set up a National Education Reform Commission
to review the entire education system which, in spite of its very high
cost, has not produced the expected results. The reform is a difficult one
to define because it has to take into account the growing number of young
people for whom the State wishes to provide a basic education within the
strict limits imposed by public finances. 'he basic data for the design of
the reforms should become available in 1987 and its general outline s1z.*ild
be ready in time for presentation to the Second Consultative Group. The
Government has also undertaken a large adult literacy program and set up
for this effort a secretariat charged with combatting illiteracy.
98.       With respect to immediate action, it is necessary to begin
implementing goals of the Recovery Program in this sector, namely: to
promote more rapid expansion .of primary education; to enhance the
efficiency of the system; and to meet the real needs of the economy. The
Government is currently analyzing the results of a study of unit costs by
type of education cycle which was completed in February 1987. The study
confirms the high cost of Mauritania's education system, in particular
university education, and stresses the necessity of making difficult
changes in the allocation of budgetary resources. The strategy for the
next few years is to avoid increasing education's share of the national
budget and to radically revise its structure in order to give priority to
primary education. Initial measures will be introduced with the 1988
Finance Law.In addition, the Government emphasises the preparation of
training programs in all the sectoral activities that it has undertaken
(particularly, administrative reform, the banking system, fishing and
agriculture). It will be necessary to experiment with educational models
that are adapted to the people's needs and that take account of the
necessity to inculcate into young people the ability to adapt to
technological changes and to create a better understanding of the
constraints under which their country has to operate.
99.       Pending its decisions to finalize the reform, the Government has
taken the decision to concentrate on better utilization of the existing
technical and higher education schools. With the restriction on
recruitment in the public sector, the existing institutions will have to
convert and specialize in order to meet the needs arising out of the
administrative reform, rehabilitation of the public enterprises and other
goals of the Recovery Program. A "think tank" will, therefore, review in



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
Page 29 of 30
1987 the entire vocational and technical training structures in order to
draw a reorganization plan for after 1988. Over the short term, the
Government will need foreign assistance to finance training auroad in the
specialties in which domestic capacity is lacking.
B.   Potable Water Strategy
100.      In view of the vital role of potable water, olicy in Mauritania,
the Government is currently preparing a multiannual action program which it
plans to present to a Donor Sector Meeting in 1988. The Recovery Program's
goals for potable water and sanitation will be actively pursued. These
include, in particular, bringing water supply to 30 percent of the rural
population, who will assume responsibility for maintenance. For urban
centers, the Government will continue to rehabilitate SONELEC in order to
improve urban water distribution and drainage in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou
and in the other population centers.
101.      These objectives will be pursued through the following actions:
-    Tariff policy.  The objective of this policy, together with the
electricity tariffs, will be to secure SONELEC's financial
autonomy (for details, see the above section on energy, para. 57
et seq.). The water tariff will give the poorest people access
to the necessary minimum water supply while discouraging waste.
-    Long-term studies program.  Under this program, studies will be
conducted on the long-term supply potential for each network and
for distribution, extension and drainage schemes compatible with
carefully worked-out urban development plans and the existing
capacity to manage them efficiently.
-    Appropriate forms of financing designed to reduce recurrent
charges.  These will be based on external aid in the form of
grants or quasi-grants which should finance a part of recurrent
expenditures on projects financed with food aid, with the
participation of the rural communities concerned, or through the
use of service contracts with private entities (secondary
centers).
XII. CONCLUSION
102.      The Mauritanian Government, since December 12, 1984, has
instituted a large number of reform measures and has succeeded in halting
and redressing the deterioration of Mauritania's budgetary and external
accounts. It has had the great satisfaction of having the cooperation of
the entire donor community in this task. Of even more importance, it has
obtained the confidence and collaboration of the entire Mauritanian
population, despite the sacrifices that these measures entail.
103.      The economic development policy, the objectives of which have
been outlined above, is complex to implement and calls for an enormous
effort. But the Government remains firmly resolved to carry through all
the actions necessary for the recovery of the economy. It hopes that it
will be supported in this resolve by friendly countries and international



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Pi~-T~of 30
institutions and that they will continue to conduct an open and frank
dialogue on Mauritania's problems. Although these problems are very
similar in scale and complexity to those faced by other Sahelian countries,
the means to address them must be seen in light of the particularly
difficult conditions in Mauritania. Similarly, the u4derlying objectives
of this development policy are consistent with those adopted by the Special
Conference on Africa held by the United Nations. It is therefore necessary
that foreign aid over the next five years, while remaiting high enough to
sustain the net flow of transfers and capital at their current levels, will
be diversified so as to strengthen the major components of our development
policy. It is this goal that will be pursued in our bilateral
negotiations, in the sector-group meetings, and in the second meeting of
the Consultative Group scheduled for 1988.



ANtEX V
Page 1 of 10
MAURITANIA   STRtrCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release -
Done Before Board Presentation                Actions to be taken                    Mlonitoring Actions
I.  ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
1. tonsolidated Budgets
(a) Legal framework              - Revision of the basic Public
Finance Law
- Decrees instituting a consoli-
dated investment budget
(b) Establisment of a            - Circular introducing the 1987         - Similar circular for the 1988
Consolidated Budget            budget.                                 Budget
- Completed set of documents for        - Preparation of project                 Agreement of rIA on feasibitity      e
new projects under the 1987             documents for all financing            studies for new projects of
budget.                                 sources, including rates of            more than UM 100 million.
return and recurrent
expenditure estimates before
each Budget Law
- 1987 Budget Law adopted with a        - Preparation of the 1988 Budget       - IDA agreement on the investment
consolidated investment budget          Law.                                   budget for 1988 including
(December 31, 1986)                                                            projects with food aid
(October 1987)
(Second Tranche condition)
(c) Follow-up                    - Finalizing procedures                 - Quarterly progress reports sub-      - Starting in July 1987
titted to the Interministerial
- Distribution of supervision             Committee (I.C.)
reports to all project managers
(for 1986 budget)
2. Recovery Program
Implementation
(a) Interministerial             - Decree creating the I.C. signed         Submission of all new public         - Monthly meetings with IDA on
Co,mittee (I.C.)               in November 1985                         projects or guaranteed loans          SAL implementation
for approval by the I.C.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation              Actions to be taken                   Monitoring Actions
(b) Impact monitoring                                                 - Use of the permanent household      - Regular discussions of survey
survey (LSMS) to monitor the         results (first one in December
impact of recovery measures          1987)
(c) Statistical indicators     - Establishment of data collec-        - Quarterly progress reports
tion procedures
- Preparation of a Recovery           - Anmual reports with projections     - 1985/86 progress report sent
Program execution report                                                     to IDA and donors
(October 1987)
(d) External debt              - Technical assistance to improve      - Quarterly report to I.C. on the     - First semi-annual follow-up
procedures and computerize debt       evolution of guaranteed public        report (October 1987)
management (Central Bank and          debt
Ministry of Finance)
3. Preparation of                 - Agreement on work programs to        - Preparation of the Second           - Investment program for 1988-90
Consultative Groups              prepare three Sector Meetings          Consultative Group to be held         sent to IDA (December 1987)
(fisheries, irrigation, water         in 1988                               (Second Tranche condition)
supply)
4. Public Finance                 - Study, with the World Bank, of       - Discussion with IMF of the          - Fiscal reform agreed with IDA
cost structures for education         fiscal aspects of studies on          and IMF (September 1987)
(February 1987)                       mining, fisheries, energy and         (Second Trancbe condition)
small enterprises
- Public expenditure review,         - First measures introduced into
notably for the education and        the 1988 Budget Law
health sectors.
5. Other Actions to
Strengthen Public
Administration
(a) Computerization of         - Study contracted                     - Master plan                        - Discussions with IDA (December
Personnel Management                                                                                      1987)



ANNE V
Page 3 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRDCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation                 Actions to be taken                      Monitoring Actions
(b) Audit of Wage Bill and                                                 - Audit and implementation of the
Benefits                                                                 new procedures before end 1988
- Study of fringe benefits to           - Implementation of first
start by July 1987                      corrective measures in 1988
Budget Law
6. Strengthening the Ministry        - Agreement on a plan to                  - Development of an effective           - Definition, with IDA, of an
of Economy and Finance              strengthen the Ministry                  structure to supervise the               action program (October 1987)
(MEF)                                                                        SAL implementation                       (Second Teanche condition)
- Action program to strengthen          - Discussions with Bank Project
preparation, appraisal and              Divisions during 1987
monitoring procedures for
projects
7. Administrative Reform             - Organization and operational           - Administrative reform to               - Action program supervised under
set-up of the unit in charge of          improve public service manage-          IDA Credit on Economic
the institutional reform                 ment and efficiency                     Management (FY88)
8. Public Enterprises                - Strengthening of SONELEC and           - Study of the structure of the
SMCPP (see part III, Energy)             State portfolio and an action
program to rationalize it in
1988
- Study to simplify public               - Improvement of channels for           - Implementation decree
competitive bidding procedures           public competitive bidding and           (September 1987)
and to decentralize public               management decision processes
management decisions



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation                Actions to be taken                    Monitoring Actions
II. BANRING SECTOR REFORM
1. General Actions
(a) Interest Rate Policy         - Reduction on demand account           - Complete review of credit and        - IMF supervision
rates                                   lending rate structure by 1988
- Temporary structure for credit
rates
(b) Credit Policy                - Determination of ceilings on          - Semi-annual revision                 - IM agreement
Central Bank credit and
advances
2. Strengthening the Central                                                                                                                             Co
Bank                                                                                                                                                  0
(a) Organization and             - All Central Bank's shares in          ' Improvement of supervision by        - IDA/IMF supervision
Procedures                     pritary banks to the State              strenthening the  Banking
Coiittee, Risk Centralization
- Strengthening the Department of         Service, and Customer Credit-
supervision during                      worthiness Control
restructuring period
(b) Revision of Banking                                                  - Preparation of the new banking       - Publication of the new law,
Law                                                                    law and adoption of permanent          with IMN  agreement (December
banking ratios                         1987)
- By-laws on financial rates for
1988 (October 1987)
(c) Policy instruments for       - Technical assistance for the          - New accounting procedures and        - Implemention under IMF
supervision                   Department of Banking                    completion of the ongoing              supervision by December 1987
Supervision                             operation to put accounts in
order
- Reduction of legal fees and
corrective fiscal measures in
1988



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation                Actions to be taken                    Monitoring Actions
3. Restructuring of Primary
Banks
(a) Preliminary Actions          - Report on analysis
- Strengthening of recovery
system
- Bad debt inventory
(b) Definition of the            - Discussions and agreement on          - Cleaning of primary banks'           - IDA agreement by October 1987
Restructuring Strategy         strategy                                balance sbeets
- Assistance in preparing the           - Settlement of external arrears       - IDA agreement by July 1987          o
restructuring of primary banks
- Evaluation of the frozen              - Preparation of contract-plans        - IDA agreement on contract-plans
credits of public enterprises           with primary banks                     for BMCI, BAIM, and RANIS
(Second Trancbe condition)
(c) Merging of BKDC/FND          - Government agreement on merger        - Preparation and implementation       - By October 1987
of the legal and financial
aspects of the merger
- Evaluation of arrears to              - Discussions with Government and      - IDA agreement on management
foreign corresponding banks             donors on the merger and subse-        system and contract-plan
quent management system                (Second Tranche condition)
(d) Restructuring of BIMA        - Cleansing of bank balance             - Preparation of the                   - By October 1987
and SMB                        sheets                                  restructuring agreement
- Determination of the final cost      - By October 1987
and financing
- Evaluation of arrears toward          - Negotiation and agreement on         - IDA agreement on the cession
foreign correspondant banks             financial and legal structures         agreement and contract-plan
with private parties                   (Second Tranche condition)



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation                 Actions to be taken                      Monitoring Actions
III. THE ENERGY SECTOR
1. Strategy                          - Overall policy statement               - Implementation of policy               - Review of progress made in
(November 1986)                                                                  policy implementation in
December 1987
2. SONELEC
(a) Financial recovery            - Tariff increase by 20                 - Tariff adjustment (water and           - Increase by 109 in July 1987
electricity)
- Temporary reduction in the             - Determine the modalities for          - Disbursement of the 1987
price of diesel fuel for power           increasing tht fixed assets of           tranche, with IDA (November          I
production                               SONELEC by UM 1,000 million              1987)                               OD
- Strategy to balance the 1987           - Finalization of a medium-term         - Draft to IDA and final plan
budget                                   (5 year) development plan for           before December 1987
SONEIEC
(b) Tariff Study                  - Terms of reference                     - Completion of study and discus-        - New electricity tariffs sent to
sions of conclusions for a new          IDA before January 1988
system of tariffs                       (Second Tranche condition)
(c) Institutional Aspects         - Note on the support fund for           - Preparation and publication of
energy                                   legal documents (covenants and
general conditions)
- Contract-plan between SONELEC         - Contract-plan submitted to IDA
and Government                          before December 1987
(Second Trancbe condition)
(d) Personnel/Training            - Designation of Mauritanian             - Medium-term training program          - Project submitted to IDA and
counterparts for expatriate                                                       implemented before July 1987
specialists
(e) Management of Customer                                                 - Survey of customers and putting        - By December 1987
Accounts                                                                 accounts in order



ANNEX V
Page 7 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation                Actions to be taken                    Monitoring Actions
3. Petroleum Sector
(a) Prices                       - Price structure eliminating           - Quarterly adjustments of prices      - Adjustments sent to IDA with
risk margin and adjusting all           and tariffs                            regular information
price components
(b) Supply/Marketing             - SMCPP management audit                - Management and financial             - Restructuring program and
restructuring of SMCPP                 contract-plan sent to IDA
(December 1987)
(Second Tranche condition)
- Decree on the liberalization of       - New organization for oil             - Decree sent to IDA (July 1987)
marketing and the organization          product importing, with a
of marketing groups                     supply security guarantee                                                 co
(c) Investment                   - Feasibility study for the             - Finalization of the 1988/91          - Document sent to IDA before
butane gas bottling plant sent          program                                December 1987
to IDA
(d) Butane                                                               - Agreement on the management          - Documents sent to IDA (August
of the plant                           1987)
- System of price determination        - Sent to IDA before August 1987
- Define str"tegy to provide
households with economical
heating systens in 1988
IV. FOOD POLICY
1. ARricultural Pricing and         - Study on cereal pricing and           - Implementation of recommenda-         - Decree on cereals r:icing and
Marketing                          marketing                               tions for the cereal sub-sector         marketing (October 1987)
(Second Tranche condition)
- Government reaction to cereals
study                                 - Audit of SONIMEX in 1987             - Discussions with IDA (January
1988)



ANNEX V
Page 8 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POGRAIM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation              Actions to be taken                   Monitoring Actions
2. Strengthening the Pood         - Study on the organization of         - Definition of the functions,       - Implementation of the new
Security Commission (CSA         CSA                                    structures, and procedures           organization strcture and
needed to make CSA efficient,        management procedures
- 1987 budget financed by foud          with accounting and management        (October 1987)
aid supervisory comittee              systems                               (Second Tranche condition)
3. Food Programing                - Preparation of the annual food       - Establish procedures for annual    - Discussed witb IDA in December
program for 1987, with                food programming by December          1987
objectives for free food and          each year
food-for-work distribution
(December 1286)
4. Food for Work (FFW)            - Creation of a programming unit         Define objectives,                  - Finalized with IDA in October
institutional tramork and            1987
programming procedures for 7PW
- Preparation of 71W investment      - Agreement with ID  on a 1988
programs in conjunction with        F7W investment program
consolidated budget                          (October 1987)
S. Cosmon Fund                    - Approval of the decree creating
a Common Fund
- Meeting of the Joint Committee
to discuss the 1987 list of
projects proposed for financing
- Development of procedures for       - Preparation of an investment        - Agreement with IDA on a list of
the approval, follow-up, and          program financed by the Fund in       projects for 1988
supervision of the investment         conjunction with consolidated         (October 1987)
program financed by food aid          budget
sales



ANNEX V
Page 9 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Presentation              Actions to be taken                   Monitoring Actions
V. DEVELOPMENT OF THE FISHERIES
SECTOR                             - Ongoing sectoral studies,            - Program and timetable for           - By October 1957
coordinated by the Kuwait Fund        implementation of specific
1. Sector Stratepy                                                         measures arising from the
- Final report discussed with           policy statement
Government (March 87)
- Government adoption of a            - Preparation of a document for       - Donor sector meeting (befote
general policy statement              including policy measures with        March 1988)
resource   gement, incentive
system and investment projects
2. Soecific Aswects                  - Strengthening suveillance and        - Establish new fisheries             - New system iplemented with IDA    p
control                               surveillance system                   agreement (Decmber 1987)
- Principles                                                               (Second Tranche cordition)        U
- Personmel
- Resource mnagpment                  - New fiscal system linked to the     - IDA and IMP agreement
- Principles                          overall fiscal reform to be           (December 1967)
- 1987 fishing permits                implemented in the 1988 Budget
Law
- Restructuring installations in     - Consultation with IDA (December
Nouadhibou and audit of SMCP         1987)
(marketing company) in 1987
- Training program for the sector    - Program discussed with IDA
(August 1987)                        (September 1987)
(Second Tranche condition)
- Preparation of the 1988/91         - Agreement with IDA on 1988-90
investment program, for presen-      program (November 1987)
tation at the donors meeting         (Second Tranche condition)
- Promotion of artisanal             - Assistance provided by IDA
fisheries and integrated
production lines in 1988



ANNEA V
Page 10 of 10
MAURITANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PRORAM
MEASURES AND ACTION PROGRAM
Before Second Tranche Release
Done Before Board Prese..tation                Actions to be taken                     Monitoring Actions
VI. PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
1. Institutional Reform             - Technical assistance to the            - Revision of the system for            - IDA supervision (October 1987)
Industry Department                     granting agreements untder
investment Code
- Strengthening or reorganizing
institutions dealing with SME
promotion (e.g., CNI, CEDI) in
1988
2. Incentive System                 - Study on incentives in the             - Preparation of a new Investment       - Publication of the revised
Investment Code                         Code                                    Investment Code (December 1987)
(Second Tranche condition)           00
3. Promotion Measures                                                        - Fiscal reform                         - Revision of import duties (see
Fiscal Reform) by December 1987
- Study of price control               - Reduced list for fixed prices
liberalization                         and fixed margins (July 1987)
- Import liberalization                - Measures sent to IDA (July
1987)



NOTES



MAP SETON



IBRO 16452R
16-                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~I?
5*>t
_ I MAURI1ANI.
A F R I C A
MAURITANIA.
PAVED ROADS                                                           MOROCCO
PAVED ROADS UNGER CONSTRUCTION                                   _
LATERITEiEARTH ROADS
-~~ 'RAILS          ~Aroun                                                               I
-.---.--.- ~RAILSROADu
RAILROAO                                         )                                             |          ALGE RIA
AIRFIELDS
*    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                               \
PORTS
--   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARliS                                 \                                                           1    .
___  _ INDICA71S THE TfRRITORY OF THE                                                    I
FORMER SPANISH SAiARA                                      I    eb gn .W )                         "                   ,f  
I WESTE RN SAHARA I 
FORMER                      \'
,        10  160  200  25             SPANISH
24                                            SAHARA                                                                                                 2Ai  / ,'
. vIIta-cisnorosV-
,  ...-------                                                              MALI
rof ,   .       -----------
La  buerr     .               Cheurn ,ock,ei
Ator       b
-Chinguetti
O.,ed                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20-
lAkoult       e                                               '
_                              ><d!ikla          _; ;~~~~---------  lchitt  -
NOUAKCHOTT 4
BoutilImit  CaOnWraf        lena     I                 '-.
| , > ~~~~~~TAGA Nr                                                              1,  ,   Cbaltaj|
h&Tamchaken                          .-t
RAiour'el Atrcomss
Nma
St Louisifa\                                                                              |  O1      ,  mea                         j
J  Momnd6re      f      Ay'tibote
Mtoma
pS /aby ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,oro du Sohel
DAKA                                                    Bakeel >                               M        A       L       I
SENEGAL                                                                                 W~ S~?
|       sb                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~12-                            t!-
FEBRUARY 1985



