DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1812 MAU
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Mauritania - Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated                             , 1987


﻿DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1812 MAU
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1987, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Adminis-
trator) of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by
the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the
Minister).
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of
the International Development Association (the Association) and
of the Minister in the financing of the Program of structural
adjustment of the Recipient's economy, described in a letter
from the Recipient to the Association, dated May 13, 1987, (the
Program);
WHEREAS (B) the Association has granted a Credit for this
purpose on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, dated June 26, 1987, (Credit No. 1812-MA)
between the Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement);
WHEREAS (C) the Minister wishes to make available to the
Recipient a grant in the amount of five million Dutch Guilders
(the Dutch Grant) to assist the Recipient in carrying out the
Program on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS (D) pursuant to the arrangements, dated December 11,
1986, between the Minister and the Association (the Arrange-
ments), the Minister has requested the Association, and the
Association has accepted, to administer the Dutch Grant in
accordance with the provisions of these Arrangements; and
WHEREAS (E) the Recipient acknowledges that the financial
assistance extended to the Recipient under this Dutch Grant
Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral develop-
ment aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the
Recipient;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,


﻿- 2 -
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement  subject, however,    to  the  following  modifications
thereof:
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant pursuant to the
Arrangements, except in the phrase "member of the Association"
in Sections 2.01 (5) and 6.02 (e);
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)  the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Dutch Grant extended to the Recipient under this
Agreement;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, shall be deemed to read Dutch Grant Account;
(e) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Program' means   the imports and    other  activities
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement"
(f) in Section 6.02 the term      "Association" shall also
include the International Development Association acting in its
own capacity;
(g) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall
prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the program referred to in
the Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the performance
by the Recipient and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the Dutch Grant Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Dutch Grant";


﻿- 3 -
(h) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06,
6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
(i)  the term "Borrower", whenever used     in the General
Conditions, means the Recipient.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the terms "Dutch Guilders  and "Dfls" mean
the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or refer-
red to, a grant in an amount equivalent to five million Dutch
Guilders (Dfls 5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn
from the Dutch Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the
Administrator.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall other-
wise agree, contracts for goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be procured in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with
the same force and effect as if it were fully set forth herein,
it being understood that the references in said Schedule to the
"Association" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed t, be
references to the Association acting as Administrator of the
Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
(b)  If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿Administrator under this Agreement, by notice to the Recipient,
cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the Administrator's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of    such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Dutch Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.q1. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement are
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being under-
stood that all references in said Articles III and IV to "the
Associatiun" shall be deemed to be references to the Association
acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement
and all references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall
be deemed to be references to the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant
Account, respectively, and all references to the Borrower shall
be deemed to be references to the Recipient.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.ti. This Agreement shall become effective as of
the date first above written and shall continue in effect until
the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for
Economy and Finance shall be the representative of the Recipient
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B. P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                      Telex:
MEF                               540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Administrator:
International Development Asociation
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United State6 of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
Section 5.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement
may be transferred to the Minister. The Recipient accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient
to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obli-
gations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the
Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without
any further action or formality required on the part of any
party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have
any rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By  /5/     /-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Dutch Grant
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from
the Dutch Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Admin-
istrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost  of goods required during the execution of the Program and
to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿-8 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or foi
goods supplied from the territory of the Recipient;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the
Development Credit Agreement;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the oriinal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


