AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-28 MAI
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated    (.4r)    2           , 1987


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-28 MAU
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  TLAYn,e *2                , 1987, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHERAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B)  the Administrator has received a letter dated May 13,
1987 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objec-
tives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitmeat to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Administrator in
the financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution and the Administrator has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution;
(C)  the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance in support of the Program and by an agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (the
Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
eleven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,700,000) (the Credit);
(D) the Borrower and IDA intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the African Facility Credit be dis-
bursed on account of expenditures in support of the Program,
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit provided for
in the Development Credit Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the
Administrator has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the African Facility
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;


﻿-2-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", %hen used in the General
Conditions, means    the  International  Development  Association
acting as Administrator of the African Facility, except in the
phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b)
and 6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit"
and "Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions,
are  amended   to  read  "African  Facility   Credit  Agreement",
"African Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account",
respectively;
(c) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Program' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
African Facility Credit Agreement.";
(d) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(f) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity; and
(g) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Administrator, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such


﻿-3-
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the Program referred
to in the Preamble to the African Facility Credit Agreement,
the performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of
their respective obligations under the African Facility
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the African Facility Credit.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Part 1I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those
Articles;
(b)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the Program,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agr-,ement;
(c) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Otandard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(d)  "Ouguiya" and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(f)  "BCMA" means Banque Centrale de Mauritanie, the Central
Bank of the Birrower;
(g)  "CSA" means Commissariat A la S6curit6 Alimentaire, the
agency of the Borrower responsible for food aid distribution;


﻿-4-
(h)   "SMCPP" means SociftE Mauritanienne de Commerciali-
sation  des  Produits  PEtroliers,  an  Etablissement  Public  a
Caractare Industriel et Commercial of the Borrower established
and operating pursuant to Decree No. 80-171 dated July 21, 1980;
(i)  "SONELEC" means Societ& Nationale d'Eau et d'Electri-
cit6, an Etablissement Public A Caract6re Industriel et Commer-
cial of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to Decree
No. 75-170 dated May 23, 1975; and
(j)    "SNIM"   means  "Societe  Nationale  Industrielle  et
Mini6re", a Soci6t' d'Economie Mixte having its registered office
in Nouadhibou, Mauritania.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator.
(b)  Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in the territories of: (i) any Part II
member of IDA; and (ii) any country designated by the Admin-
istrator as meeting the provisions set forth in paragraph 4 (f)
(ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in BCM or such other bank as shall be accept-
able to the Administrator a special account in U.S. dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
II


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without rest.ictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The BorrY,er shall repay to IDA the prin-
cipal amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1,   1997 and ending May 1, 2037. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on May 1, 2007 shall be
one-half of   one   percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BCM is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower hereby entrusts BCM with responsibility for the


﻿-6-
preparation of withdrawal applications under the African Facility
Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to the Administrator in support of such applica-
tions; such withdrawal applications shall, to the extent practi-
cable, bc consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate
amounts of not less than $500,000.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the
eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance   with   appropriate   auditing   principles
consistently  applied,   by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after


﻿-7-
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and the audit there-
of as the Administrator shall from time to time
reasoni!oly request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Admin-
istrator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
African Facility Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)  enable  the   Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   open a counterpart funds account in BCM and make
deposits in said account of the local currency obtained by the
Borrower from the sale of foreign exchange provided under the
African Facility Credit; and


﻿(b)   use such counterpart funds for priority financing of
the local currency costs of the measures included in the Program,
acceptable to the Administrator.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Credit made to the Borrower
in support of the Program shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated, in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Development Credit Agreement, or
(B)  the Credit shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that:
(A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement, and
(B)  adequate funds required during the execution
of the Program are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent  with   the  obligations   of  the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01


﻿-9-
of this Agreement: shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in
such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.B. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINIPLAN
Nouakchott                     540 MTN
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 R Street, N.W.
Washigton, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Bys/ Iqbde//4Ai          Ov,Id     baodak
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By k      cVC~V         (   5\co
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667                         Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 12 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals from the African Facility
Credit Account in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 2,200,000 may be made on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after March 31,
1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g)  expenditures out of the proceeds of the African Facil-
ity Credit in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to
SDR 4,700,000 for petroleum products and SDR 4,700,000 for
foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility


﻿- 13 -
Credit Account, and the total amount of such commitments to pay
the Borrower or others shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 16,000,000, unless the Administrator shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement:
(a)   with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment have been taken, and are satisfactory to the Administrator.
4.    If, after such exchange of views, the Administrator is not
so satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Administra-
tor, then the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the amount of the Credit unwithdrawn from the African
Facility Credit Account or any part thereof.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement of Goods
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to
the following modifications set forth in sub-paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of this paragraph. For purposes of the African Facility
Credit Agreement, all references in the Guidelines to the Bank
and to loans shall be deemed to be references to the Administra-
tor and to the African Facility Credit, respectively.
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid.   This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business 'dition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As  a  further   alternative, bidding   documents  may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single


﻿- 15 -
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement shall be stated in the tender or prequali-
fication documents for the procurement of such goods.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000 each, shall be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Administrator may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or
paragraph 5 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Administrator as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator
has authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The following actions shall have been taken consistent with
the principle outlined in the Program:
(a) Agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator on
the Borrower's investment program for 1988-1990.
(b) Adoption of a public investment budget for 1988 satis-
factory to the Administrator.
(c)   Adoption of an action program satisfactory to the
Administration to strengthen the capability of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance to implement all actions required under the
Program.
(d)   Agreement between the Borrower and Administrator on
cereal pricing and marketing policies.
(e)   A new system for setting electricity tariffs satis-
factory to the Administrator has been established.
(f)   An organization structure and management procedures
satisfactory to the Administrator have been adopted for CSA.
(g) Agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator on
a restructuring program of SMCPP and contract-plans for SMCPP and
SONELEC.
(h) Agreements satisfactory to the Administrator have been
concluded: (A) with private partners for the rehabilitation of
four primary banks; and (B) with all restructured banks to
determine the conditions and modalities required for an ade-
quate conduct of their operations and timeframe for their full
compliance with all requirements prescribed by the Banking Law.
(i)   Agreement with the Administrator on an investment
program for the fisheries sector and submission of an action-
program satisfactory to the Administrator to: (A) enhance the
control of fishing activities; and (B) formulate a training
program for the fisheries sector.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The   Borrower   shall  furnish   to  the  Administrator
requests for replenishment of the Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Administrator shall specify.    On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
wiLh amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.     Each such deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 17 -
(j)  Enactment of a revised Investment Code satisfactory to
the Administrator.
(k)  Enactment of revised tax regulations satisfactory to
the Administrator for fisheries operations, small businesses and
SNIM operations.


﻿- 19 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph _ (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the  total unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  African
Facility   Credit   minus   the   amount  of   any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Program,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of


﻿- 20 -
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied.  No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


