                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                   Report No. 33594




               SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                       TANZANIA

           SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT AND GRANT

                           (Credit No. 3965 and Grant No. H118)


                                   DECEMBER 22, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit 2 (AFTP2)
Tanzania and Uganda Country Management Unit (AFCO4)
Africa Region

                       Simplified Implementation Completion Report
               For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations

Operation ID:                                               Operation Name:
Team Leader: Robert Utz                                     TL Unit: AFTP2
                                                            Report Date: 12/15/05


1. Program Data

                Name: Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit             L/C Number:   Credit No. 3965
                        and Grant                                                       Grant No. H118
  Country/Department: Tanzania Country Department Unit                          Region: Africa

      Sector/subsector: Central government administration (40%); Sub-national
                        government administration (20%); General agriculture, fishing
                        and forestry sector (20%); Micro and SME finance (10%), Water
                        (10%).
               Theme: Public expenditure, financial management, and procurement;
                        Municipal Finance; Rural markets; Tax policy and
                        administration; Environmental policies and institutions.


KEY DATES
                                                                     Original             Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:     11/18/2003                                Effective:  12/14/2002           11/18/2003
   Appraisal:  03/29/2004                                   MTR:     03/29/04             03/29/04
   Approval:   07/29/2004                                 Closing:   06/30/05             06/30/05



   Borrower/Implementing Agency:     The United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of Finance and other Ministries
                  Other Partners:    African Development Bank, Canada, Denmark, EU, Finland, Ireland, Japan,
                                     Germany/KfW, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United
                                     Kingdom



STAFF                      Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:            Gobind Nankani                            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Judy O'Connor                             Judy O' Connor
Sector Manager:            Kathie L. Krumm                           Kathie L. Krumm
Team Leader at ICR:        Robert Utz                                Robert Utz
ICR Primary Author:        Alema Siddiky

2. Principal Performance Ratings
(focused on this operation's contribution toward overall program objectives)

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: S
                                      Sustainability: L
               Institutional Development Impact: SU
                               Bank Performance: S
                          Borrower Performance: S



                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                 Quality at Entry:                                     S
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time:                                        No


3. Program Description

3.a. Description of the Program

1.      Tanzania's first Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) was prepared in 2000 and three
annual progress reports documented the progress and its implementation. PRS 1 has focused
on three main areas of outcomes: (i) reduction in the breadth and depth of income poverty; (ii)
improving the quality of life and social well being and (iii) sustaining an environment that is
conducive to development which encompasses macro economic stability and good
governance. As part of the PRS process government has prepared, realigned and approved
sector development programs for health, basic education, agriculture and water.                           These
provide the framework for supporting the implementation of the PRS targets that are specific
to these sectors.

3.b. Description of the Operation

2.      The above reform program is supported by a series of Poverty Reduction Support
Credits (PRSCs) from the Bank and PRSC-1 laid out a three year policy reform framework.
PRSC-2 was approved by the Bank's Board in July, 2004 in a total amount of US$150 million
(US$60 million credit and US$90 million grant). PRSC-2 supports the implementation of key
priority areas as set out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and reforms supported under
PRSC-2 build on reforms implemented under PRSC-1. PRSC-2 focused on cross cutting and
institutional issues to foster rural and private sector development, sustain macro economic
stability, strengthen public sector performance through public sector and public expenditure
reforms, enhance accountability and minimize resource leakages through reforms of financial
management, procurement and aid management and foster the sustainability of poverty
reduction efforts through reforms of the institutional and policy framework for environmental
assessments.


3.      Bank's PRSC support is provided in the context of the multi-donor, Poverty Reduction
Budget Support (PRBS) program which provides a common framework for general budget
support for the implementation of PRS. Under this facility donors have agreed to seek

improved harmonization of policy dialogue and reporting, enhanced predictability and
budgetary integration of aid flows. The government and donors have agreed on an annually
reviewed and updated Performance Assessment Framework (PAF) with a three year horizon
for monitoring progress in implementing agreed reforms under the PRBS and as the basis for
financing decisions. PRSC-2 has been harmonized with PRBS with respect to both substance
and process. As part of the support to PRS, PRSC-2 is based on progress reflected in key
policy actions summarized in the following table.


                                 Table 1: PRSC-2 Focus Areas and Priorities
PRS Objective/Impact Indicator            PRSC/PRS Focus Area                 PRSC-2 Areas of Dialogue
                                         PRS Pillar : Reduce Income Poverty
Breadth-proportion below poverty line     Rural Development                    Reform of Crop Boards
                                                                               Enforcement of micro finance
                                                                              legislation and regulations;
                                                                              Monitoring of ASDP implementation;
                                                                              Land and Village Act implementation
                                                                              District roads maintenance and
                                                                              rehabilitation
                                          Private Sector Development          Land market reform
                                                                              Labor market reform
                                                                              PSD and SME strategy development
                                                                              Design of new civil procedure code
                                                                              Strengthening of business environment
                        PRS Pillar : Achieve and Sustain a Conducive Development Environment
Macro Stability                           Debt contracting and management      Implementation of National Debt
                                                                              Strategy
                                                                               DSA Update
                                                                               Enhanced reporting on debt
                                          Domestic Revenue                     Inventory and audit of parastatal debt
                                                                               Review of tax exemptions
                                                                               Strengthening of tax administration
                                                                               Rationalization of local taxes
Governance-Improve effectiveness in       Budget formulation and management    Approval and execution of budget
the delivery of public services and the                                       consistent with PRS
overall incentive environment                                                  Improvement of budget classification
                                                                              for central and local government
                                                                               Enhanced budgetary reporting of
                                                                              LGA's
                                                                               Completion      expenditure   tracking
                                                                              study
                                                                               Introduction     of   formula    based
                                                                              allocation to districts
Governance- Improve the performance       Public Service Reform                Service delivery surveys
of the public sector                                                           Annual plan and performance budget
                                                                               Performance monitoring
                                                                               Pay reform
                                                                               Public Service Act
Governance-Minimize resource leakage      Financial management                 PFMRP approval and implementation
and strengthen accountability                                                  IFMS security
                                                                               Audit committees and internal audit
                                                                               MoF reorganization
                                                                               Strengthening of NAO
                                                                               Local       Government        Financial

                                      Procurement                            Management
                                                                               LGA tender boards
                                                                               CPAR completed and action plan
                                      Anti-Corruption                        endorsed
                                                                               Reporting on anti-corruption activities
                                                                               Capacity enhancement of the central
                                                                             coordination unit
                                      Aid Management                           Code of conduct
                                                                               Action plans for LGAs
                                                                               Inclusion of aid in budget
                                                                               Reporting of LGAs on aid
                                                                               Monitoring of TAS implementation


                            PRS Pillar: Improve Quality of Life and Social Well- being
Environment                           Environment                              Framework          legislation      on
                                                                             environmental management
                                                                               Implementation of institutional
                                                                             framework for environmental
                                                                             management
                                                                               Capacity building
                                                                               Monitoring indicators
                                                                               Environment PER


                                       Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation
Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation     Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation        PRS reporting
                                                                               Capacity building
                                                                               MDG integration



4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

4.      The achievement of the objective and outcome is rated as satisfactory. Tanzania's
overall macroeconomic and growth performance have been strong and significant progress
was made in the area of            improving budget formulation and execution, improving the
performance of the public sector, improving external resource management and enhancing
environmental sustainability. Given the comprehensiveness of the country reform agenda,
some measures were implemented timely basis while others lagged behind, certain activities
were completed successfully whereas others needed further attention.

        Results are monitored at two levels ­ overall outcomes of the PRS implementation
against a set of economic and social indicators (Annex 3) and implementation of specific
institutional and policy reforms (Annex 1). In addition, the policy dialogue also includes a set
of intermediate results indicators, which focus on the immediate impact of the policy actions
and institutional changes. (Annex 2). The following provides a brief summary of progress at
the two principal levels of monitoring by discussion the implementation of prior actions under
PRSC-2 as well as the overall progress on key social and economic indicators.

4.a. Institutional and Policy Reforms - PRSC-2 Prior Actions:

Private Sector Development:
5.      Drafted Land Act amendments and presented to the parliament.                                    The Land
(Amendment) Act 2003 Bill was submitted for the first read in Parliament in November 2003
and was approved in February 2004. Following the approval it was expected that individuals

and businesses will now be able use land as collateral, hence encouraging capital flows and
investment.

6.     Phase I labor legislation (Employment relations, Collective Labour Relations, Dispute
Resolutions and Labor Market Institutions) presented to parliament. This was achieved in
November 2003 and the legislation has been approved in April 2004. Preparation of the Phase
II of the reform, which includes Occupational Safety and Health, Worker's
Compensation/Social Security and Employment Promotion), is now underway. The task force
governing this reform process has ensured that sufficient technical work is carried out in order
to guide the preparation.

7.     Reviewed the business licensing system after consultations with stakeholders,
prepared a position paper on business licensing reforms and submitted to Parliament
amendments to the Business Licensing Act, 1972, introducing reforms of the business
licensing system. Reform in the business licensing system has been carried out with the aim
of reducing the cost of establishment and running of businesses. Two reviews of the current
licensing system and it implications were carried out in order to inform the policy reform.

Macroeconomic Stability:
8.     Prepared annual borrowing and repayment plan (both concessional and non-
concessional loans), inclusive of borrowing limits and presented it to Parliament as part of
the annual budget. In light of large stock of parastatal debt, the government has prepared an
inventory of parastatal debt contingent liabilities and agreed on a strategy for monitoring their
migration to actual debt.

9.     Local government taxes and levies rationalized. In the budget for 2003/04,
government limited the sources of revenue for local governments to a closed list with a
limited number of taxes and levies. The development levy was also abolished.

Governance- Improvement in the Effectiveness of Delivery of Public Services.
10.    Approved budget 2003/04 in line with PRS objectives, delineating budget codes for
priority sectors and items. The government remains committed to financing and tracking the
expenditures for implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. Resources in the PRS
sector have increased.

11.    Budget execution for 2002/03 and 2003/04 (FQ 1 and FQ 2), in line with the approved
budget and in line with PRS priorities, consistently reported as per identified expenditure
budget codes for priority sectors and in 2003/04 also by identified codes for priority items.
Budget execution in 2002/03 and the first half of 2003/04 had been broadly in line with
estimates. The quarterly Budget Execution Reports on fiscal performance continue to be
published on the national website in order to ensure transparency on government operations.

Governance- Improve performance of the public sector and the overall incentive
environment.
12.    Pay enhancement for civil servants in line with the approved budget for FY04.
Salaries have been increased between 6 and 10 percent with the minimum wage rising from
35,000 in 1999 to 55,000 which is up by 57 percent.

Public Financial Management:

13.     Joint PFMRP Steering Committee reviewed (i) the establishment of a management
structure and (ii) the detailed annual work plan and budget for the first phase of
implementation of the PFMRP. The government has continued its efforts to secure effective
and sustainable financial management arrangements that support an equitable delivery of
public services. This support is intended to reduce and minimize resource leakages as well as
strengthen accountability of public funds.

14.     Local Government Authority Tender Boards constituted and established under the new
Regulations. At the local government level, reforms include the issuance of the Local
Government Regulations, 2003, following which Local Government Authority Tender Boards
have been established in compliance with the Regulations.

Procurement:
15.     Prepared a draft bill amending the Public Procurement Act of 2001 reflecting the
CPAR recommendations, and submitted a letter from the Attorney General confirming that
said bill wil be presented for parliamentary approval during the 2004 budget session.
Completion of this action took longer than anticipated due to human resource capacity
constraints experienced in the Central Tender Board in preparing this Bill. Progress in this
area includes the establishment of the Central Tender Board as an executive agency,
appointment of the Executive Secretary to the Board and the establishment of the
Procurement Appeals Authority.

Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation:
16.     Progress in strengthening and sustaining capacity of the VPO secretariat to support
and monitor implementation of the PRS according to an updated action plan to be approved
by Government. The Action Plan for Building Capacity in Support of the PRS was presented
to the PRS technical Committee in August 2003. A Medium Term Strategic Plan 2004-2007
for VPO has been approved and finalized in February 2004.

17.     Progress in strengthening and sustaining capacity of PO-RALG for collecting,
collating and analyzing administrative data according to an updated action plan to be
approved by government. Achievements in this area include recruitment of a senior
programme officer to lead the MIS unit; assignment of two senior staff permanently to the
RDS technical working group; completion of a report on MIS strategy for PO-RALG which is
now operational; development of a database on the Local Government Authorities (LGAs)
Social Economic Profile; installation of a local area network and registration of the domain to
facilitate e-communication with Regional Secretariats and LGAs.


4. b. Outcomes

        Outcomes are monitored against a set of PRS indicators which forms part of the
PRBS/PRSC monitoring framework (Annex 3). Overall, these indicators suggest important
progress in most areas.

        Tanzania's economy grew by 6.7 percent in 2004 and an estimated 7.2 percent in
2005. Mining and construction continued to be the fastest growing sectors, with growth rates
of 15.6 and 11 percent growth in 2004, respectively. However, of particular importance to
Tanzania's poverty reduction efforts is the fact that the agriculture sector grew by 6 percent in

2004. Agriculture contributes about 46 percent of Tanzania's GDP and about 86 percent of
Tanzania's poor households derive their livelihoods from agriculture and are thus directly
affected by faster growth in the sector. The sustained high growth in the manufacturing
sectors, averaging 7 percent during the past five years, is a very positive indicator of structural
transformation and diversification of the economy taking place.

        Financing provided through the PRSC also supported a significant increase of
expenditure in the priority sectors and the expansion of public service delivery, including
rapidly expanding enrollments at the primary and secondary education level, better provision
of health facilities with drugs and other inputs, which results in significantly increased
utilization rates of public health facilities, and, higher levels of road maintenance.

        In various non-income aspects of well-being, progress has been recorded. Especially
in health and education, considerable progress was made. Net primary school enrollment
increased from 57% in 2000 to 95% in 2005. Life expectancy increased from 44 years in 1978
to 49 years in 1988 to 54 years for males and 56 years for females in 2002. Infant mortality
dropped from 115 per 1000 in 1988 to 95 per 1000 in 2002. The fraction of chronically
undernourished or stunted children declined from 44% in 1999 to 38% in 2004. Other
indicators recorded less progress. Maternal mortality which was 529 per 100,000 births in
1996 did not decline and may even have increased though the increase to 578 in 2004 is not
statistically significant. The proportion of the population with access to piped or protected
water as their main source of drinking water remains very low, especially in rural areas where
­depending on the source 46% (census) to 56% (HBS) has access.

18.     Public expenditure and financial management reforms have resulted in improvements
of public financial management. The "Public Expenditure Management Country Assessment
and Action Plan (AAP) ­ Tanzania" prepared in 2004 concluded that over the last three years
Tanzania has made significant progress in the PEM reform process and that Tanzania meets
11 of the 16 benchmarks, which places Tanzania's PEM among the best performing in Sub-
Saharan Africa.

19.     The governance indicators compiled by Kaufmann et al.1 (Figure 1) suggest
improvements on most dimensions of governance in Tanzania between 1996 and 2004.
Tanzania's performance is also significantly better than that of other low income countries
(Figure 2) on all dimensions of governance. The most dramatic improvement seems to have
occurred with respect to "control of corruption," where Tanzania has moved from being
among the poorest performers to being close to the international average. The main area of
concern is "regulatory quality" where Tanzania's performance seems to have deteriorated
continuously since 1998. Tanzania has put in place a new regulatory framework and is
currently making a series of regulatory agencies operational, with the decline in regulatory
quality likely due to several reasons: First, with the liberalization of the economy and the
private sector participation in most utilities, including water, telecommunications, and
transport, the quality of regulation has gained in importance and is subject to increased
scrutiny by observers and expectations are higher. Second, there have been delays in the
implementation of the new regulatory framework, and finally, concerns about the


1D. Kaufmann, A. Kraay, and M. Mastruzzi (2005). Governance Matters IV: Governance Indicators for 1996­
2004. Draft, May 9, 2005.

appropriateness of oversight arrangements of these new regulatory agencies. The governance
indicators would suggest that this is a key area for enhanced government attention. A recent
World Bank review of the performance of regulatory agencies as well as financial support is
designed to enhance the regulatory environment.

Figure 1. Governance Indicators for Tanzania, 2004, 2002, 2000, 1998




Figure 2. Governance Indicators for Tanzania - comparision with low income countries, 2004

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome


20.     The reform supported by PRSC-2 maintained the momentum built up by achievements under
PRSC-1 and government's strong leadership and ownership were critical factors behind the progress.
Continued political and macroeconomic stability created a conducive environment for the
implementation of PRSC-2.

21.     Limited human resource capacity to implement and manage the PRSC reform agenda at the
local level might be one of the constraints in the area of public expenditure management, procurement
and financial management. Complementary technical assistance was thus important in facilitating the
implementation of the reform program, together with efforts to strengthen public sector capacities and
incentives.

22.     Tanzania program also made great progress in donor harmonization starting from PRSC-1.
Achievements include both greater consistencies in the government donor dialogue as well as a
reduction in transaction costs which is important given government's weak capacities.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance


23.     Bank's Performance: Overall the Bank's performance during the identification, preparation
and appraisal of PRSC-2 was satisfactory. PRSC-2 was prepared by the country team with significant
contributions from country office staff which played a crucial role in both substance (by providing
local knowledge) and contribution (coordination with Government, donors and HQ). Under the
direction of a proactive Country Director (based in the country office), the team has continued to strive
to support Tanzania in the implementation of its poverty reduction strategy.

24.     An important aspect of the preparation and implementation of this operation was the deepening
of donor harmonization through collaboration with a group of 12 donors and the use of a common
performance assessment framework and a joint review process. In this context, the Bank's multi-
sectoral team sustained a high-level and intense dialogue with the government and other development
partners. The operation complied with all relevant Bank environmental and business policies.

25.     The interaction with the IMF was also satisfactory, with the Bank complementing the Fund's
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility. In addition the team also cooperates with multilateral and
bilateral donors to ensure an appropriate division of responsibilities in support of the countries PRS.

26.     Borrower's Performance: The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania played an
active role in the preparation of the Credit under the direction of the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance and the sense of program ownership was strong among the government officials.
Reflecting this strong ownership, the government implementation of the program was effective and
satisfactory. The PRSC group maintained a continuing economic dialogue with Bank and PRBS
donors, coordinated and monitored the program under the direction of the Senior Permanent Secretary
and helped carry out the policy actions called for in PRSC-2 before Board presentation and



                                                   10

effectiveness. The Government of Tanzania was proactive in meeting the requirements called for by
the Credit.


7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

27.    A stable political environment contributed to the continuing successful implementation of
macroeconomic and structural reforms in Tanzania. The presidential and parliamentary elections in
Zanzibar and Tanzania were held in October 2005 and December 2005. The ruling CCM remained in
power and the presidency of Tanzania passed from President Mkapa to President Kikwete. The new
government is expected to continue the reform course followed by the previous government.

28.    Development and implementation of a common performance assessment framework and a joint
review process, which harmonizes general budget support of 12 donors, is a major achievement. Close
donor coordination was critical in avoiding duplication of effort. At the same time, it also poses
significant challenges for the Bank to adjust its internal requirements to the government-led
harmonization process on the ground.

29.    Weaknesses in government process such as the poverty monitoring system or the budget
system impact directly on the ability of the PRSC program to present adequate results orientation and
monitoring frameworks. It will be important to continue focusing improvements in the underlying
government process rather than attempting to circumvent these problems and weaknesses by
developing separate PRSC process.

30.    Subsequent operations.    PRSC-3 is the third in a series of PRSCs designed to support
government program as outlined in the NGRSP or MKUKUTA. PRSC-3 was approved by the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors on September 9, 2005 upon completion of all prior actions. Overall
progress in the implementation of the PRS and the Performance Assessment Framework remains
satisfactory and PRSC-4 is under preparation.




                                                11

                                                    Annex 1

Table 1: Achievements under PRSC-2 (Triggers and Policy Matrix)

 PRS/PRSC Objective       Sectors             Achievement under PRSC-2                            Current Status

                                     PRS Pillar : Reduce Income Poverty
Breadth-proportion    Rural                Reviewed the role of Crop Boards to     ·     The review work is being done in
below poverty line.   Development     limit    their  functions  to    regulataries Phases. Initial work on the review

                                      activities.                                   process began in Sept 2003 with an
                                                                                    institutional mapping exercise of coffee,
                                                                                    cotton, cashew and tea followed by
                                                                                    funding, institutional and impact
                                                                                    evaluation of the four Crop Boards.
                                           Prepared     the  Agriculture    Sector ·      Key coordination and monitoring
                                      Development         Programme       (ASDP)    benchmarks have been developed as

                                      Framework and Process Document.               follows : (i) effective functioning of
                                                                                    various coordination for a; (ii) timely
                                                                                    reporting and monitoring of the sector in
                                                                                    accordance with ASDP M&E
                                                                                    framework (iii)share of ASLMs budgets
                                                                                    and actual; (iv) expenditures going to
                                                                                    ASDP priorities.
                                           Prepared recommendation for legal,      ·     Micro-finance regulations were
                                                                                    signed by the Governor of BOT on 15th
                                      regulatory and supervisory framework for      March 2005. Based on the government
                                      micro-finance.                                procedures the regulations were signed
                                                                                    and sent to the Attorney General
                                                                                    Chambers. Attorney General Chambers
                                                                                    have sent the regulations to Government
                                                                                    Publishers to gazetting.

                                           Prepared and issued a prioritized       ·     This was not achieved during the
                                                                                    time of the Negotiations due to delays in
                                      strategic plan and a corresponding program    securing financial support for the
                                      to strengthen the administrative capacity for preparation of Land sector strategic
                                      implementation of the Land Act and Village    plan. As of Mach 2005 this plan has
                                      Land Act.                                     been finalized and the strategic plan for
                                                                                    the implementation of Land Laws Draft
                                                                                    submitted by consultant to Ministry of
                                                                                    Lands and Human Settlements
                                                                                    Development for consideration.
                                      ·    Developed proposal to strengthen the    ·     A report on strengthening the
                                      institutional arrangements for district road  institutional capacity at district level for
                                      maintenance and rehabilitation.               the management of district roads was
                                                                                    submitted in April 2004 and discussed
                                                                                    by stakeholders in August 2004. As of
                                                                                    March 2005, Technical Evaluation on
                                                                                    Road Inventory was completed. A
                                                                                    financial Evaluation of Proposal for
                                                                                    undertaking the study being finalized
                                                                                    and the inventory is expected to start in
                                                                                    May 2005 and to be completed in
                                                                                    September 2005.
                      Private Sector                                               ·     The Land Act 2003 was submitted
                      Development     ·    Drafted amendments to the Land           for the first reading in November 2003
                                      Act and presented them to parliament          Parliamentary Session and assented by
                                                                                    the President on 30/03/04.
                                      ·    Completed preparation of PSD strategy   ·     PSD strategy formulation process
                                      document      (which   mainstreams     SME    has been held in abeyance until February
                                      development).                                 2005 in order to utilize the draft
                                                                                    Diagnostic Trade Integration Study
                                                                                    (DTIS) as an input and to mobilize more



                                                         12

                                                                                 resources.
                                     ·    Began implementation of the SME       ·     Implementation of the SME policy

                                     policy.                                     started and some of the activities have
                                                                                 already been financed. Priority projects
                                                                                 formulated however, resources not yet
                                                                                 secured.
                                     ·    Better regulation unit (BRU) for the  ·     BRU is currently working on
                                     BEST     programme     in  PO-PP   staffed, implementation of the 1st year work
                                     resourced and operational.                  plans. This has included work on land
                                                                                 and labor reforms, business licenses,
                                                                                 regulatory licensing and reform of the
                                                                                 agricultural and crop boards and drafting
                                                                                 of work plans for the commercial
                                                                                 dispute resolution. (CDR) component.
                                                                                 More than 50% of the activities under
                                                                                 the 1st year work plan have commenced.
                                                                                 Formal structure of the BEST
                                                                                 programme approved but not yet
                                                                                 operational.
                                     ·    Prepared new labor policy and revised ·     Achieved.
                                     Labor Act in consultation with stakeholders
                                     and secured Government approval of the
                                     same.
                                          Phase I legislation (Employment             Phase I legislation was presented to

                                     relations,   collective  labor   relations, Parliament for first reading in November
                                                                                 2003.
                                     dispute resolutions and labor market
                                     institutions) presented to Parliament.
                                          Reviewed the business licensing             The position paper has been
                                     system      after     consultation    with  prepared and approved by the
                                     stakeholders, prepared a position paper     Interministeral Technical Committee

                                     on   business    licensing  reforms    and  and the 2004 Finance Bill abolished
                                                                                 licensing fees for small businesses.
                                     submitted to Parliament amendments to       Completion of the action had/taken
                                     the   Business    Licensing   Act,   1972,  more time than initially anticipated due
                                     introducing reforms of the business         to the need to build stakeholder
                                     licensing system.                           consensus and support given the
                                                                                 concerns regarding revenue loss
                                                                                 implications from the introduction of the
                                                                                 new system.
                                          New civil procedure code designed.          This was not achieved during the
                                                                                 time of the negotiations. As of March
                                                                                 2005 work plans CDR component
                                                                                 approved by TRC in February, 2005.
                                                                                 CDR management structures
                                                                                 established.
                  PRS Pillar : Achieve and Sustain a Conducive Development Environment
Macro stability    Debt contracting  ·    Presented for Parliament approval     ·     Implementation of National Debt
                   & management      the amended Loans, Guarantees and           Strategy recommendation has been

                                     Grants Act No. 30 of 1974 to ensure a       completed. Work plan developed,
                                                                                 however, further detail to be added to
                                     prudential     debt     contracting    and  ensure easier implementation.
                                     management system for government and
                                     independent public institutions.
                                     ·    Progress in the implementation of           Completed. Work plan developed,
                                     the recommendations of the national         however further detail to be added to
                                     debt strategy according to work plan        ensure easier implementation.

                                     (including activities, timeframe and
                                     responsibilities) to be approved by
                                     government.
                                     ·    Undertaken          annual       debt       Draft DSA completed and



                                                       13

                                     sustainability analysis for the period      submitted and comments have been
                                     ending June 2002, including both            received from the IMF and World Bank.
                                     domestic and external debt.
                                     ·    Developed a draft work plan                 The draft work plan for
                                     (inclusive of activities, timeframe and     implementation of the NDS has been
                                     responsibilities) for the implementation    prepared and tabled to the 5th TDMC
                                     of all the recommendations of the           members for comments before being
                                     National Debt Strategy. (NDS)               submitted to NDMC for approval.

                                     ·    Prepared annual borrowing plan              Completed. Annual borrowing and

                                     and       repayment         plan      (both repayment plan completed and
                                                                                 submitted to parliament as part of
                                     concessional and non concessional           Budget Speech.
                                     loans) inclusive of borrowing limits
                                     and presented it to Parliament as
                                     part of the annual budget.
                                     ·    Developed a complete inventory of     ·     Completed. Audit of parastatal
                                     and completed a verification and audit      contingent liabilities undertaken and

                                     of the parastatal's contingent liabilities  report shared with PRBS/PRSC donors.

                                     component of domestic debt and
                                     harmonized the treasury Resgistar's
                                     and PRSC's records on them.

                                     ·    Review the tax exemptions regime for
                      Domestic       investment (Investment Act 1997),          ·     TRA submitted the proposal for
                      Revenue        proposed options for exemptions on goods    amendment of Tax laws (other than
                                     imported under donor funded projects and    Customs Laws) and the MoF conducted
                                     programs and reviewed EPZ's legislation to  consultations with stakeholders and the
                                     limit the scope of exemptions and enable    consultations have been completed.
                                     Tanzania to take advantage of export
                                     markets under AGOA and EBA initiatives.

                                     ·    Completed preparation of and secured
                                     government approval of the new TRA         ·     TRA has continued to implement
                                     corporate plan.                             their corporate plan and has produced
                                                                                 their quarterly progress reports in a
                                                                                 timely fashion. A number of targets
                                     ·    Local government taxes and levies      have been achieved.
                                     rationalized.                              ·     The 5% Cap on local government
                                                                                 tax enforced.
Governance- Improve   Budget         ·    Approved Budget for 2003/04 in line   ·     Priority sectors and items are
effectiveness in the  formulation &  with PRS objectives, delineating budget     classified by GFS codes. Budget review
delivery of pubic     management     codes for priority sectors and items.       joint analysis conducted by Government
services and the                                                                 and donors. With supplementary budget,

overall incentive                    ·    Budget guidelines for 2004/05-         there is a net increase in allocation to
                                     2006/07 consistent with PRS priorities,     PRS sectors, compared to approved
environment                          resource needs identified during PRS        budget, mainly due to need to replenish
                                     review process and sector performance.      Strategic Gain Reserve.
                                     Guidelines issued to MDAs/LGAs.            ·     Budget Guidelines published in
                                                                                 January 2004. PER sector reports
                                                                                 prepared more timely. PRS Progress
                                                                                 Report III delayed and could therefore
                                                                                 not feed into BG preparation.
                                     ·    All LGA 2003 Budgets prepared using   ·     Completed. Recurrent and
                                     GFS classification.                         Development budget books are available
                                                                                 using GFS classification.
                                     ·    Cabinet paper on formula based        ·     Submitted to Cabinet Secretariat in
                                     recurrent inter-government transfer system  November 2003 and approved. For
                                     adopted and institutional arrangements in   2004/05 will be used mainly for health
                                     place.                                      and education.




                                                        14

                                       ·    Budget Execution for 2002/03 and      ·     Published and available for national
                                       2003/04 (FQ1 and FQ 2) in line with the     website. 2003/04 reports identify actual
                                       approved budget and with PRS priorities     expenditure by GFS code, using data
                                       consistently reported as identified         generated from IFMS.
                                       expenditure budget codes for priority
                                       sectors and in 2003/04 also by identified
                                       codes for priority items.
                                       ·    Agreed new format for LGA budget      ·     LGAs submitted first report in an
                                       execution reports by MoF and PO-RALG        agreed format for fiscal quarterJan-
                                       (by June 03). LGAs quarterly budget         march 2002. Format revision for
                                       execution for Q3 submitted to PO-RALG       expenditure was postponed in order to
                                       and consolidated information submitted to   coordinate with the DfID supported
                                       MoF in agreed format.                       Microsoft access based system which is
                                       ·                                           aimed at expenditure planning. Revenue
                                                                                   reporting format to be revised in line
                                                                                   with the new list of local government
                                                                                   taxes.

                       Public Service  ·    Pay enhancement in line with the      ·     Completed. Annual operating plans
                       Reform          approved budget for FY04.                   and action plans for 5 ministries and 8
                                                                                   independent departments are finalized
                                                                                   based on self-assessment and service
                                                                                   delivery surveys. Self assessments have
                                                                                   been completed for all MDAs and 29
                                                                                   SDSs have also been completed. The
                                                                                   remaining 5 are in draft form and will
                                                                                   soon be finalized.

                                       ·    Performance monitoring system rolled  ·     Achieved. A performance
                                       out and functioning in all MDAs.            monitoring system has been rolled out
                                                                                   and implemented in all 34 MDAs. Next
                                                                                   step is to ensure these systems are linked
                                                                                   to the MTEF process.

                                       ·    Amendment to Public Service Act No.   ·     Achieved. Amendment of Act was
                                       2 (2002) concerning management of local     approved by Parliament in November
                                       government staff prepared for presentation  2004. This reaffirms human resource
                                       to Parliament.                              autonomy for Local government
                                                                                   authorities.




Governance ­           Financial       ·    Joint PFMRP Steering Committee        ·      Action was completed in June
Minimize resource      Management      reviews 1) the establishment of a           2004.
leakage and strengthen                 management structures and 2) the
accountability                         detailed annual work plan and budget for
                                       the first phase of implementation of the
                                       PFMRP.
                                       ·    Review/improve the security of the    ·     Currently under implementation
                                       IFMS system incl: disaster recovery         involving the establishment of a disaster
                                       plan/site, access.                          recovery plan/site.

                                       ·    Key implementation strategies of      ·     The strategies are linked and
                                       PFMRP and PRSP explicitly linked.           complement each other.

                                       ·    Revised MoF organization structure    ·     A task force formed for the purpose
                                       reflecting legislative and                  has prepared draft recommendations on
                                       technological/system changes, in            the revised MoF organization structures.
                                       accordance with the Public Finance Act,     However approval for the change in
                                       submitted to the President's Office-Public  structure is vested with the President's
                                       Service Management.                         Office-Public service Management.



                                                          15

             ·    Accounting Officers (AOs) ensure that    ·     Audit committees have been
             Audit Committees are operational in all       established in 55 out of 68 MDAs and
             MDAs.                                         most are meeting regularly. ACGEN has
                                                           trained almost all of these committees'
                                                           members. The minutes of the audit
                                                           committees are received and monitored
                                                           by the Accountant General's
                                                           Department, with 95% of MDAs
                                                           committees meeting quarterly.

             ·    Implement the improved terms and         ·     Job evaluation exercise conducted
             conditions service of staff of National Audit in March/April 2002. This equated pay
             Office (NAO) which at a minimum reduces       between audit and accounting staff. New
             the disparity between audit and accounting    pay structure for entire civil service
             staff.                                        effected from 1st July 03, including for
                                                           NAO. Full implementation of new
                                                           policies of rewarding will depend on
                                                           Public Service Act and Regulations.
             ·    Review organizational and staff
             structure of NAO to carry out its statutory   ·     Review completed and approved in
             obligations.                                  May 2002. Training workshop
                                                           conducted by PSM on preparation of job
                                                           lists in April 2002. Performance
                                                           Management Systems exercise currently
                                                           underway in all MDAs in which
                                                           strategic plans with respect to core
                                                           functions of departments are being
                                                           prepared. NAO has prepared and
                                                           submitted a job list to PSM early in
                                                           2004 and is updating the list based on
                                                           comments received. All key positions
                                                           have been filled.

             ·    Preparation of Internal Audit            ·     The Internal Audit manual has been
             Instructions by Accountant General.           prepared and circulated to stakeholders
                                                           for comments. Following approval the
                                                           Manual has been issued and training will
                                                           begin to be conducted from July 2004.

             ·    Review internal audit staffing levels    ·     Draft staffing report prepared by
             and assesses skills and other resource        Internal Audit consultant under the
             requirements.                                 PFMRP. Draft currently under review
                                                           by the Accountant General's
                                                           Department.

Procurement  ·    Local Government Authority Tender        ·     Following issuance of the LG
             Boards constituted and established under      Procurement Regulations, 2003 LGA
             the new Regulations.                          Tender Boards are now established in
                                                           compliance with Regulations. Manual to
                                                           assist implementation of Regulations is
                                                           nearing completion.

             ·    CPAR conducted and the Government        ·     Action plan prepared in July 03.
             endorses the action plans.
             ·    Prepared a draft bill amending the       ·     Due to human resource capacity
             Public Procurement Act of 2001                constraints, completion of this action
             reflecting the CPAR recommendations           took longer than expected. Central
             and submitted a letter from the Attorney      Tender Board (CTB) has received 3
             General confirming that said bill will be     more staff to reinforce its capacity. New
             presented for parliamentary approval          CTB has been constituted in line with
             during the 2004 budget session.               the existing Act and started its



                               16

                                                             operations in January 2004. With the
                                                             Board being operational CTB will be in
                                                             a position to make fast decisions. The
                                                             executive secretary was appointed in
                                                             August 2003. As an interim measure,
                                                             CTB has proposed an increase of prior
                                                             review thresholds for procuring entities.

                ·    Identification of legal inconsistencies ·     LAFM review conducted in LGRP
                between Fin. Regulations (for central govt)  Annual Programme. TOR for the review
                and Local Authorities Fin. Memorandum        completed. Minister to sign revised
                (LAFM).                                      LAFM in September 2004.

                ·    Central support mechanism for LGAs      ·     A programme to support LGAs
                established to support councils using        which are already implementing the
                EPICOR.                                      Epicor based system and those LGAs to
                                                             which the system will be rolled out later
                                                             has been launched. The support will be
                                                             handled by a strengthened Systems
                                                             Development Unit within the
                                                             Accountant General's Department and it
                                                             will be zonal based. 25 graduate staff are
                                                             being recruited. Out of these 13 will be
                                                             Application Specialists and 12 will be
                                                             Technical IT specialists. A six month
                                                             training programme to orientate them in
                                                             the Epicor-based system has
                                                             commenced during the first quarter of
                                                             2004.

Anti corruption ·    Quarterly reports depicting progress    ·     The production of Quarterly
                made in the implementation of anti-          Monitoring Reports is progressing but
                corruption action plan for priority areas    there are problems of late submissions
                available timely for all MDAs.               of returns by MDAs.

                ·    Finalization of report assessing the    ·     Report not available. Recruitment
                human and financial resources necessary for  of an economist/programme officer and
                POGGCU to coordinate and implement           an accountant completed. Under public
                NACSAP.                                      service reform programme role of
                                                             GGCU to be expanded and
                                                             strengthened. To be looked at in the
                                                             context of the State House Strategic
                                                             Planning exercise and not separately.

                ·    Revised code of conduct for public      ·     Code of conduct completed for all
                service available.                           public servant, including comments
                                                             from 3 stakeholder workshops. New
                                                             code will form part of the regulations.
                                                             Following the design of the new
                                                             mechanism it will be piloted in some
                                                             MDAs.
                ·    Anti-corruption action plans for all
                LGAs included in the 2004 budget.            ·     This was delayed. Funding was
                                                             available in 2004/05 budget.

Aid             ·    Consolidate and integrate projections   ·     Completed for Budget 2003/04 and
management      of external resource flows into budget       for budget guidelines Dec 2003.
                preparation.
                ·    Develop a system for LGAs to report     ·     The system for integrating all
                to MOF through PORALG on levels of           government donor resources flowing
                direct external assistance budgeted and      within or outside the government system
                disbursed.                                   is already in place. However, capturing



                                   17

                                                                                  the resources that flow directly to
                                                                                  projects or programmes implemented by
                                                                                  sector ministries and LGAs remains the
                                                                                  key challenge for MoF.

                                       ·    Issued 1st annual TAS implementation  ·    The first Annual Implementation
                                       report.                                    Report (FY02/03) was prepared and
                                                                                  circulated by MoF following the
                                                                                  successful launch of the TAS in June
                                                                                  2002.
                          PRS Pillar : Improving Quality of Life and Social Well Being

Environmental          Environment     ·    Completed draft framework legislation ·    Completed.
sustainability                         on environmental management.
                                       ·    Developed an action plan for          ·    Draft action plan developed under
                                       implementation of new institutional        ILFEMP II revised. To be completed
                                       framework for environment management.      after the enactment of the Bill.
                                       ·    Developed an action plan for building ·    Action Plan on capacity building
                                       capacity within VPO for poverty-           under implementation. Coordinator for
                                       enviornment monitoring, including Division Programme to integrate environment
                                       of Enviornment, NEMC and Poverty           into PRS engaged; some equipment
                                       Eradication Division.                      procured, workshop conducted to
                                                                                  commence capacity building
                                                                                  component.
                                       ·    Initiated the development of a        ·    Consultant on SEA for PRSC II
                                       framework for mainstreaming EA process     engaged. Draft inception report prepared
                                       into sectoral investment programs and
                                       district initiatives.
                                       ·    Initiated mainstreaming of poverty-   ·    Proposal of poverty-environment
                                       enviornment indicators into the National   indicators has been submitted by the
                                       Poverty Monitoring System.                 consultants to the Vice President's
                                                                                  Office. The report is being further fine-
                                                                                  tuned and will be resubmitted by May
                                                                                  2005. The agreed indicators will be
                                                                                  mainstreamed into National Poverty
                                                                                  Monitoring System.
                                       Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation
Poverty Monitoring and Poverty         ·    Published PRS progress report for     ·    Final version issued and posted in
Evaluation             Monitoring and  FY03 which has been positively reviewed    the Government website. Contains
                       Evaluation      by stakeholders, including achievements    comment against achievement toward
                                       toward quantitative targets by November    quantitative targets. JSA was submitted
                                       2003.                                      to the Bank and Fund Board.
                                       ·    Progress in strengthening and         ·    The Action Plan for Building
                                       sustaining capacity of the VPO             Capacity in Support of the PRS was
                                       secretariat to support and monitor         presented to the PRS Technical
                                       implementation of the PRS according to     Committee and approved in August
                                       an updated action plan to be approved by   VPO strategic plan has been developed
                                       government.                                with technical support from PWC and is
                                                                                  expected to be finalized by June 2004.
                                                                                  Plan is expected to enable VPO to
                                                                                  access the SASE scheme, in order to
                                                                                  provide the minimum incentive package
                                                                                  necessary for sustainability of the
                                                                                  growing capacity. A full time poverty
                                                                                  monitoring officer has been recruited in
                                                                                  the PRS/PMS secretariat and the
                                                                                  Poverty Monitoring Adviser has been
                                                                                  replaced. Local area network including
                                                                                  purchase of new computers and internet
                                                                                  services have been upgraded. PO-PSM
                                                                                  has approved VPO's Medium Term
                                                                                  Strategic Plan finalized in February



                                                            18

      2004.




19

                                                 Annex 2

                                    PRSC 2 Intermediate Results Indicators

Private Sector Development:

     In 2002/03 budgetary provisions were made for the surveying of 20,000 new plots in Dar Es
Salam.
     June 2003, 76,000 new plots were established. Out of this 46,670 were allocated and owners of
36,470 survey plots were issued with title deeds.

Rural Development:
     3.8 percent of rural households have savings account, 2.8 percent participate in an informal savings
group and 1.3 percent in non-bank formal savings group. Only 0.4 percent took a bank loan in
1999/00. (2000/01 HBS)
     Direct taxes on agricultural export crops amounted to 20 percent inclusive of local taxes and
levies.

Macro Economic Stability:
     Debt to export ratio is 126 in 2003/04.

Public Expenditure Management:
     In 2003/04 budget increase in budget allocations to the priority sectors 25 percent compare to
actual spending in 2002/03. Allocation to the priority sectors remained at 46 percent in total
government spending.
     Budget execution: In 2002/03 and first half of 2003/04 it was consistent with approved budget and
PRS.
     Budget management , key results indicators
                                       2001/02  2002/03    2003/04

Share of priority sector spending in    46%      46%        46%
total spending

Share of votes with budget              35%      20%
deviations

HIPC expenditure tracking                 8       9          11
benchmarks met (out of 15)



Public Service Reform:
      Salary increased between 6 and 10 percent with the minimum wage rising from T.Sh 35,000 in
 1999 to T Sh, 55,000 (up to 57 percent).
      Pilot M&E for 8 MDA has been finished and another 19 is in the process.

 Management of Development Aid Resources:
 Integration of ODA in the Government budget 1999/00
FY                 Aid Flows        Budget      Statement of    % of Aid       % of budgeted
                   Database         Estimates   Development     Reflected in   aid reflected in
                                                Revenue         the budget     SDR



                                                     20

1999/00   317,231   214,943   67,606    68%     31%
2000/01   457,611   275,476   137,559   60%     50%
2001/02   424,198   302,272   125,010   71%     41%
2002/03   504,054   624,465   328,321   124%    53%
2003/04   622,942   667,349   475,642   107%    71%




                                  21

                                 Annex 3: PRSC-2 Outcome Indicators

Indicator                     1999   2000   2001    2002   2003    2004   Baseline Target
                                                                          (2000)   (2003)
Income Poverty
GDP growth per annum          4.7    4.9    5.7     6.2     5.7    6.7    4.9     6.0
GDP growth of agriculture     4.1    3.4    5.5     5.0    4.0     6.0    3.4     5.0
per annum
CPI for food items            8.8    6.8    6.1     4.1    4.6     5.9    6.8     4.0
Headcount rate- basic needs                 35.7                          17.9
poverty line
Headcount rate- food poverty  18.7          18.7                          9.4
line
Roads
# of kilometers of roads             378    1106    663                   378
under periodic maintenance
in a given year.
# of kilometers of roads             13220  14899   12405  16123   15015  13220
under routine maintenance in
a given year.


Agriculture
Proportion of districts                                    36      26
reported to be food insecure.

Education
Net primary school
enrollment rate:
     Male                            59     66      82     90      96     59      100
     Female                          60     66      79     87      94     60      100
 Gross primary school
 enrollment rate:
     Male                            79     86      101    109     112    79      100
     Female                          78     84      96     102     108    78      100

Girls/Boys ratio in primary          0.94   0.93    0.94   0.94    0.96   0.94    100
education (std 1)
Girls/Boys ratio in secondary        0.92   0.96    0.88   0.93    0.98   0.92    0.90
education (form 1)
Girls/Boys ratio in secondary        0.50   0.51    0.47   0.50    0.51   0.50    0.90
education (form 6)
Percent of Cohort completing
Standard VII :
     Male                            69     71             73             69
     Female                          70     76             72             70
Drop out rate in primary
school:
     Male                            5.6    5.3            4.7            5.6     3.0
     Female                          5.5    4.3            4.8            5.5     3.0
Percent of students passing
the primary school leavers
exam :
     Male                            29     36      34     48      56     29       50
     Female                          15     21      20     33      42     15       50



                                                22

Transition rate from Standard
VII to Form 1:
    Male                             17       21      22       20      28       17        28
    Female                           15       19      19       18      27       15        28

Human Capabilities: Health
Number of outpatient visit           0.5                       0.7     1.24     0.5
per capita per annum

DPTHb3 coverage               81     79       86      89               86       85

HIV prevalence rate (15-24)
Female                        10.8   10.7     12.1                     6.0%(*)  10.7
Male                          6.4    6.9      8.1                      5.2%(*)  6.9

TB treatment completion rate  76     78       81                       80       76
(cure rate)

Governance:
% of district council with    9      14       10                                14
clean audits from the
National Audit office

# of cases of corruption      13     33       53      465      1103    446      33
reported

# of convictions for          9      6        0       12       11      -        6
corruption
Gender:
Proportion of women among                     24%     24%      24%     24%
senior civil servants
(*) This does not reflect a decline. Earlier figures were from (unrepresentative) sentinel sites,
These 2004 numbers are from the first nationally representative blood sample.




                                                  23

