Page  1
 
 
27434 
 
INITIAL PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Project Name: 
Tanzania Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region: 
Africa 
Sector: 
Multisectoral 
Project ID: 
P074073
 
Implementing Agency: 
Ministry of Finance 
 Government 
of 
Tanzania 
Contact Person: 
Mr. Peniel Lyimo 
 Permanent 
Secretary 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Date of PID: 
November 5, 2003 
Projected Appraisal Date:
 March 
2004 
Projected Board Date: 
June 10, 2004 
 
Country Background 
 
Tanzania is one of the poorest countries of the world. Per capita income is estimated at about 
$280 per year.  Covering an area of 945,000 square kilometers, it has a population of about 33 
million growing at about 2.4 percent a year.  The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture 
(primarily, coffee, cotton, tea, cashew nuts, sisal, maize, rice, wheat, cassava, and tobacco), which 
accounts for about 50 percent of GDP, provides 85 percent of exports, and is by far the largest 
employer.  Industry accounts for some 15 percent of GDP and is mainly limited to processing 
agricultural products and light consumer goods.  The mining sector has good potential, but has 
yet to be fully developed.  Tourism is one of Tanzania's dynamic sectors and has shown 
significant growth in recent years.  The service sector and the informal sector are an increasingly 
important source of employment. 
 
Tanzania’s macroeconomic performance has continued to improve in recent years.  The annual 
growth rate increased from 4.9 percent in 2000 to 6.2 percent in 2002, and is projected at 5.5 
percent in 2003 despite adverse weather conditions affecting agricultural production negatively.  
Conservative fiscal policies, supported by a cautious monetary policy, contributed to a decline in 
inflation from 7 percent at end-1999 to some 4.6 percent by the middle of 2003.  The current 
account deficit (before grants) of the balance of payments declined from 12 percent of GDP in 
1999 to about 7.4 percent in 2002, reflecting in particular the coming on stream of gold exports. 
 
Although Tanzania experienced economic difficulties and worsening poverty in the early 1990s 
the benefits of the more recent growth have reversed the trend.  During the past decade, food 
poverty has declined from 21.6 percent to 18.7 percent while basic needs poverty is from 38.6 
percent to 35.7 percent. 
 
Tanzania has embarked on comprehensive structural reforms to improve economic governance, 
enhance public service delivery, and create an enabling environment for private sector activities.  
Reforms in the area of public financial management include the implementation of an integrated 
financial management system, the adoption of an inclusive Public Expenditure Review/Medium 
Term Expenditure Framework process, and the revision of the public finance management and 
the public procurement acts.  The first phase of Civil Service Reform involving downsizing of the 
Page  2
 
 
civil service and bringing the wage bill under control has been completed.  Reforms are now 
entering their second phase and will increasingly focus on public sector performance.  A Local 
Government Reform Program aims at strengthening capacities of the local authorities which bear 
the primary responsibility for basic service delivery in priority sectors such as basic education, 
primary health, water, and rural roads.  A national action plan for the control of corruption as well 
as sector specific anti-corruption plans are being implemented.  Progress in reducing corruption is 
partly mirrored by the improvement in Tanzania’s relative position on the Transparency 
International corruption perception index.  The share of countries receiving a poorer rating than 
Tanzania increased from 6 percent in 1999 to 31 percent in 2003.  
 
In addition to the overall measures to improve economic governance, public service delivery is 
being enhanced by establishing sector development programs for key sectors such as health, 
education, agriculture, and roads and by according them priority during budget formulation and 
implementation. 
 
Government has shown a strong commitment to withdraw from commercial activities and to 
define its role as an enabler of private sector activities.  Key achievements in this area include the 
privatization of a large number of parastatals.  This includes the privatization of the fixed net 
telephone operator with a parallel liberalization of the wireless telephone market, which resulted 
in a rapid increase in the number of subscribers.  Similarly, government has disinvested its 
interests in and liberalized the banking sector, which has experienced a sharp increase in the 
number of private sector banks to 23 now operating in the country.   
 
A key government strategy is to improve the investment climate in order to stimulate a more 
rapid expansion of local and foreign private investment.  A notable success in this area is the 
setup of a policy framework for mining activities in the mid 1990s, which has since experienced 
two-digit growth rates.  Other important measures include the revision of legislation, including 
the company law, and the liberalization of capital markets. 
 
Tanzania developed through a broad-based participation process including the poor, civil society, 
NGOs, and various other stakeholders a poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) in 2000 and 
progress reports in 2001 and 2003.  The poverty reduction strategy (PRS) focuses on three main 
areas of outcomes and actions for realizing them. The first is 
reduction in the breadth and 
depth of income poverty.
  The outcome targets include reduction of basic needs poverty and 
food poverty with a particular focus on rural areas, where poverty is most prevalent. The second 
area is that of 
improving the quality of life and social-well being
.  More specifically this entails 
improving human capabilities, enhanced longevity of survival, social well being (social inclusion 
and personal security), improved nutrition and containing extreme vulnerability (mainly through 
safety nets).  The third broad area is 
sustained conducive development environment.
  The 
environment encompasses macroeconomic stability and good governance.  The PRSP has also 
become an important instrument for coordination within government to ensure coherence of the 
various sectoral and cross sectoral reform efforts in support of poverty reduction. 
 
PRSC2 Objectives and Description 
 
The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) will support the implementation of Tanzania’s 
PRS.  The financial support provided through the PRSC will close the gap between the cost of 
implementing key elements of the PRS and resources available from government’s own domestic 
revenue and other donor support.  A policy dialogue and performance assessment framework 
Page  3
 
 
under the PRSC will focus on the following cross-cutting and institutional actions which will 
facilitate progress towards the PRS objectives. 
 
(i) Sustaining and accelerating growth and broadening its impact
:  Reducing income poverty 
is one of they key focus areas of the PRS.  Private sector and rural development are the two areas 
where reforms are expected to have the biggest impact on reducing income poverty in Tanzania.  
Reforms in the areas of agricultural and rural development are intended to raise agricultural 
productivity and thus enhance the incomes of the population in rural areas, were poverty is most 
widespread and most deeply entrenched.  Measures include enhancement of the profitability of 
agriculture broadly and export products of rural origin in particular, through better quality higher 
productivity, reduced marketing cost and improved access to markets and to credit; removal of 
institutional constraints remaining on rural activities; and correcting the incentives provided by 
the overall tax regime.  With respect to private sector development, the focus will be on 
strengthening of the business environment, in particular for SMEs, and legal and administrative 
reforms to enhance the functioning of land, credit, and labor markets. 
 
(ii) Support results orientation of public service delivery:
 The second area of impact is 
through monitoring and leveraging progress in the implementation of sectoral programs to reduce 
poverty, covering the priority sectors identified in the PRS, i.e., primary education, basic health, 
water, rural roads, agricultural research and extension, the judiciary, and HIV/AIDS.  The PRSC 
policy dialogue focuses on the establishment of a robust monitoring and evaluation system that 
allows an assessment of the impact and results of sectoral programs.  The information derived 
from the monitoring and evaluation system will then feed into the assessment of progress towards 
the PRS objective, on which future PRSC support will be contingent.  Finally, the resources 
provided through the PRSC complement government and other donor resources in financing 
priority programs for poverty reduction.  The well developed participatory PER-MTEF process 
provides a mechanism for the monitoring of the use of resources. 
 
(iii) Enhance public sector performance:
 Measures in this area will have a direct impact on 
poverty reduction as they enhance public sector capacity to implement poverty reduction 
programs in the priority sectors and generate additional funds for poverty reduction by reducing 
leakages in the form of low allocative or operational efficiency of public expenditures.  Key areas 
of reform include strengthening of financial management through the implementation of the 
public financial management reform program, strengthening of the national audit office, 
implementation of pay reform coupled with improved performance management in the public 
sector, procurement reform, the implementation of anti-corruption strategies, and enhanced 
efficiency in the use of development assistance.
 
 
(iv) Strengthen environmental management:
 Finally, the PRSC also supports government’s 
efforts to enhance environmental sustainability of Tanzania’s development program.  The PRS 
identifies this as an important element of efforts to improve the quality of life and social well-
being. 
 
Financing 
 
The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$150 million equivalent, which will be released at 
credit effectiveness.  This amount is considered necessary to finance the 2004/05 fiscal gap to 
support the implementation of the PRS. 
 
Page  4
 
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
The environmental classification of the operation is to be determined. PRSC1 was classified as a 
Sectoral Adjustment Credit which is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts 
(Category C).  PRSC2 is a macro economic and budget reform program.  Environmental as well 
as social issues may arise from specific project activities in several sectors that are considered 
beyond the scope of this specific operation.  Many of these activities are part of parallel Bank 
sponsored programs, as well as other donor supported initiatives, and there will be assurances 
made that provisions are in place for addressing any significant environmental and social issues in 
accordance with Bank safeguard policies.  A permanent environmental specialist has recently 
been assigned to the country office in Dar es Salaam assuring appropriate safeguard adherence by 
the Bank. 
 
Although PRSC2 has no potential large scale, significant, and/or irreversible impacts directly 
related to this operation, strengthening Tanzania's institutional capacity to carry out 
environmental assessments will be an objective during PRSC2 implementation to ensure that 
appropriate mechanisms are in place that will allow future PRSCs to address sectoral issues.  
Funding for such activities is provided through a PHRD grant as well as support from other 
donors such as UNDP in addition to government's own resources.  Specific use of Strategic 
Environmental Assessments (SEA) will be made for sectors included in future PRSCs. 
 
A continuing program by the donor community is supporting environmental management and 
regulation at the central government level as well as at several key sectors.  The National 
Environment Management Council and the Department of Environment have been attempting to 
harmonize their respective roles and responsibilities.  Environmental legislation is pending 
approval. EIA capacity building is supported through government, parastatal, NGO and donor 
involvement. 
 
An Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet has been prepared and will be publicly available. 
 
Benefits and Risks of the Program 
 
Benefits:
 The PRSC2 is designed to help the government implement its homegrown PRS and 
reach the goals articulated in the strategy.  The reforms supported under the program will help 
raise growth and strengthen the institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public sector’s 
capacity to carry out its role more effectively, as envisioned in the PRS.  A stable macroeconomic 
environment, improved budget execution, strong economic governance, an environment 
conducive to private sector and rural development (especially enhanced agricultural productivity 
and profitability), and a well-performing public sector offering the improved delivery of public 
services are essential if the government is to reach its goals for poverty reduction and improve the 
quality of life in Tanzania.  A vital related element would be the effective monitoring and 
assessment of the progress and pitfalls related to the implementation of the PRS. 
 
Risks and Efforts to Mitigate Them: 
There are several risks associated with PRSC2: (i) many 
of the reforms supported by the credit might encounter resistance from vested interests, but 
government has in the past shown determination to overcome such special interests; (ii) 
government tries to build broad consensus for reforms through consultative processes which 
sometimes tends to slow down the pace of reforms, however, the benefits of this approach clearly 
outweigh the risk; (iii) the utilization of PRSC funds is determined by the budget process and 
there is a risk that resource allocation is not fully consistent with the PRS, however, government 
Page  5
 
 
has adopted an open and participative budget process including an annual PER process which 
helps to align and monitor resource allocation and its consistency with the PRS; (iv) the CFAA 
and the CPAR identified significant fiduciary risk, which the proposed reform agenda is meant to 
address; and (v) capacity for program implementation and service delivery at both the central and 
district level is weak, however, in key areas programs are in place to strengthen capacity. 
 
Program Objective Category (POC) 
 
The operation falls under the poverty reduction POC. 
Contact Points 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW. 
Washington DC 20433 
Tel. (202) 458-5454 
Fax. (202) 522-1500 
 
Task Team Leader 
Robert Johann Utz 
Senior Economist 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management II 
Tel. (202) 473 0612 
Fax. (202) 473 8262
 
