Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER   3965  TA 
GRANT NUMBER   H118  TA 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   August 5, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER   3965   TA 
 
GRANT NUMBER   H118  TA 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 2004 between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated  June 
30, 2004 (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to eradicate poverty from the Borrower’s territory (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by extending the Credit 
and the Grant to the Borrower as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004) 
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:  
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“BOT” means Bank of Tanzania, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b) 
“Country Procurement Assessment Report” or “CPAR” means the 
Borrower’s procurement assessment report, dated April 30, 2003; 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and ending 
on June 30 of the following year;  
(e) 
“PO-RALG” means the Borrower’s President’s Office – Regional 
Administration and Local Governments; 
(f) 
“PRS” means the Borrower’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as detailed in the 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper dated November 2, 2000, as updated and amended;  
(g) 
“Public Financial Management Reform Program” or “PFMRP” means the 
program developed by the Borrower to reform public financial management in Tanzania, as 
updated and amended; and 
(h) 
“Steering Committee” means the Borrower’s steering committee for the 
PFMRP. 
ARTICLE II
 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-one million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,000,000) (the Credit); and 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-one million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 61,600,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Financing from the Financing 
Accounts in support of the Program. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Financing Accounts, and thereafter maintain in BOT, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Financing shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such request shall be credited to the Financing Accounts for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the principal amount of 
the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as the case may 
be) or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual 
date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that 
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2015 and ending July 15, 
2044. Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2024, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determ
ining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment 
of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, 
Page  6
-
5
-
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09.  BOT is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
the Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect. 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
United Republic of Tanzania 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
 
  Facsimile: 
TREASURY 
 
 
41329 
 
 
(255) 222 11 77 90  
Dar es Salaam 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in 
 
Washington, D.C.,  as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By  /s/  Andrew Daraja 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/  Judy O’Connor 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed 
or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10 -
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Financing during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11 -
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
The Borrower has:  
(a) 
presented for parliamentary approval a bill amending the Land Act, 1999, in 
order to ensure improved clarity of property rights, securitization of land and streamlined 
procedures for real estate transactions, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8 of 
the Letter of Development Policy;  
(b) 
presented for parliamentary approval labor legislation, related to 
employment relations, collective labor relations, dispute resolutions and labor market 
institutions, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 9 of the Letter of Development 
Policy; 
(c) 
reviewed the business licensing system after consultation with stakeholders, 
prepared a position paper on business licensing reforms, and presented for parliamentary 
approval amendments to the Business Licensing Act, 1972, introducing reforms of the 
business licensing system, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
(d) 
rationalized local government taxes and levies, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 26 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(e) 
approved the budget for FY 2004 in line with PRS objectives, delineating 
budget codes for priority sectors and items, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 29 
of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(f) 
executed the FY 2003 budget and first semester of  the FY 2004 budget in line 
with its approved budget and PRS priorities, and reported such budget execution as per 
identified expenditure budget codes for priority sectors, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 32 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(g) 
implemented pay enhancement for civil servants in line with the approved 
budget for FY 2004, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 39 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
(h) 
ensured that the Steering Committee has reviewed: (i) the establishment of a 
management structure for the PFMRP; and (ii) the detailed annual work plan and budget for 
Page  14
-
13 -
the first phase of implementation of the PFMRP, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 41 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
(i) 
prepared a draft bill amending the Public Procurement Act, 2001, reflecting 
the CPAR recommendations, and submitted a letter from the Attorney General confirming 
that said bill will be presented for parliamentary approval during the 2004 budget session, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 45 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(j) 
established procurement tender boards in each local government authority in 
accordance with the recommendations of the CPAR, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 46 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
(k) 
presented for parliamentary approval, as part of the annual budget, its annual 
borrowing and repayment plan, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 23 of the 
Letter of Development Policy;  
(l) 
enhanced the capacity of the Borrower’s Vice President’s Office to support 
and monitor implementation of the PRS, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 18 
of the Letter of Development Policy; and 
(m) 
enhanced the capacity of PO-RALG for collecting, collating, and analyzing 
administrative data, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Letter of 
Development Policy. 
Page  15
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally applicable to 
the Development Financing Agreement to the extent and subject to any 
modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
2. 
Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Borrower” means the party to the Development Financing 
Agreement to which the Financing is made.” 
(b) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“8. 
“Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, 
as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  Development 
Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as applied thereto, 
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
(c) 
The following new paragraphs are added after paragraph 11 of 
Section 2.01, and paragraphs 12 through 14 are renumbered as paragraphs 16 
through 18 accordingly: 
“12.  
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement;” 
“13. 
 “Grant Account” means the account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the 
amount of the Grant is credited;” 
Page  16
-
15 -
“14.  
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant;” 
and 
“15. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and 
the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account).” 
 
(d) 
Paragraph 16 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“16. 
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Financing Agreement, in support of which the Financing is 
made.” 
3. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of 
the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01 (3), 2.01 (12), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01 (d), Article VIII, 
and Article IX. 
4. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of 
the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01 (6), the 
heading of Article III, Section 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
5. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
6. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“Section 3.01. Financing Accounts
.
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall 
be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
7. 
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be made in the currency of 
Page  17
-
16 -
the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
8. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Financing 
from the Financing Accounts in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Financing Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
9. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
10. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development grant 
agreement)” is added to Section 6.02 (a) (ii) after the words “any development credit 
agreement”, to Section 6.02 (c) (i) after the words “any development credit agreement”, and 
to Section 7.01 (b) (i) after the words “any other development credit agreement”.   
11. 
Section 6.05 is modified to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the 
several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the 
date of such cancellation.” 
12. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Financing Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Financing Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
13. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 
are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
