Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCUL USE ONLY
fepmt NPb P-3870-GB
REPORT AND  Cm
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIOIAL DE    PMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.0 MILLION
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 17, 1984
I Thk docuez has a resWldc  distrhfm ad may be used by reiienly in She perfemamece of
|mr e.ed duti. Us contents my net idhwlse be disdued withot lWldt Bak sulhrat.



CURHWCY EQUIVALEMS
Currency Unit = Gainea-Bissau Peso (GP)
US31.0 = GP 106.65
GP S million = ISS 9,376
FISCAL YEAR
January t - December 31
ABBRSVIXTIONS AND CRONYIiS
BIG     =    Banco lac-onal da G,i,n5-Bissau
PAO     =    Food and Agriculture Organization
PrAI    =    Mi:ste-rio da Administraao Interna, FurLao Piiblica
e Trabalho
lCT     ~    U-= ?!irsterio de Comercio e Turismo
PEPCI   =    Ministirio de Coordenago Zcon6mica, Plano, e Cooperaao
Internacional
KF      =    Ministerio das Finangas
XOPCU   =    Ministerio de Obras Puiblicas, Construgio e Urbanismo
PMNI    =    Kinisterio dos Recursos Naturais e Industria
?AIGC   =    Partido Africano para a independancia de Guine-Bissau e
Cabo Verde
SIDA    =    Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP    =    United Nations Developaent Program
UNESCO  =    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GTJN&-BIStSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND P5OJBCT SUWKARY
Borrower:           Republic of Guines-Bissau
Amount:             SDR 6.0 milion (USS6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA
Project
Description:        The proposed project aims to assist the ;Government in
strengthening the macro-economni management capabiLity of
k'ey economic ministries, strengthening the operational ca-
pac;ty of other --iitr-ies, and developing a sound institu-
tional framework in newly-created ministries and agencies.
It would thus assist the Gcverzment in the formulation and
implementation of the economic recovery program for vhich
IDA direct financial support may be requested. The project
would provide for:
a.  senior advisors to the Office of the President, the
PUnistry of Economic Coordination, Planning and Inter-
national Cooperation (MEPCI), the Ministry of Finance
(1(F), and the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BNG) -
the principal authorities responsible for economic
policy and management;
b. consultants to other Government ministries in critical
sectors: commerce, energy and industry, fisheries and
.nternal administration;
c. studies to assist in the definition and implementation
of economic adjustment and financial stabilization
measures;
d.  training of counterpart staff, including feIlowships
for training locally and abroad;
e.  equipment, materials, vehicles and housing for use by
project advisors and consultants.
Benefits
and Risks:          Guinea-Bissau would benefit by increased governmental capa-
city to conceive and implement sound, comprehensive and
consistent macro-economic policies and to pursue adjustme-nt
This docwent has a resticted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofiia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without Vorld Bank authorization.



in the institutional capabilties of the key economic
aLni-stries and of other important ministries and Government
agencies through studies and recommendations for reform.
The main risks of the project derive from the difficulties
in attracting highly qualified foreign experts, given the
_oring and liviLng conditions in Guinea-Bissau, and also
the serious lack of needed couaterpart staff. The Govern-
ment's awareness of the naed for effective technical
assistance and for economic adjustment and financial stabi-
lization is reflected in t;he firm measures it has taken in
recent months in support of this objective.
Est-mated Cost:              --------JSS -thousands eouivalent-----
(includi.ng taxes)           Local          Fore-gn              Total
Long-term advisers             180           1,540                1,720
Studies and short-
term coasultants                50             q80                 830
Training and fellow-
ships                           50             450                  500
Project Management              50             350                 400
Equipment, materials
and vehicles                    40             350                  390
iousing & other cizil works    400             150                 550
junior Economiists, Secre-
tarial and Support Ser-
-7ices                         t50              35                  185
4ctivities to be identified
during project implementation   15             985                1,000
Base Costs                 935           4,640               5,575
ContLngencies
- Physical                  45              60                  105
- Price                   t120             700                 820
Total Project Costs          1,100           5,400                6,500
Financing Plan               -US$ thousands equivalent-
Local          Foreign              Total
IDA                            600           5,400                6,000
Government                     500               -                  500
Total                        1,100           5,400                6,500



Estimated Disburs-ments       ---- - --US  thousands equivalent------
FT85        FY86        FY87         FY88        FY89
Annual                  1,677        2,015       1,365          703         240
Iumulati ve             1,677        3,692       5,057        5,760       6,000
Estimated Completion Date:  Dece,mber 1998
Staff Appraisal Report:   none prepared
Ia: I3BRD '5779R
1/ This schedule conforms broadly to the disbursement profile for technical
assistance projects in the Easterr and Western Africa regions. However, the
first fiscal year will include disbursements for activities financed under
the PPF advance, actlivities that must be performed during the first year of
project implementation - i.e., construction of housing, studies required in
support of structural adjustment - and the financing of consultants already
identified and/or recruited.



IJIEREATIOEAL DETIWNUT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEk-BISSAU
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau for an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 6.0 million (USS6.0 million equi-
valent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The latest economic report on Guinea-Bissau (3529-GUB), dated Kay 21,
1982, has been circulated to the Executive Directors. The following assessment
of the current situation and prospects of the economy is based on the conclu-
s.ons of that report and updated information obtained by subsequent economic
missions and discussions with government officials. Country data appear in
Annex I.
The Setting
3.      Guinea-Bissau is a small nation of about 500,000 inhabitants (1983)
located on the Vest African coast between Senegal and Guinea. The country
covers an area of 36,135 km , including the Archipelago of Bijagos. The terri-
tory is generally flat with a few hills and a coastline interrupted by seven
large estuaries which run far inland.  The soils are mostly alluvial and fer-
tile; rainfall is sufficient for a variety of crops, but the country is not
immune from drought. The soc-iety is segmented, with several ethnic groups.
Bissau is the national capital, the country's largest city, and its main port.
4.      Guinea-Bissau became independent in 1974 and has since been governed
by the sole political party (PAIGC) as a non-aligned centrally planned eco-
nomy. For the most part, the Government controls the modern sector of the eco-
nomy, with a smallholder sector prevalent in agriculture. Politically, Guinea-
Bissau has been quite stable, despite a change in the party leadership in late
1980. In April 1984 regional representatives were elected to a National Assem-
bly which in May approved the country'3 second constitution and elected a Pre-
sident, Joao Bernardo Vieira, formerly President of the Revolutionary Council.
President Vieira formed a new Government on July 16, 1984, which took, office
on July 20, 1984. It consists of four ministers of state (including two Vice-
Presidents), ten ministers and twelve secretaries of State.



-2-
5.      Guinea-3issau's aeconomic sLtuation has been difficult. A war .or inde-
pendence resalted in t-ie destruction of part of the limited economic infra-
structure. The country's administrative capacity was further reduced with the
exodus of the ?ortaguaese, and it has had to depend on international assistance
for most essential supplies. To rehabilitate and develop the economy, the
Governmeat relied on the growth of the public and parastatal sector, but lack
of administrative experience and unwise investment decisions led the country
into serious deficits and external indebtedness.  Today, Guinea-Bissau is
still among the poorest countries in the world.  GDP per capita is around
US$190 (1982), life expectancy at birth is 42 years, and 75% of the population
as illiterate.  Only one-tenth of the people, mainly in urban areas, have ac-
cess co safe water.  Waterborne diseases are rampant and mortality rates reach
20 percent arcag children.
6.      Despite this grim situzation, the country has a potential for develop-
ment in the longer term.  With good soils and large uncultivated areas, agri-
cultural output could adequately meet domestic demand for foodstuffs and in-
crease export earnings.  Tnere are promising indications that commercial de-
velop -nt of petroleum, bauxite and phosphates will be possible. Identified
resources in fisheries and forestry could generate substant.al foreign ex-
change in the zedizm term and, with other raw materials and traditional
skills, provide the basis for a small manufacturing sector.
Structure of the Econory
7.      Agriculture is the most important resource of Guilnea-Bissau.  It ac-
counts for about 50% of GDP, most of the country's employment, and 60% of ex-
ports.  The sector is basically subsistence-criented, producing rice (the  a-in
staple), sorghum and millet; agri:ulLural exports are mainly groundnuts, palm
kernels and cashew nuts.  Perfrrmance has been poor owing to lack of incen-
tives, inadequate infrastructure, and unfavorable weather conditions. An
overvalued exchange .ate (between 1978 and 1983, the Guinean peso was pegged
to the SDR, while in the same period the main trading partners devalued by
around 20-25%) and inadequate producer prices have contributed to smuggling of
export crops and some food crops (e.g. rice).
B.      The fisherieL sector contributes only about 2% to GDP, but has shown
considerable scope Eor development, based on joint ventures with the USSR
(Estrela do Kar), Algeria (GUIALP). and Senegal and France (SEKAPESCA) to cap-
ture and market fish products, and on provision of licenses for foreign boats
to operate in Guinean territorial waters under bilateral agreements. Catches
of foreign boats were estimated at about 140,000 tons in 1983, compared to an
estimated potential of 250,000 tons.  Domestic landings, however, are only
about 1,OOOt per year, supplemented by about 4,000t from artisanal fishing.
The Algerian joint venture has been shut down and its boats sold. Senegal has
withdrawn from 3E.MAPESCA ani the EEC is providing 4 million ECUs to assist in
rehabilitating the enterprise.  The Government is taking steps to raise arti-
sanal outpu' by providing fishermen with improved equipment and adequate mar-
keting support.
9.      With 65%o of its territory covered by forests, Gu-nea-Bissau has a good
potential for forestry development.  However, only 8,500 tons of timber are
now produced annually of which 2,500 tons are exported. The sector is managed
by a state-owned company (SOCOTRAM) which is receiving assistance from the



-3-
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) to improve its management
and diversify its activities.
10.     The industrial sector is still underdeveloped (10% of GDP), and in-
cludes a ship repair yard, some old plants for hulling rice and groundnuts, a
few bakeries, some icemaking units, and several repair shops for transport
equipment. Modern plants include a brewery, an assembly plant for Citroen
cars, a groundnut processing plant, a SIDA-financed brick factory in Bafata
which operates at 75p capacity, a mechanical workshop, a foundry, a wood-
veneer producing plant (FOLBI), and several other units which were created
during 1975-79. The sector was affected by the lack of planning and project
evaluation capacity in the years immediately after independence and most in-
dustrial units work at only a fraction of capacity, hampered by insufficient
imported raw materials and spare parts, and lack of adequate management and
trained workers. Of some 30 public and mixed enterprises, only one showed a
profit in 1981.
11.     The poor state of transport infrastructure has been a major constraint
on development. The north is served by roads in need of repair and rehabtli-
tation, a situation which was addressed by IDA's First Roads Project and which
will receive further support from the Second Roads project. The south, the
rice growing region, with the most promising agricultural potential for domes-
tic consumption, is badly served.  Inland ports and feeder roads are equally
poor. The port of Bissau, which handles most of the country's foreign trade,
has inadequate facilities. Assistance for rehabilitation of its commercial
berth and of its navigation aid system is being provided by a US$16.0 million
IDA Credit for the Bissau Port Project, approved on June 23, 1983.
Recent Developments
12.     Recent ecoaomic performance in Guinea-Bissau has been disappointing.
After a modest growth of about 3.0% p.a. during 1975-79, real GDP declined by
about 5% in 1980 and in 1981.  In 1982 real GDP rose by 4.2% but declined
again in 1983 by 5.1%O. A growth rate of about 3% is expected for 1984. Agri-
cultural production was affected by droughts, and foreign exchange constraints
induced supply shortages of imported goods, leading to a decline in industrial
output.
13.     The current difficult situation of Guinea-Bissau stems in part from
policies followed after independence. Substantial international assistance,
but inadequate aid management, led to a mushrooming of projects, many of them
ill-conceived, and dispersion and overlapping of efforts. Investment financed
from abroad was high (20-25° of GDP), but until 1982 most of it was allocated
to infrastructure, the social sectors, and to over-ambitious industrial pro-
jects. Poor producer prices in the rural sector contributed to a lack of in-
vestment and production incentives for farmers already hurt by the overvalued
currency and export taxes. Consequently, agricultural output was sluggish,
with foodstuffs unable to meet domestic demand, and exports insufficient to
generate the foreign exchange needed to meet the demand for imported consumer
goods and inputs to the modern sector. Capital flows, although large, covered
only part of the current account deficit, so that foreign reserves declined
drastically and net foreign assets have been negative since 1978. Meanwhile,
the role of the public sector grew well beyond its financing capacity, with
the result that bank credit financed about 50% of current budget outlays.



-4-
14.     The Government is committed to remedying the major economic disequili-
bria with renewed emphasis oa agricultural development. In October 1982 a
Council of Ministers for Economic Affairs was created.   A two-year StabiLiza-
tion Program (1983-1984) was prepared in February, 1983, the first stage of
which was enacted on December 23, 1983. The peso was devalued by 1J0% from 41
to 82 to the US dollar and weekly devaluations of 1% have taken place since.
Export taxes have been reduced and reforms have begun in the state trading
sector, whereby pri-vate traders have been permitted to engage in foreign trade
and to have a greater role in the domestic distribution sector. The sale
and/or transfer of the stores of the state-owned trading companies to private
merchants has begun. Farm prices have been raised by between 70% and 120%.
Furtner reforms, including measures to generate additional fiscal revenues,
have been promulgated and consumer price increases were introduced in April
1984. A first development plan covering the years 1983-86 was recently adopted
and was presented to a UNDP-sponsored donors' Round Table held in Lisbon May
21-23, 1984. The government's development strategy, as set forth in the Plan,
iacludes, after implementation of the stabilization program, priority invest-
ments, specifically in agriculture, fisheries, wood production and mining,
sectors where iacareased production would be designed to enable the country to
attain food self-sufficiency and expand exports. The country is also seeking
technical assistance to strengthen economic management.
15.     Guinea-Bissau's external payments position has been extremely diffi-
cult. Between 1977 and 1980, imports of goods and services (mainly capital
goods and foodstuffs) grew by about 20% per annum, three times faster than
exports, leading to a resource gap equal to 30% of GDP. In spite of substan-
tial capital inflow3 and foreign grants (averaging US$28 million and US$31
million respectively) the overall deficit reached US$8 million in 1980. In
1981 the situation improved; imports declined by 6.6% compared with 1980 and
exports increased by 12.5%. Conversely, the situation further deteriorated in
1982 and 1983: exports decreased by 34% and imports increased by 23%. Net
inflows of medium and long-term capital continued to rise, partly to cover the
growing debt service which reached US$10.1 million in 1981, or about 70% of
exports. At' end-1982, external debt was at US$125 million (US$165 million
including undisbursed); payment difficulties had increased and arrears on
medium and long-term loans were estimated at US$21.1 million (US$29.4 million
including arrears on short-term loans and suppliers credits). Help from the
IM4P was provided in 1981 (an SDR 1.9 million Compensatory Financing Facility),
and from Portugal in 1982 under bilateral assistance.
16.     Guinea-Bi3sau's government has shown an encouraging recognition of
past difficulties in economic policies, and a convincing commitment to rehabi-
litate the nation's economy. At a donor's conference held in November 1983 in
collaboration with the Bank and the Fund, the Government outlined its stabili-
zation and reform program and secured assurance of more than $15 million in
emergency external aid, the principal contributors being Sweden, Portugal, the
Netherlands and the EEC. To address immediate needs for foreign exchange sup-
port, agreement was reached with the IMF on a stand-by program for the first
credit tranche and prospects are that a subsequent stand-by agreement for the
upper credit tranches will be reached in 1985. The Association, in turn, has
begun discussions with the Government concerning a program of support to eco-
nomic recovery efforts.



-5-
17.     The Government has thus launched a politically courageous program of
economic reform. Nevertheless, recovery will be difficult in spite of the
Government's commitment. A consistent poLicy to expand exports is urgently
required. To help this young nation place its economy on a sound footing,
heavy inflows of external assistance are now required. In view of the coun-
try's extremely limited fiscal capacity, and its high debt service burden,
external capital assistance on very soft terms will be needed to cover a large
share of project costs; non-project financing would be advantageous.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA-BISSAU
18.     IDA has made five credits to Guinea-Bissau totalling US$52.9 million.
Three have been in the transport sector and two were for petroleum exploration
promotion. Annex II contains a summary of IDA operations in Guinea-Bissau.
19.     In keeping with Government strategy in the transport sector, IDA
assistance has concentrated on urgently required rehabilitation and mainten-
ance of roads in the First Roads Project, Credit 878-GUB for US$9.0 million,
approved in FY79, and the Second Roads Project, Credit 1473 - GUB for $8.0
million approved in FY84. Further assistance in this regard is being provided
by the Bissau Port Project, Credit 1392-GUB for $16.0 million, approved in
FY83 and aimed at rehabilitating the Port of Bissau and subsidiary river ports
throughout the country. The two credits in the petroleum sector are assisting
the Government to promote offshore oil exploration and provide for collection,
processing, and evaluation of seismic data, traiaing and physical facilities,
as well as assistance in establishing a sound legal framework for negotiating
exploration contracts. The surveys financed under the First Oil Exploration
Project led to the identification of six off-shore lots which were submitted
for bids to interested companies. In November 1983 a consortium headed by
ELF!Aquitaine began drilling operations.
20.     Technical assistance has played an important role in the above pro-
jects. In the First Roads Project, approximately $2.4 million was successfully
employed to provide engineering, administrative, supervisory and mechanical
expertise. A major success of this assistance was that Guinean staff was
trained to perform the functions of the expatriate advisors once they left the
country. Aside from the technical data surveys financed under the two Petro-
leum Exploration Promotion Projects, these provided $2.9 million and $2.0,
respectively, for exploration, accounting, legal and economic consultants,
studies and training, which have effectively been employed to strengthen the
institutions in the sector. The Bissau Port Project allocates approximately
$4.9 million (or 30% of Credit funds) for technical assistance to the port
authority and the Ministry of Transport. The Second Roads Project includes
$3.0 million for support to the various directorates of the Ministry of Public
Works as well as to finance training and needed sectoral studies.



-6-
21.     Future IDA operations in Guinea-Bissau in the medium term should con-
tinue to be responsive to the Goverrunent's economic policy reforms as well as
to its requests for assistanc.- in the rehabilitation of its infrastructure.
Under the FAO and UNESCO Cooperative Programs surveys of the agriculture and
educatioa sectors were carried out in 1983, and will form the basis for future
discussions with Governaent. These reviews may open the way for direct IDA
participation in these important 3ectors, to supplement bilateral aid pro-
grams.  A Bank mission visited Bissau in July 1984 to appraise an $8.0 million
credit to finance urgently needed imports of producer goods, spare parts and
intermediate goods.  Further lending to support the economic recovery program,
in keeping with Government's request, could take the Eorm of additional tech-
nical assistance and credit for rehabilitation of state enterprises.  The
Government has also expressed interest in receiving IDA assistance for the
energy sector during discussions in July 1984 of an Energy Assessment prepared
under the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
22.     In the years following independence from Portugal, technical assist-
ance to Guinea-Bissau has mostly been limited to technical ministries and pub-
lic agencies, and more often than not directly related to projects. The bulk
of technical assistance has been provided by the UNDP (about $3.0 million per
year), SI3A (about $0.5 million per year until 1981, then $2.0 million), and
the Nietherlands (S2.0 million per year). SIDA assistance has concentrated on
rural development, artisanal fishing, telecommunications and education. Most
assistance is provided at the technical level: teachers (Portugal), agrono-
mists, electrical maintenance personnel, accountants (UND?, Portlgal, FAO,
SIDA), and airplane pilots (Portugal). Some technical assistants are project
team leaders and primarily perform administrative functions (UNDP, Portugal).
There are only a few cases where technical assistance is provided for policy
advice as such. The IKF provides an advisor to the BNG on central banking
issues and an advisor to the HF for fiscal matters, although this latter advi-
sor has been heavily involved in the preparation of the first combined
operating/investment budget, for which local expertise does not exist.
23.     With the desire to implement planned stabilization and adjustment re-
forms, the Government has shown increasing interest in obtaining technical
assistance for economic planning and management rather than just for project-
related activities. This attitude stems from its recognition of unwise past
investment decisions, many taken without adequate weight being given to econo-
mic justification or financial feasibility. An intensified dialogue with the
I!F and the Bank prompted the Government to request support frola the Fund to
pr-pare the urgent measures required to carry out the Stabilization Program,
and the Bank has been asked to provide technical assistance to help formulate
comprehensive adjustment and recovery programs and their implementation.
Government is convinced of the pressing need for corrective economic and fi-
nancial policies, and is committed to implementing such policies. Its inten-
tion is to revitalize the key agricultural sector, diversify production and
increase exports. It recognizes that the measures taken in December 1983
(para. 14) represent only a first step in a longer process of structural re-
form without which economic recovery cannot take place. The President of the



-7-
Republic reiterated this conviction to Bank missions that visited the country
in February and July 1984 to discuss the economic recovery program, as well as
his Government's com-mitment to continue taking necessary and urgent actions.
The President is persoaally visiting the interior of the country explaining
the reform program to the people and eliciting their support. He has requested
Bank-financed technical and managerial expertise to support the execution of
adjustment and stabilization policies. The proposed project would provide this
expertise, although it is recognized that further technical assistance will in
all likelihood be required until the training of Guineans leads to the esta-
blishment of a fully competent local capability in this respect.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
24.     The proposed Technical Assistance Project was prepared by Bank Group
missions that visited Bissau in January and April 1983. Appraisal took place
in November and December, 1983 and February 1984. A summary is provided at the
begining of the report. Annex III contains supplementary project data, Annex
IV an implementation schedule, Annex V a list of documents available in the
project file, Annex VI a table containing project objectives and expected re-
sults, and Annex VII terms of reference agreed upon for the principal advisors
and the agricultural pricing study. There is no separate Staff Appraisal
Report. Negotiations were held in Lisbon, Portugal on August 13-14, 1984 with
a delegation headed by the Minister-Governor of the BNG.
Project Description
25.     The proposed project is intented to assist the Government to streng-
then the macro-economic management capability of key economic ministries, to
strengthen the operational capacity of other ministries, and to develop a
sound institutional framework in newly created ministries and agencies. It
would thus assist the Government in the formulation and implementation of the
economic recovery program which is being discussed with the Association. The
project would include approximately 500 man/months of resident advisors
(eight), short-term consultants, training, studies, equipment and materials,
as fol.lows:
a. senio'r advisors to the Office of the President, the Ninistry
of Economic Coordination, Planning and International Coopera-
tion, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of
Guinea-Bissau - the principal authorities responsible for
management of economic policy;
b. consultants to help strengthen the institutional capability
of government ministries in other critical sectors: commerce,
energy and industry, fisheries, and internal administration;
c. studies to assist the development and execution of key poli-
cies in support of stabilization and economic recovery: an
agricultural pricing policy study; a survey of selected state
enterprises; and other studies to be identified as the pro-
ject evolves;



-8-
d. traiming of counlterpart staff to iork with foreign advisors
and experts and replace them upon projec- completion; train-
ing programs for the varioUs ministries; and a program of
feelowships for graduate studies in economics and business
admn-ni stration;
e. ecuipment, materials, vehicles; and housing for use by resi-
dent advisors and consultants ezmployed under the project.
Resi dent Advizsrs
26.    Office of the President. In October 1983 the President of the Revolu-
tionary Council tocok over the chairmanship of the Council of Economic Minis-
ters with the aim of closely monitoring the implementation of the Stabiliza-
tion Program. Urtil the formation of the new Cabinet on July 16, 1984, the
President's Offtce had a highly qualified Gutnean eccnomic advisor who devoted
part c. his time to workting with the then State Secretary for Planning, and
who cLordinated all technical advLsory services to the President. This ad-
viser has now been appoiated State Secretary for International CooperatLon
within the new Mintstry of Economic Coordination, Planning and International
Cooperation. Therefore responsibility for economic matters in the Office of
the President iS currently in the hands of two junior Cuinean economists. The
President wishes to recruit a Seaior Advisor specializing in financial and
zonetary matters, and also available for advisory services in general develop-
ment poLicy and international economic affairs. The candidate should be an
experienced economist who woul1 work with the Guinean economists to provide
the ?resident's Office with comprehensive policy advice to enable close moni-
toring of the stabilizatilon and development programs. Terms of reference for
the Advisor have been agreed upon and recruitment has begun.
27.    Aintstry of Ecoaomic Coordination, Planning and International Coopera-
tion (REPCI). The project includes three advisors to this new Ministry Lfor-
merly the St'ate Secretariat of Planning), which now has principal responsibil-
ity for formulation and coordination of economic policy. One advisor will
assist the Minister in programming external aid, preparing annual reports on
foreign assistance to the country, and maintaining a technical bureau for aid
coordination and management. A second Advisor -will assist in the annual re-
view of the Four-Year Plan, and the preparation of individual yearly plans for
1984-1986. In close liaison with the techaical ministries, the advisor will
also coordinate the programming of sectoral investments aind monLtor the finan-
cial and physical execution of projects included in the Four-Year Plan. Can-
didates for both these pesitions have been selected under suitable terms of
reference.
28.     A third Advisor is now necessary to strengthen the Ministry's capa-
bilities in economic policy formulation. This responsibility rested with the
Ministry of Planning until the May 1982 governmental reorganization when it
was transferred to the then-created Xinistry of Economy and Finance. However,
this transfer of responsibility was in name only, as the Ministry of Economy
and Finance was unable to restructure its activities to incorporate functions



-9-
in the economic sector.  On the other hand, the State Secretary of Planning
continued to develop a small group of Guineans who performed economic studies
and project evaluation. 'With the reaffirmation of MEPCI s priacy in economic
matters, there is evident need to strengthen this capability.  The Minister
has therefore requested an additional Advisor to help organize an Economic
Policy and St-udies Bureau. This unit would perform general economic studies,
prepare terms of reference for project studies in liaison with sectoral minis-
tries, monitor the studies over their various stages, wid supervise the review
of final studies. Terms of reference for this position will be finalized
during a forthcoming visit of the Minister to Washington in early September
1984.
29.     Ministry of Finance (HF). On July 16, 1984, with the formation of a
new Government, the Ministry of Economy and Finance reverted to linistry of
Finance, with economic policy responsibility shifting back to MEPCI, and MF
retaining responsibilitj for financial and fiscal affairs. The Portuguese
Mi.nistry of Economy and Planning is implementing a project for restructuring
KF, based on a draft organic-law, for which partial financing has been made
available by the Netherlands. IDA has been requested to complement this
financing to cover: (a) an Advisor responsible for setting up a Studies
Bureau; Cb) an Advisor to assist in creating a Bureau for Support to and
Winancial Control of State Eaterprises; (c) an Advisor on legal matters; and
(d) the construction and equipping of a small training and documentation cen-
ter. The first Advisor will be responsible for financial aspects of the Sta-
bilization Program including projections of public sector financial resources,
availabilities, needs and management, and the preparation of national accounts
and government budgets. The second Advisor will help to prepare guidelines for
the financial operation of state enterprises, including a system for approval
of annual budgets, fiscal control of their operations, and audits.  The Ad-
visor for the Studies Bureau and the Legal Advisor, who are well qualifted and
whose conditions of employment are satisfactory, have been selected. Terms of
reference will be prepared for the Advisor on State Enterprises, based on the
findings of the state enterprise study included in the project (para. 40). He
will replace the Legal Advisor upon termination of the latter's one-year con-
tract. Guinean counterparts have been recruited and are worktng with and be-
ing trained by the Legal and Studies Bureau Advisors.
30.     National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BNG). Under its new organic law, the
BNG wil'. function as a central bank, commercial bank and development bank, a
frequent situation in newly independent countries where the lack of manpower
prevents separation of these functions. The project includes a Technical Advi-
sor to the Governor for three years to assist in structuring the BNG's new
developmert banking activities. The IEF provides an advisor on central bank-
ing. The project also includes short-term studies and consultants services to
help BNG develop its new savings program, and to install and supervise the
operation of needed banking equipment and materials. Terms of reference have
been agreed upon for the Development Banking Advisor and recruitment is
underway. The project will also finance the incumbent Legal Advisor, pre-
viously financed by Portuguese assistance which is no tonger available.



-10-
Short-term Consultants
31.     Ministry of Natural Resources and Industry (IMRNI). This Hinistry was
also created in July 1934 and resulted from the fusion of the former Ministry
of Energy and Industry and the Rinistry of Natural Resources. An Energy
Assessment performed by the UNDP/WB Cooperative Program in noveaber 1983 con-
firmed that the two General Directorates of Industry and Energy, as well as
the Studies, Projects and Planning Bureau (GEP), which reports directly to the
Minister, are ill-equipped t- formulate and execute the country's industrial
and energy policies as set forth in the Development Plan. What little assist-
ance has been provided to MUNI has come mainly from SIDA and UNDP, both of
which are reducing their allocations to the country, and has been in the form
of technical staff to manage or participate in the implementation of specific
projects. The Ministry is responsible for some 25 state and mixed enterprises
of increasing importance to the country's development efforts, particularly
once economic recovery is underway. What is needed is a dLagnostic survey of
the state enterprises (Para. 40), to determine those that should be closed and
those that should be strengthened and made viable. This survey would be per-
formed in close liaison with the GEP and the two Directorates. The project
includes assistance to strengthen the GEP which is charged with providing
technical support to the various directorates of the Ministry. Consultants,
equipment and materials would be furnished over a three-year period at an
estimated cost of $600,000, including a consultant in forestry, a sector which
is potentially important for export expansion. Terms of reverence for the
various consultants and technicians have been agreed upon with the Ministry.
A proposal for a Data Processing and Documentation Center has been prepared by
a Portuguese consulting firm and is being considered for incLusion in the pro-
ject.  Assistance to the General Directorate for Industry and the General
Directorate for Energy would be identified during the course of project imple-
rientation.
32.     State Secretariat, Office of the President  This newly-created agency
will perform, among other things, certain functions formerly entrusted to the
Ministry of Internal Administration (MAI), which has been abolished.  These
included responsibility for coordinating local and regional government activi-
ties; managing the civil service and implementing human resource policies
(including training) for the public administration as a whole; and implement-
ing labor policy, collecting labor statistics, supervisiag worker protection
and benefit systems, and regulating and mediating labor-management relations.
33.     At appraisal the project included consultant services and short-term
studies to assist hAI in the folloi-ing activities: 1) revision of the civil
service code; 2) formulation of complementary legislation to the receatly
rewritten labor code; 3) design and implementation of training programs for
KAI personnel; and 4) institution of improved management procedures and orga-
nizational structures within the Ministry.
34.     The project will provide technical assistance to the State Secretariat
to help it define and execute responsibilities inherited from MAT, namely (1)
and (2) above, as well as to design and implement training programs for its
staff which will be involved in these matters.



- 11-
35.     Contacts were made by the former MAI with the National Institute for
Public Administration in Portugal to provide courses for high-level management
in Bissau, either directly or through the auspices of the Technical Institute
for Professional Training. Discussions were also held with the General Direc-
torate of Employment and Training of the Secretariat of Public Administration
in the Portuguese Administration Reform Ministry for mid-level and clerical
trainiag programs. The State Secretariat witl review the proposals and select
appropriate institutions and curricula during the course of the project.
36.     Other Ministries. The project includes $1.0 million unallocated that
would finance technical assistance which may be identified as the project pro-
gresses.  The Fisheries Secretariat of the Ministry of State for Rural Devel-
opment and Fisheries has submitted two proposals to IDA, one prepared by FAO,
requesting consultant's to the Secretariat in marine biology, popualation dynam-
ics, fisheries technology, processing and markceting, etc. and the other for
assistance in controlling the country's extended economic zone and prepara-
tion, negotiation and management of fishing licenses. Under PPF financing, a
consultant from the Iastitute for Marine Studies of the University of Washing-
ton (Seattle) visited Bissau in July 1984 and reviewed the fishing license
agreement with the Soviet Union.  Based on the results of his findings, the
Secretariat has requested further assistance in negotiating a proposed new
Ulcensing agreement prepared by the consultant, who has also been invited to
identify further needs for restructuring the Secretariat and providing it with
the necessary expertise to effectively control activities in the sector. The
project will finance these additional advisory services, given the importance
of the sector as a scurce of foreign exchange.
37.     A crucial aspect of economic recovery is the restructuring of the mar-
keting and distribution system of agricultural products, currently in the
hands of two state enterprises, Armazens do Povo and SOCOMIT. The EEC has
financed studies coacerning the restructuring of the commercial sector and the
Government has begun to implement the recommendations of these studies, namely
by beginning to sell and/or transfer some of the stores of the trading compa-
nies to private merchants. The Association supports the Goverament's policies
in the sector and is satisfied with the efforts made to date to implement
needed reforms. However, the Ministry lacks the basic infrastructure required
to effectively control this restructuring of the commercial system as well as
the marketing of agricultural products - telex access to commodity markets,
market analysis capability, trained staff, etc. Project funds would be made
available ti perform studies relating to the restructuring of the Ministry,
and the Government will prepare terms of reference in this respect once the
final report of the latest EEC-financed mission is approved later this year.
Studies
38.     The project includes studies in various areas of economic activity
aimed at definina policy objectives and priorities and enabling the Government
to implement the stabilization and economic recovery programs, as well as to
identify needs for future technical assistance. Among these studies, two have
already been identified:



-12-
39.     Study on Agrtcultural Pricing Policy. As part of the Government's
primary objective of revitaltztng the agricultural sector, a study will be
commissioned to develop alternatives to the existing system of prices for
agricultural products in order to determlne an effective means of providing
Incentives to farmers for increased production. The study will be performed by
consultants in close liaison with the IDA and the IMF. Terms of Reference were
drawn up durtng IDA's Sector Rev-ew mission of February-March 1984 and pro-
posals have been submitted by four consuting firms (U.S., Fraace, Canada and
Portugal). The study will be a key element in the Government's economtc
recovery program to complement measures already taken, and is expected to
begtn in October 1984. Twenty man-months of consultants services are esttmated
for the study.
40.     State Enterprise Study. The Government wishes to initiate a study of
certain vital enterprises among the 30 existing ones (the power utility, the
transport company, SOCOTRAM (the lumber producing unit), DICOL (the fuel
distribution agency), etc.) in order to identitfy those that are not viable and
should be closed down , those that should remain in the public sector and be
strengthened, and those that should be privatized. The study would lead to
recommendations for further action which the Government will agree to carry
out. Terms of reference will be prepared by the Government and, after agree-
ment with the Association, invitations for proposals will be sent to three or
four consulting firms that have proven experience in this type of study. The
study would analyze the environment in which the state enterprises operate
(institutions, controls, policies, etc.), the sub-sector policies as they
affect the state enterprises, and the performance of individual enterprises.
It is possible that the diagnosis might serve to identify a second technical
assistance project specifically geared to support a long-term program for
rehabilitation or liquidation of certain enterprises. Existing staff of MRNI's
Sldies, Projects and Planning Bureau, who have already performed analyses of
six enterprises, as well as from MEPCI and HF, wtll participate tn the study
which is estimated to require 40 man-months of consultant services.
Training
41.     All the above components include a considerable measure of tratning
for local counterpart staff. A long-term traintng program (three years) for
BNG staff in banking acttvities will also be included in the project, and con-
tacts in this regard have already been made with the Bank of Portugal and the
Portuguese Bankers Association. MEPCI is negotiating with the Getulio Vargas
Foundation (Brazil) for a three-year program to train regional planners and a
two year program to tratn planning agents in the various M4inistries. It has
hired CESO, an experienced Portuguese ftrm that has offered courses in plan-
ning in Bissau as well as in Cape Verde, to provide a two-year course for
planning agents in the vartous ministries. Required equipment and materials
for training activities in Bissau would also be included in the project. The
State Secretariat Office of the President would provide short-term training to
its staff in public and regional administration, labor law and human resource
management (para. 35). The Ministry of Finance would establish a Training and
Documentation Center where courses would be offered for staff of XF and other
ministries. Existing space tn the HF's Customs Warehouse would be remodelled
to house the Center, at an estimated cost of $50,000 equivalent, and instruc-



-13-
tional equipment and materials estimated to cost an additional $50,000 would
be provided. Training programs would be designed by and coordinated through
the Technical Institute for Professional Training in Bissau. All training
activities under the project would be closely monitored by the project manage-
ment unit (para. 43).
42.    Aside from the training activities related to the specific components
mentioned above, the project would include a program of fellowships under
which candidates for advanced degrees in economics, financial analysis, busi-
ness administration and other areas of importance to the country, will be sent
abroad. The objective would be to train the future makers of economic policy
in Guinea-Bissau. The program would provide for the training of approximately
15 Guineans over a four-year period. A commission will be created to deter-
mine the fields of specialization to be included in the Program and to select
candidates. It will consist of representatives from the Office of the
President, the Ministry of Education, IEPCI and the BNG. An executing agency
with experience in this type of program will be sought. A first group of
candidates would be chosen for the Fall 1985 school term and provision would
be made for language training where necessary.
Project Implementatton
43.    Given the various minitaries involved in the project, the difficulties
deriving from logistical conditions in Guinea-Bissau, and the constraints on
IDA staff for project coordination and supervision, it is essential that the
project recruit an experienced management capability as soon as possible. This
will be needed to ensure that no future sub-project involves duplication of
efforts between ministries or with other sources of technical assistance, that
counterpart staff is actively involved in project execution, and that adequate
logistical support Is provided to expatriate advisors. The management unit
would be responsible for recruitment of advisors and consultants, provision of
housing for recruited experts and liaison with IDA. It would monitor and
provide logistic support to the various training activities included in the
project. It would also assist the BNG, which will have overall responsib'Iity
for project execution. The BNG has already designated appropriate staff to
work with the project management team (Section 3.01 (b) of draft Development
Credit Agreement.
44.     Project management would be performed over a four-year period by a
specialized institution (university, foundation, or consulting firm) responsi-
ble for all aspects of the project. Invitations to submit proposals for this
service have been requested by the BNG from three consulting firms (France,
West Germany, Portugal) and one foundation (Brazil). Specialized UN agencies
with experience in this type of activtty will also be consulted. The recruit-
ment of the project management will be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.     Responsibility for execution of each part of the project would rest
with the Ministry concerned. Guinean counterparts with qualifications accept-
able to the Association would be employed to work closely with the resident
experts and consultants (Section 3.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
The cost of office equipment, materials and vehicles, and construction of



-14-
housing are included in the project. Designs for building four detached houses
and 10 duplex units for permanent advisors and short-term consultants have
been prepared by the General Directorate of Urbanisa of the Kinistry of Social
Equipment (fused from the former Minis tries of Transport and Public Works).
At Government request, IDA has provided a PPF advance to (a) begin construc-
tion of houses; (b) allow recruitment to proceed by providing initial payment
of salaries of resident specialists and short-term consultants; and (d) pur-
chase, operate and maintain vehicles.
Project Costs and Financing
46.    The cost of the project, including taxes, is estimated at US$6.5
million equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of $5.4 million.
The proposed IDA contribution of SDR 6.0 (USS 6.0 million) would cover the
entire foreign cost element and 55% of local costs. IDA financing of this
proportion of local costs is justified by the Government's difficult financial
situation. The Government would contribute $0.5 million equivalent in the form
of base salaries for counterparts, some office space, communications costs,
and taxes on imported construction materials and salaries. Contingencies of
about 17 percent have been included based on expected annual international
inflation rates of about 8.0 percent in 1985 and 9.0 percent in subsequent
years.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.    The resident advisors and short-term consultants would be recruited
internationally. The selection, qualifications, experience and terms of em-
ployment for all resident experts and consultants would be subject to approval
by the Association (Sections 3.02 (a) and (b) of draft Development Credit
Agreement). Initially, the contracts for the advisors would be for one or two
year periods, with the understanding that they would be extended if all par-
ties are satisfied after the initial period. The entire cost of the resident
experts would be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. Separate accounts
would be maintained by the Goverment for all project activities and would be
audited each year by auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01 of
draft Development Credit Agreement). Purchase of equipment and office supplies
($140,000) would be under local procedures acceptable to the Association. To
the extent practicable, vehicles would be procured by international competi-
tive bidding ($250,000). Local construction firms will be invited to tender
for construction of housing and other building activities ($550,000).
48.    Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against:
a. 100% of the total cost of the long-term advisors, short-term
consultants, studies, training and fellowships;
b. 100% of the foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures for
construction of housing units and other civil works;
c. 100% of the foreign cost or 75% of the local cost of office equip-
ment and supplies and vehicles;
d. 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of local expenditures for
junior economists, secretarial and support staff;
e. Amounts due to refinance the PPF Advance.



-15-
49.     All disbursements from the Credit Account would be fully documented
except for salaries of local staff which would be disbursed against statements
of expenditures certified by the Project Nanagement. Supporting documentation
would be retained by the Borrower and made available for review by IDA super-
vision mission. The disbursement schedule divergest slightly from the re-
gional profile for Technical Assistance Projects as recruitment of experts and
consultants began in FY84 under the PPF advance, and since certain project
expenditures, i.e., housing construction and recruitment of some advisors,
will begin during the first year of implementation. It is expected that
disbursements against the credit account will be completed some 2 years ahead
of profile estimates.
Benefits and Risks
50.    The benefits that would accrue to Guinea-Bissau under the proposed
Technical Assistance Project would be an increased capacity to conceive and
implement sound, comprehensive, and consistent macro-economic policies and to
pursue adjustnent policies in crucial areas such as rural development, state
enterprise management and public investment programming. In addition, the
project would strengthen the Government's capability to implement these poli-
cies and lead to a firmer institutional framework within which development can
be pursued. (See Annex VI.) The main risks of the project derive from the dif-
fLiculties in finding expatriate personnel who are sufficiently qualified to
gain aud retain the confidence of the Government, without which their effec-
tiveness wold be greatly reduced. This risk is heightened by the difficult
living and woreing conditions that prevail in Guinea-Bissau. The other major
risk is that the project objectives may not be fully met due to the country's
inability to absorb technical assistance, stemming from the acute lack of
qualified counterparts. However, the Government's awareness of the need for
technical ass.stance and its commitment to economic adjustment and stabiliza-
tion is reflected in its request for this project. It has also provided
assurances that every effort will be made to assign Guineans currently
returning from overseas training to work as counterparts to the expatriate
advisors.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Guinea-
Bissau and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section t(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
52.     Features of the draft Agreement of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness would be that
the Project Management be recruited (para. 43 and Section 5.01 of draft
Developuent Credit Agreement).
53.     I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-16-
PART VI - RECOMM NDATION
54.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. V. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 17, 1984



-17-
T     a    AL t_  Aa I
CGMl-stSSMV            -SCzLg ISICAImlS DWAm SMn
CAlNEA-RISSAU        ._EPRC    _Ps cmTrn  A                               _
POST                     (POST nE  r ESTuAm) lb
GP         70!b RCIWT             LLS 1rI                 0LE ECIJ
is         17            ,,0!  0AFRAIC S. OF SAHARA    AFICA S. OF SLUM
A     CS _am  SQ- 1t)
TOTAL                               36.1        36.1       36.1
AlTCULRM                           15.4        15.6        15.7
WPa CAIT  Om)                             .          .       190.0              254.6                   1147.9
a         _ rIo   actor
(CRLOCRAJS OF COAL  IrCVILENT       12.0         .-        53.0               79.3                    724.2
ftPay.m     wm  smsssK
POFULAT0WE.MlID-EAR (TUSANDS)      520.0          .       7)00
CRAS  POPULATION a or TOTAL)        13.6       18.1        24.4               195                     28.5
FPOP(2.ATION PRtWECIONS
POHLATIO# Is WAD 20e0 (NUt)                               1.2                 -
STATIONARt POPULATION  (ILt)                              4.1
TEAR STATIONARY POP. REACH                              155
POPULAT10pi CEITY
PER SQ. r.                        14.4                   21.4              2t$                       56.5
PM Sq. Ut. ACD!. LAND            33.6                    49.4              94.1                     131.8
POPLAflOII AC STEIC E CZ)
0-14 IRS                         36.9           .       39.7               4 5.0                    *59
15-64 YIRS                       5t            .         56.1              52.1                      51.2
65 AND AIM                         3.7                    4.2                2.9                      2.8
POPULATION  tC    RAT  CZ)
-luriv                             0.2         ..          .                 2.4                      2.8
*RNS                               3.2         ..          ..                6.2                      5.3
CRIDE tRTII RAT! (PER TROIS)        50.1       S0.1        50.2               47.9                     47.6
CIRE DFATR RATE (PER 11DOS)         38.5       33.9        2J.5               19.2                     *5.2
CROSS IREPODUCTtOR RATE              3.2         3.2        3.2                3.2                      3.2
FAImT PLASuIC
ACCPTOS. A51.A1 (TROTS)
TUSERS (: OF CARRED W      *                                                                            -
FOOD AMNTITIOl
lUDEX OF FOO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      121.0      103.0        67.0               37.3                     95.7
0R CAPITA suT1 or
CALORIS (OF 3r JUIREU T)          60.0          .        7 .0               88-0                     97.1
PUOtEtMS (CAMIS PR OAT)          29.0          ..        35.0              51.2                      51.0
OF WN31CR AKMUL AND PILSE         7.0          ..        6.0t.             1J1                      17.2
CILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         43.7        37.9        31.6              25.7                      23.6
LIFe ERCcT. AT BIRTH (eS )          26.6        32.0       37.3               47.4                     51.9
INFANT FORT. RAT! (PER L7 u)      167.8       161.1       246.3             126.5                     217.6
ACCESS TO SAFCE DATER (!POP)
ToTAL                                                    I1.Old            26.7                      25.4
URAI                                ..         ..        20.07;i            56.8                     70.5
RtL                                 ..         ..         a.OT              18.3                     12.3
ACCESS TO ESCtRTA DISPOSAL
(t OF POPCLATIOR)
TaL                                 ..         ..          ..               28.1
URAW                                ..         ..          ..              65.7
U                                   ..         ..          ..               21.9
POPULATIOPE  PilStICtAN          20600.0        * -  90.0                  27620.f                  12181-.
PoPp PERSI w u .e .-.*-                                  2260.0             3456.2                   2292.0
POP.  R HOSPITA. UD
TOVU                         -  SCO.0           ..      600.0             1180.7                   1075.4
UARS                                ..         ..          ..              360.f                    402.3
RAL                                                                       3177.!                   3026.7
ADaSSIONS PER DS0 AL LC .M.                    17.2        20.5
-OISD
AW:ERC SIZE OF ROUSEO
TOTAL                               ..         ..         6.1
CRUR                                ..         ..         5.7
0R3gL                               ..         ..         6.6
AWERAC YO. OF PERSuONSfRoOt
RURAn                              ..          ..
303g.                               ..         ..          .                   ..
ACCets  TO  WCT. (I OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAtL                                                    5.0
URNS                                ..          ..        5.0
PiL                                 ..         ..



-18-
T A R L E  JA                                      PACE 2
CUIKEA-8USSAU          - SOCIAL ISDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA-EISSAD                        REFEREICE QOPS (IgITE  A%ERACES) /a
MOST                     (MOST RECENL ESTMATE) lb
1%/b   1970r RECEYT   bLOL INC2E                          MIDDLE ICCE
t460-     1970- EsTrLiTEt         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
ADJSbED EXRO(RLENT RATIOS
PRIfLART:  TOTAL                  75.0        44_0        95.0               63.9                     97.2
MALE                   35-0        61.0       130.0               73.6                    103.1
FD4ALR                 IS.0        27T0        59.0               51.6                     88.5
SECONDARY: TOTSL                   3.0         9.0         8.0               12.5                     17.2
MALE                    3.0        11.0        13.0               16.7                     23.5
FONALE                  2.0         6.0         3.0                8.1                     14.2
VOCArloNAL (I OF SECONDARY)         53.3        13.2         3.8                7.3                      5.2
PDPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRLWARr                           39.0        45.0        25.0              46.4                      42.9
SECONDARY                         13.0        18.0        12.0/f             25.1                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE ft)              4.91'       7.0        18.9               36.5                     37.1
a.rsmnla
PASSENGER CARS/ITICsA.D POP            .          .           .                3.3                      I8.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/TPOUSAND FOP         3.5 s,                 32.3              45.3                      97.8
TV RECEIVERSITHOUSASD POP             ..          ..         -.                 2.2                     18.4
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INrTERESrT) CIRCULATION
PER rH(WSA.E POPULA,IO             1t.4          ..         7.9               4.7                      18.2
CrnDtA ACUAL ATTENDA.CcECAPITA       0.1                       -                1.0                      0.6
LAMPOMM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUS)          17n-.           -       228n .0
FERIALE (PERCENT)                  3.2           -         3.9              34-5                      36.1
ARICULTURE (ERCFNaT)              91.0          ,,        83.0               76.9                     56.8
IRDUSTRY (rERCENT)                 4.0                     6.0               9.8                      17.5
PARTICIRATIMO RATE (PERCENT)
rOrTAL                            12.6           -        28.9              40.9                      37.0
MALE                              63.5          .        57.6               53.0                     47.1
FMALE                              2.1                     2.2              28.9                      27.0
ECWIrIC DEPENDEICCY RATIO            1.2                     1.5                1.2                      1.3
DKMHZ DISTRIRCTZOU
PERCECr OF PRIVATt: INCME
RECEIVED Sr
H ICIEST 5? OF HOUSEHOLDS
HICHEST 2a: OF HOUSEHCLDS           ..
LOWEST 2r OF HOUSEHWLDS                         ..
L(RTST 40: OF HOL'SEHOLDS           ..
lOVERl TAN= GROUPS
ESTIMATED AE50L TE POVERTY I SCIE
LEVEM (URS PER CAPITA)
URRAN                               ..          ..          ..              165.9                     534.2
RMAL                                                                        87.4                     255.9
EsrTIATED RELATtIrE POVERTY I!OGtE
LEvE  (SS PER CAPITA)
UREM                                ..          ..          ..              10.8                     491.5
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..              64.6                     188.1
ESTDIATED POP. AELOW ARSGUTE
POVERTY INC1(W LEVEL. ()
URRA¶                                                                        p 5
RURAL                               --          ''          ''              69.0
NOT AVAtLAILE
NOT APPLICAILE
N0 T E S
/s The group averages for each Indicator are populatIon-weIghted arithletic mesns. Covermee of countries saomn the
Indicators depends on awslla%tlIty of data and Is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. -Dat for 146C- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: -Dat for 1970- between 1969 and
1971: and daot  for Nost Recent Esticate- between 1979 and 1901.
Ic  1977; Id 1978: /e 1962; /f 1Q75.
Ma 1983



in-I                                                                                                            'be siin-  fi    3-ee ta
A   t5a.   Ia1     A5id.a 9-  IeJs tat  s              Pi            -b
p- ~ ~~~~~~                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~ TLa-i *ataadflp .- p .1-. ..    e       tela   e        .
a-ta.- (aA. -5-  '3    A5 t a             i-.v;  -I-     . tals     t-sa-jaea Pn=                          *t..la-     al- t  tsut   .-Ipaae s. q   n. e -sa
sbei  Psq. -sittI  a3as  e J.-               teapaft,  PIa-i                           ItP ma    -, 4  I. ., J.a. --ICp9i A.    Wf-        I     -.es
1 aea s-la ease  s)a5P -S I~~t a-at  -'al-s- eat 5-eaai usa's    eaq       -.t5-  *-5.S-  ~ta Pi-           itaa .9      (sit 1  £a.a
*ttda as  si-n. a  au.a-e  5 p. P-atAaad -        e.  i-                        - tnSad.  niseA.q pants                             IIls53-a9  -tnf
- tJa  p.    i  - 1-tt9~  4151 575       tiid                                                                     M.sarCestp  paI-Oas-a C1sa. p-tl -I isit Ata   at
.-a  ~1 -    ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ IsT.. A-Ta p 1-s5css-   ¶t*5-a  - , 4 --ea-v*nt  aaSa    a
-s-bbSa~s.aw.a  .1   Testt-.- s-iS a6.p net. Peatta  last                                   P. tbs   's-.a-    b       Ts.ns'  ass1n.  -te  -ea  t
tetbt    cflI-  t.ilst fst   tt*t t-nm  sa-I zta-.-5   ti.*S    e  p.Sib:"tt  atit  'It-nc t aa                                                        --- a
- 5-a-  P. *  -i-t15'aas t-s   est-l;sisC  --eapbt.                                      .a    *i-95s  as   -t-s fe    - ,ame-i  e) s st-i   ---
'-i s-Ia    ateamt   taata   ap-ss-tpt- -- ii- tI '01)_                                                                               flt-
p  'a--s  Aat.Ap    t* .at ashLa   s.te so-i-sea             'ibl-a-it       asA5-as,.  -.a~~w            5-.5 5qP,It.LP-t
a-sin- :be~~~~~~~~ tis-nasa                                                         li-Wi-s~~~~~~~~~A
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Ie                               b  't-lil SI        --beC -t.-           T.-se  ej  91-.
.......  .1 P-                 P-11                                                                                           ;1-pj5.aie   Ili --t- - nta  as  t--  s'-i  *sn  .
a -  p. b  -  LI35955  ata-dt   V-  ap                                                         -MssaiS   SW-i  ut P -s p.   j'%-ses!ss19-s   le se
_T-  -d-                                               .~tet    -s   --.sse   -    -s t -A Ae P-Ts -s  5i.-P.aaasn.    w   ila    -i-
*   P-p.f a5    aiP-'i-n    -t5''Psna  asi  sa-ss--S(   .bl                                                       1-51       ean-Iess    Rta   -j,     t  a.et
5.st.atnla-d 15)5 ea peale 5~   smc  'aea inn-: a-- 16 ¶a-t                   as-15sna4se,. 3 Pt-sn   -sas-a.  --e-S-
.9o                 A.iItn5--*te   t-tb  p~p.taa    9=   Ltt-sa                 Ts-u.q  as .pt _a nti   Sqpsa.l.    saea 5C              s  -sseI
WesTa5As-   ~-55 itsA         -bp   .s-  nssailn,. l                                                        't1  SIt .  55P       Ii5_    II-  i5. 
9-9 :8 p-    -s*         I-e9   J- st--a-J                                             p      aIT  9-me IsSi-li-tsS  -  seq   j £  se-n. 0%  T-a-eata
p.s-   sttI .ts'a~d s.a   515's-e' P-Sop.-es '.   -~j~                                      -a   as -      *--~_8~2  -,ses5-       e.a   -alsa sIgnJ-i.'
It- PT10T -Anw  ~~~1_1 Alls  !--te
71.  ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    Is  e  s~b  t-.t .Ibbss*s.,aa   awa   9a.1i1 
--tI   K).Iss              .-t         :;a--I-. -p tl'ra .5-al'          'I-t.a-PAT 9-T.-a-
p. tb-Il  -ic-slP.. sft.-Ite  ibs9-ts'  T'af.-lni-pt-si-a'-   t.le-af                                            -qsi. PT      qit- -a99t5Pa    ba--
a-sT *'-ma-  %p55  -a.e 9       me1 st5e  a' 1 5mepat9- p.-    bT-,                  *l'.A tp'a- Pa-.' a-a..I .  11an-   aeps1  eaPP I-t9
pat'--sC -        me-s 'trss'~~-a-ad- Il-Is'  -S--      ,  5l                   - -   A5.; .-                          W.iI-ts   ts-sEci  waal'.5.5-
s.'iw'i'aI   Psss'As-ssaaslasaei'1i5s'   P-I                                            Tase, i-IC-1_t-1                                                            ti-la
-eat  tii~      i.eLeaei.A t.a-aSt  seaIn- M   -I -C  .a -tip-ss a..1 a0%b Is-a-(p-na   es    aa "W55A.tt -Ins
-s    abdta  ae  ai-I-d    s-seaa9b-sas*A5 esseb-                           a--t.     pe-t  -deas- iT. -4             it-itP s::  p--    eans
-at. aa,se-s)-it     eaal  bt si-se a--  SPl i   -al cais   PA)6
5 (lt   p. pa  t eetI sp9 I-W9.T   1-4 (ta-a.) a-Isw 5.iat  as                          .sa-p    i  s--a  5 P        -  s-   s--aa  s-te .t sif  eat sdo
'P1  tsp-tea                            t-btet  1t 'o -Oe  'It-ti  ----t*ISsd as-
-l pa-a   IbnItsIn-. psn   . titi   -ACa-sI'--5-ts                                                                  P-       'eI-T. 95  p. ..::.5 'Sl   .Ct
leIi4 9-a-s   apl-  eI.-isp       -A-                                          lst   -e-l-sd       --p   a-.t   -taAp   1A- -4
e-*lbate 4Is-It-T.e 1- 419C. I  pa    '        .AI'-- a-si.P-e..                                                             sP it -   a-I          ..t 'bill 'Si.
PTIP1.Wie   staSa1,tsts -Saa   4--  1seaW                                                            p-ipasisa. ea-sa
-A-  .-.   _.Sai.103   s                     -  sa   ta      ldCs--    t                                                               'A   s'i:  ttp  .p-jn    _
I.~l a-stt Aa.tati-a5  p Usd a   ra-      a .ab.e.a1'  ve-w -*asea s-tt.Isd_-T"%  a   - -Io
LA-a. t-a-0 a.P   pai. T-qfa   "         b  '.113  - pqaP-. aa-paa-b4 4 111                                                     -p a WT qt- t   atPs
S  t  595-iSIs s-El  s0  -  511  S  NidS s~-s --bet1,                       Aiints-t  b   a-a 1.5P.T- aw-n" I Ifla1.9  Lstsi 
tT-efl e.apiia  -ta-   Aita-l ?ei-ft"nml a.n-i--eaa11a,tad                        -an--Aida  pas-sea  j-ito  e.IasM -         . v"-i-  %C  Pi  setteino
't-s-Ss        --ss     -. ATn-s  fa-ti Pet s- 5~-p  l .P 1195 a      lTpa                      La-. a-.- -a:  "¶IA-tt-- SeI  s-1Ss-   -   -Wp% eals-tIS         i -asC
-tes-asee~ie  'itn   -a    .p.j   . .. -ts-ea     In                      bn  '     ae5-esb  I  abea Wal-si-a-a     fits
c.iS5its 651i  psia   t55g-s-    -lS                                    b,t



-20 -
aGTINRA-BISSAU                                       ANN8  I
Page 4
ECONOMIC IMDICATORS
GDoss DOKESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982                              ANBUAL GROWTH RATE (% current pricea)
USS Mill.                          1980              1981            1982
GDP at Maztet Prices       177.5        100.0                 1.2               6.3            4.9
Gross Domestic Inveatment  34.5          19.4                 17.5             10.7            0.0
Gross National Saving        -             -               -180.0                -               -
Current Account balance   31 .6         -17.8                 6.6              28.9           -6.0
Exports of Goods, NFS       14.6          8.2                 14.8             24.8            3.5
Imports of Gooda. IFS      56.5          31.8                  5.2             -6.6           -1.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added                   Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
USS million                  '000                       US$          %
Prlmry sector                     93.0         52.4          344.9          88          269.7       59.5
Secondary sector                  14.3          8.1           11.8           3       1,211.9       267.6
Services                          70.2         39.5           35.2           9       1,994.3       4403
Total/Average                  177.5        100.0         391.0          100         452.9       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
GP Mln.                                % of GDP
1979     1980     1981     1982            1979    1980    1981    1982
Current receipts               700.0    716.6    867.8   932.6             11.9    12.1   13.4    13.0
Current Expenditure           1210.4   1634.4   1812.5   2074.6            20.6    27.6   27.9      28.9
Current Surplus (Deficit .)  -510.0  -917.8  -944.7  -1142.0               -8.7  -15.5  -14.5    -15.9
lon-Budgetary Expenditures   1800.0  2828.0              2210.1            30.6    47.8             30.8
External Assistance (gross)  2538.6   2059.4             2062.1            43.1    35.0             28.8
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1979                1980                 1981              1982
Mill,on GP outstanding end period
Money Supply and Quasi--oney           1391 .0              2359.0             2010.6              2431.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector           1337.5                1886.0            3449.9              5008.6
Dank Credit to Private Sector           131.0                 85.1              166.7               199.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-money as % of GDP        23.6                  39.8              30.9                33.9
Coonsumer Price Index
(1976-100)                        140.6                221.0              265.2              33t.5
Annual Percentage Changes In:
Money Supply                           14.7                  69.5              15.2                2t.4
Consumer Price Index                   21 .2                57.2               20.0               25.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector            6.8                 41.0               82.9               45.2
Bank Credit to Privat^ Sector          54.0                 35.0               95.9                19.7
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average rates noted on the following page.



-21-
ANNEX I
Page 5
GUINEA-BISSAU
TRADE. PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL nLOwS
BALACE OF PAY1METS           1980    191£                                    MERCIIANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-81)
-(UiS Million)                                               USS Kin.A
Exporte of Goods, IFS        11.3      14.1   14.6                       Groun.autas             3.9          30.2
Importa of Goods, IFS        61.1      57.1   56.5                       Pinh aznd Shrimp        3.9          30.2
Resource Cap (Deficit- -)  -49.8    -43.0  -41.9                         Palm Kernels            2.6          20.2
Logo and Sawn Timber   0.6            4.7
let Investment Income                                                    All Other Products      19           14.7
and Net transfers           7.9      13.2   10.3                                 TOTAL        12.9         10W.O
Balance on Current Account -41.9    -29.5  -31.6
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 1982
US$ mlit
Capital Grants               11.9      26.0    9.3
Net IILT Borrowing           13.9        -       -                       Public Debt (Disbursed, imcl. Guaranteed
Disbursements              16.8        -       -                       Non-Guaranteed Prilate Debt
Amortization               -2.9        -       -                       Total Outstanding and Disbursed             124.5
Other Capital (net)           1.1     -5.2       -                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR DECEMB  1982 aS
Other Items n.e.l.           18.4        -       -
Increase in Reserves        -7.6         -       -                       Public Debt, Incl. guranteed
Non-Cuaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed              21.9
Gross Reserves (end year)    12-5
Net Reserves (end year)       7.2       0.2    15.3
Fuel and Related Nateriala                                              lEND/IDA LENDING. MARCH 31  1954 (Iillion USS):
Imports of Petroleum       10.8       8.8    11.2
Exports of Petroleum         -         -       -                                                    INRD         IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed    0.0         25.82
Undiaburaed                  0.0         27.08
Outstanding Including
Ulndisbursed             0.0         52.9
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Annual Average
(dB Pesos per USS)
1978                                   34.04
1979                                   34.06
1980                                   33.81
1981                                   38.44
1982                                    40.4
.. not available
a/ Interest and repaments dlvided by commodities exports.



-22-
Annex II
G.1T7JINE-BISSAU
TECHCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Statenent of IDA Credits
(as of Narch 31, 1984)
Cred:Lt lo. Year    Borrower         Parjpose              Amount'/    bursed2/
(USS N  1  uiozs)
(les cancellations)
878-s     1979     Guinea-Bissau    Roads 1                 9.0          0.22
1095-GUB   198      Git-ssam    Petrolem
Exploration I          6.8          0.64
1344-B   1983       Gainea-Bissam    Petroleum
Exploration II        13.t          2.37
1392-GB   1983      Guinea-BLssau    BLssu Port             16.0         15.85
1473-GUB/' 1984     Guinea-Bissau    Roads II                8.O4/       8.00
Total                                  52.9         27.08
of which has been repad                  -
Total now held by IDA                  52.9
Total nndi bursed                                   27.08
I/ Amount IDA 6 Credits computed at the rate on the approval date.
2/ Amount IDA 6 Credits computed at the Narch 31, 1984 rate of
$1.0642=1 SDR
3/ Not yet effective.
4/  Including the $4.0 milion Special Fund Credit SF8-GUB
The statms of the projects listed above :s described in a separate report on
aU Bank/IDA projects in execution. This report is updated twice yearly and is
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 3t of each year.



-23-
ANNEK III
Page 1
GUINEA-BISSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplemenltry Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a.    Time taken to prepare the project: 12 months
b.    Appraisal mission: November, December 1983; February 10984
c.    Negotiations completed: August 1984
d.    Credit effectiveness planned: December 1984
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action
1'    IDA assistance in recrutting resident experts prior to
hiring of project management organization; and
2. ' IDA's close monitoring of resident experts' and consultants'
activities to help assure effective utilization of their
services.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
a.    assign starf in the BNG to ensure the overaU  responsIbility
for the project and lialse with project management;
b.    provide assurances that counterpart staff will be recruited
to work with the foreign experts hired under the project.
Special Condition of Effectiveness:
The Project Management will have been recruited (para. 43
and Section 5.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).



CUM-BISSUI
FM T@UCAL AfWWe    W
ijujiu JWIBUNTTIOI BWJI  i/
Year                                 1951                                   Nwn                                                     ! /D3
*tiu                        123456' 891O              1 213245678:9TO 1112    123-4567891 1112     123456789101112    123456789101112
Adlmore
orf.o ot Vw Prenlrut
IV   (ljwto Poiq~)_.
1WI jP1m Pze,im4
lPSt lbhrel Aid)                             ___
-K   (Jfipg  AdLo )            __           _ _    _    _     _    _    _     _
Oiu_tant 
Mu                           g                          _ _  _._       _   _  _      _  _      _      _  __-_
71nwsL'. SaoetarIAt
kbl ma4mi Pu.
auto EXts  --
Otmr
AqLput itl
Hamb ad otewr_
L  ftrSt-tn CAlAut$ v11 bs morti  wor4  to up3df  orlteira,
ar m tidrs &WI  pmwJet   emi



-25-
ACE V
Documents Available in Project File
Proposal for the Quantitative and QuaLitative Planning, Training and
Utilization of Human Resources in Guinea-Bissau (Working Document)
Report on Public Administration Component of Proposed Technical
Assistance Project for Guinea-Bissau (World Bank)
Proposal for Technical Assistance to Ministry of Internal Administra-
tion, Civil Service and Labor of Guinea-Bissau
Training Course for Auxiliary Planning Agents, prepared by CESO,
Portugal for XEPCI
Summary proposal for a training program for planning agents in Guinea-
Bissau, (MEPCI), prepared by Getulio Vargas Foundation, Brazil
Training Program for Accountants (MEPCI), prepared by SNEDE, Portugal
Draft Training Program 1984/1986 for National Bank of Guinea-Bissau,
prepared by staff of BNG
Proposal for construction of housing units for T. A. resident experts
and short-term consultants (MOPCi, General Directorate for Urban
Development)
Proposal for remodelling and new construction of Ministry of Internaul
Administration, Civil Service and Labor (MOPCU, General Directorate
for Urban Development)
Proposal for remodelling of Customs Building offices for REF Training
and Documentation Center (KOPCU, General Directoral for Urban Develop-
ment).
Draft Terms of Reference for assistance to Bureau of Studies, Projects
and Planning (GEP) of Ministry of Natural Resources and Industry
(NKIl)
Proposal for Data Processing and Documentation Center in MRNI*s GEP,
prepared by PARTEX, Portugal.



-26-
ANIE VI
Page 1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED RESULTS
Man/         Expected
Objectives           Inputs            Years         Results                    By
Strengthen the eco-    Senior Economic     3       Effective monitoring         July 1987
nomic and financial   Advisor                      and control of national
expertise of the                                   economic reform program
Office of the
President
Provide the  inis try   Advisor            3        Creation of Studies         July 1987
of Finance with                                    Bureau
expertise in Financial
Policy Matters                                     Projection of Public
Sector resources, needs,
avallabilities, preparation
of Governmaent budgets,
national accounts.
Provide Ministry of   Advisor              2        Creation of unit for        July 1988
Finance with expertise                             support to state enter-
in support and finan-                              prises and effective
cial control of state                              financial management of
enterprises                                         their operations
Support BNG"s commer-  Technical Advisor  3        Effective operation          July 1987
cial and development                               of ENG's development
banking activities                                 banking activities
Short-term Consul-  1       Strengthening BiG's         July 1987
tants and studies           accounting capabilities
Putting into practice       July 1986
new policies for
savtngs accounts
Installation and            July 1988
operation of banking
equipment and materials
Legal Advisor       2       Legal application of        July 1987
organic law, prepara-
tion of legal-admintstra-
tive procedures for MIG.
Restructured Legal Services
Trained legal staff.



-27-
Support KEPCI's        Economic Advisor   3         Preparation of Economic      July 1988
capabilittes for                                    Policy, Coordinatton of
economic policy                                     Economic Policy with other
forzulation and                                     ministries, preparation of
preparation of                                      economic studies and pro-
economic studies                                    jects
Support MEPCI's        Technical Advisor   3        Preparation of annual        July 1988
planning and aid                                    plans, revision of
coordination capa-                                  first four-year plan,
bilities                                            preparation of second
four-year plan
Technical Advisor   3       Effective coordination       July 1988
and monitoriag of
foreign aid
Development of MRNI's  Forestry Advisor    2        Defined policy for           July 1986
Studies, Projects                                   forestry exploration
and Planning Bureau                                 and industrtalization
Junior Economists,  3       Established economic
Accountants                 capability for sectoral
studies, project policy
formulation and monitoring
Establish guldelines   Technical Studies   1        Defined scope of NAIls       July 19B6
for internal adminis-                               activities for State
tration (regional and                               Secretariat, Office of the
central) and civil                                  President. Trained staff in
service administration.                             Secretariat. Sound regional
administration capability.
Develcn an effective   Pricing Study    1.75        Defined policy to provide   July 1985
pricing policy for                                  incentives for increased
agricultural products                               production and recovery of
export output.
Define a sound policy  Survey of State   2.5        Closing down of unprofit-   July 1986
for management of      Enterprises                  able enterprises and re-
state enterprises                                   habilitation of viable
enterprises
Train economic         Program of Gra-      3       Creation of a cadre of       December 1988
policy-makers for      duate Fellow-                trained macro-economic
macro-economic         ships                        managers
management and
middle-level           Training Programs   ,        Creation of middle-          December 1988
technicians in various                              level technicians
ministries



-28-
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 18
REPUBIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SENIOR ECONOMIC ADVISOR/OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
TEM  OF REEEIICE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Senior Economic Advisor vii report directly to the President of
the Council of State. He will liaise with the Ministry of Econonic Coordina-
tion, Planning and International Cooperation, the Ninistry of Finance, the
National Bank of Guinea-Bissau and the Ninistry of Commerce and Tourism. He
will also work closely with the Guinean technical staff in the Office of the
President.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The main tasks of the Advisor will be to:
a.    Advise the President on the key elements for iplementation of the
Stabilization Program and the Four-Year Developlent Plan;
b.    Assist the Office of the President in a-alyzing and interpreting
economic development policies prepared by the key ministries of the
economic sector;
c.    Train his designated co-workers in the Office of the President, both
on the job and through formal instruction (if appropriate);
d.    Assist the Office of the President in preparing participations in
international economic fora and in bilateral and multilateral
negotiations.
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have:
(a)   A Ph.D. in Economics with extensive training in economic development
issues, economic planc'tg, and in financial and monetary policies.
(b)   At least fifteen years of practical experience, at technical and
policy levels, in economic development planning; substantial profes-
sional experience as a senior officer or advisor, including resi-
dence, in sub-Saharan Africa; and, preferably, experience with the
practices and procedures of the World Bank and other development
cooperation agencies and bilateral institutions.



-29-
ANNEX VII
Page 2 Of 18
(c)   Proven ability to coordinate and manage tasks and people to provide
training to co-workers and counterparts.
(d)   A pragmatic and realistic approach to development economics.
(e)   Fluency in written and oral Portuguese and Freach.
(g)   An ability to work closely and effectively with Bissau-Guineans and
with expatriate advisors and other officials ia his field.
The advisor should preferably be between the ages of 45 and 60. The
initial appointment will be for a period of one year, with the understanding
that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties are satisfied
with the services provided during the initial period. The contract might be
extended annually as appropriate, up to a total of four years. Tne successful
candidate would be expected to assume his duties within three months after
being notified of his selection.



-30-
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 18
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PLANNING AND PROGRAHMING ADVISOR/MEPCI
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
Within the Ministry of Economic Coordinaton, Planning and Interna-
tional CooperatioL (iEPCI), the Advisor will report directly to the Minister
and will work closel- with the State Secretary for International Cooperation.
He will liaise with tee planning offices of other ministries, and officials in
the Office of the President responsible for economic affairs.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The main taks of the Advisor will be to:
(a)   Assist in the revision of the 1983-1986 National Development Plan,
seeking its improvement through incorporation of additional informa-
tion obtained from financing sources, the deletion or inclusion of
investment projects, and the distribution of project expenditures in
each of the Plan years;
(b)   Prepare a system of investment programming and assist in the prepara-
tion of yearly plans for 1984-1986 in accordance with the on-going
revision of the Four-Year Plan.
(c)   Prepare a system for monitoring Plan execution which will provide a
measurement of stated and achieved go-'s, and coordination with
implementing agencies, and sources of financing;
(d)   Train designated co-workers, both on the job and through formal
instruction (if appropriate).
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have:
(a)   At least a Masters's degree in Economics, or equivalent, with
extensive training in economic development issues and in national
economic plannig.
(b)   At least five years practical experience, at technical and policy
levels, in economic development planning; professional development
experience, including, preferably, residence in sub-Saharan Africa;
and experience with the practices and procedures of the World Bank or



-31-
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 18
other development agencies and bilateral institutions.
(c)   Proven ability to coordinate and manage tasks and people and to
provide training to counterparts.
(d)   A pragmatic and realistic approach to development economics.
(e)   Fluency in written and oral Portuguese; French desirable.
(f)   An ability to work closely and effectively with Bissau-Guineans and
with expatriate advisors and other officials in his area.
The initial appointment will be for a period of one year, with the
understanding that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied with the services provided during the initial period. There-
after, the contract might be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total
of folir years.



-32-
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 18
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOREIGN AID ADVISOR/MEPCI
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
Within the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Planning and and Interna-
tional Cooperation, the Foreign Aid Advisor will report directly to the
Ninister, and will wore- clomely with the Planning Advisor and Ministry
staff. He will liaise with the Xtnistry of Finance and the National Bank of
Guinea-Bissau, and with officials in the Office of the President responsible
for economic affairs.
Princtpal Responsibtltties and Functions
The main tasks of the Advisor will be to:
(a) Assist the Directorate General for Planning in preparing a system for
coordinating monitoring external financing, including food aid, grant
aid and loans;
(b)   Assist the Directorate General for Planning tn establishing an
accounting system, by source of financing, so that at any time exist-
ing availabtlities and uses of funds can be known;
(c)   Preparing yearly balance sheets of external assistance and yearly
reports on foreign aid;
(d)   Assist in the creation of a technical unit to perform the above aid
coordination and management functions. Training of Guinean staff,
both on the job and through formal instruction (if appropriate).
Qualifications
The candtdate for this post should have:
(a)   At least an advanced degree tn Accounting or Economics, or equiva-
lent, with extensive training in financial analysis, national
economic planning and economic development issues.
(b)   At least ftve years of practical expertence, at technical and policy
levels, in public finance, accounting procedures and planning;
substantial professional experience, including, preferably, resi-
dence, in sub-Saharan Africa; and experience with the practices and



-33-
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 18
procedures of international and btlateral development agencies.
(c)   Proven abtltty to coordinate and manage tasks and people and to
provide training to counterparts.
(d)   Fluency in written and oral Portuguese; proficiency in French and
English desirable.
(e)   An ability to work closely and effectively with Bissau-Guineans and
with expatriate advisors and other officials in his area.
The intitial appointment will be for a period of one year, with the
understanding that the contract wtll be extended to tvo years if all parties
are satisfied with the services provided during the initial period. There-
after the contract might be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total of
three years.



-34-
ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 18
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ADVISOR/XINISTRY OF FINANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The advisor will report directly to the Minister of Finance, and will
work closely wtth the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Planning and Inter-
national Cooperation, the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau and the officials in
the Office of the President responsible for economic affairs.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The main tasks of the Advtsor will be to:
(a)   Create a Studies and Statistics Bureau to prepare economtc and
financial studies and short-term economic analyses;
(b)   Assist in preparing the Government's general budget, namely by
preparing the Annual Financial Plan in close coordination with the
National Development Plan;
(c)   Prepare analyses and studies required for the establishment of the
National Budget, including projections of public sector resources,
availabilities and needs;
(d)   Assist in the preparation of the National Accounts, and design and
coordinate the quarterly updating of current economic indicators;
(e)   Assist in recruitment and training of staff for the Studies Bureau;
(f)   Recommend the commissioning of special studies or the appointment of
consultants for specific work that cannot be undertaken by the staff
of the Studies Bureau itself.
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have:
(a)   An advanced degree in economics, or equivalent, with relevant
experience in the management of national economies.
(b)   Extensive training in economic development issues and in national
economic planning and budgeting.



-35-
ANNEX VII
Page 8 of 18
(c)   At least five years of practical experience, at technical and policy
levels, in econnmic development planning and budgeting; relevant
professional development experience, including residence, in sub-
Saharan African.
(d)   Proven ability to coordinate and manage tasks and people and to
provide training and advisory services.
(e)   A pragmatic and realistic approach to development issues.
(f)   Fluency in written and oral Portuguese; French and English desirable.
(g)   An ability to vork closely and effectively with Bissau-Guineans and
with expatriate advisors and other officials in his area.
The initial appointment will be for a period of one year, with the
understanding tha the contract will be extended to two years tf all parties
are sattsfied with the services provided during the initial period. There-
after, the contract might be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total
of four years.



-36-
ANNEX VII
Page  9 of t8
REPUBLIC OF GUIXIEA-BISSAU
TCECIHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LEGAL ADVISOR/MlENISMY OF FINANCE
TERMS OF =EFEREECE
Hierarchtcal Responsibility
The Legal Advisor will report directly to the Minister of Finance.
Principal Responsibtilites and Functions
The main tasks of the Advisor will be to:
(a)   Provide advisory and technical support in preparing Government
regulations relating to the Ministry of Finance in coordination with
relevant technical consultants;
(b) Reitew and establish juridical -admtnistrative procedures for the
Ministry;
Cc)  Analyze and review legal disposittons submitted to the Ministry for
opinion, proposing In each case adequate measures for action;
(d)  Analyze contracts, agreements, protocols and ittigation of a
financtal and ftscal nature, In cooperation with economic advisors,
and represent the Ministry on discussions of these documents after
submitting informative briefs to the MAister;
(e)  Advise the Minister conerning international legal and financial
Issues;
(f)   Organize and maintain current a system of information on legislation
In force In the country, as well as in these countries and inter-
national bodies with which Guinea-Bissau has important economic
relations.
(g)   Train at least one Guinean lawyer to ensure the continmity of legal
services in the Mintstry.
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have had at least three years of
relevant experience In the legal profession, preferably in developing coun-
tries. His experience should include negotiation of International contracts
and participation in legal issues involving economic, financial and fiscal
aspects. He should be fluent in written and oral Portuguese and have a good
working knowledge of English or French.



-37-
ANNEX VII
Page 10 of 18
The appointment will be for a period of one year. By the end of six
months the Advisor wtll have recruited a Guinean lawyer to work with and train
to assume his responsibiLittes and functions.



-38-
ANNEX VII
Page l  of 18
REPUBLIC OF GUII&EA-BiSSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANi(ING ADItISC2I/NATIONAL BANK OF GUINE-BISSAU
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Advisor vill report directly to the Minister-Governor of the
National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BIG) and will work closely with the
Ministry of Economtc Coordination, Plarming and International
Cooperation, the linistry of Commerce and Tourism and the Ninistry of
Finance.
Prtncipal Responsibtltties and Functions
The principal tasks of the Advtsor will be to assist in the
establtshment of BNG-s development banking activities.  In this context, he
Will
(a)   support the organization and development of productive activities in
priority areas for economtc development;
(b)   support medium and long-term credit activities for financing invest-
ments in agriculture, ftsheries, agro-industries, manufacturing and
housing construction;
(c)   obtain technical and financial assistance for feasibility studies for
commerctal projects, particularly in those sectors of major import-
ance to national economic development;
(d)   assist the BNG in the development of an agricultural credit program
and its appltcation by regional areas of priority;
(e)   assist the BIG in implementing an appropriate and adequate accounting
system for the activities of the development banking department.
Qualtfications
The candidate for this post should have had at least five years of
relevant experience in development banking activities. He should have been a
senior officer in an institution of this type, preferably in a developing
country. His experience should encompass training in economic development
issues and national planntng, as well as managerial responsibilittes in
commercial activities. He should be fluent in Portuguese and have a working
knowledge of French and English.



-39-
ANNEX VII
Page 12 of 18
The tatttal appotntment wvilI be for a period of one year with the
understanding that the contr-ict ktdu be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied witi the services provtded during the taitial period. There-
after, the COntract might be extended annually, up to a total of four years.



-40-
ANNEX VII
Page 13 of 18
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LEGAL ADVISOR/NATIONAL BA   OF GEJIN-BISSAU
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responstbtli ty
The Advisor will report directly to the Mirnister-Governor of the
National BaLnk of Gainea-Bissau.
Princtpal Responsibilities and Functions
The major responsibtltttes of the Legal Advisor will be to:
(a)   assist in the implementation of the BNGs Organic Law and Introduce
the regulattons requtred to govern its execution (preparatton of by-
laws, preparation of personnel regulations);
(b)   review and establish BNG s legal and administrative procedures in
consultatton with relevant techntcal advisors, wtth particular
attention to procedures governing credits and guarantees and recovery
of disputed loans;
(c)   restructure the legal services of the BIG (advisory services,
procedural services, techntcal and fiscal procedure services).
(d)   act as consultant to the government on speciftc issues of interest
and on the legal/administrative aspects of BNG's operations;
(e)   train legal personnel for the BNG.
(f)   written briefs to the Nianster-Governor, on request, on matters
concerning the powers and competence of the BNG.
Qualtfications
The candidate for this post should have at least ftve years of
relevant experience, preferably having spent some of that time working with a
bank. It would be desirable for him to have had training in banking activi-
ties and for him to have worked in a developing country. He should be fluent
in Portuguese, with a good working knowledge of French or English.
The initial appointment will be for a period of one year with the
understanding that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied with the services provided during the inittal period. There-
after the contract might be extended annually, up to a total of three years.



-41-
ANNEX VII
Page 14 of 18
GUElDA-BISSAU
Technical Assistance Project
Study of Farm Prices and Incentives
Terms of Reference
A.      Context and background
Guinea-Bissau has substantial agricultural potential. It could easily
achieve food self-suffictency and produce farm products in appreciable quanti-
ties for the local market and for export, as 'It did prior to independence from
Portugal in 1974.
Over the last two decades, however, agriculture production has de-
clined. This decline is attributable in part to the impact of external fac-
tors, including the war of independence (1964-74), the 1973/74 and 1979 oil
shocks, recurrent drought (1979, 1980 and 1983), and the worsening of the
terms of trade. There can be no doubt, however, that the crisis affecting the
agricultural sector is traceable primarily to domestic factors under the
Government's control. The Government has failed to allocate suffictent public
funds to rural development, and tt has set up a state marketing system to
supply the countryside with goods and take delivery of production which has
never worked efficiently. At the same time, the QGvernment set up a price
system covering all basic agricultural products 2i which made it impossible to
adjust producer prices correctly. As a result they have become too low in
relation to production costs and border prices (at the shadow price for the
Guinea-Bissau peso). At the same time, the Government has kept consumer prices
extremely low, in order to contain political pressures in the towns. The peso
has gradually become overvalued as a result; and the fatlure to allocate
sufficient resources to import consumer goods and agricultural inputs for
rural dwellers, together with the inefficient functioning of the state
marketing system, have led to a situation where rural areas are virtually
deprived of supplies. Operation of the parallel market system has alleviated
this problem in areas bordering on Senegal, Guinea-Bissau's main trading
partner in the region. The parallel market has not developed sufficiently,
however, to make up for the lack of goods in other areas, particularly in the
isolated southern part of the country. Consequently, small farmers have
reverted to subsistence agriculture, the Government has been obliged to import
growing quantities of cereals, and agricultural exports have severely
declined.
1/ This category presents what are known as "tradtttonal" products: rice,
peanuts, cotton, palm nuts and kernels, cashew nuts, fish and seafood,
and forest products.



-42-
ANNEX VII
Page 15 of 18
The Government recently took a number of actions to remedy thts situa-
tion. As a ftrst step, private traders were authorized on an ad hoy basis to
export "nontradittonal" goods and to import "nonessential' goods 1 up to 70%
of the amount of foreign currency generated by their acttvities. The process
conttnued in December 1983 with the follo-ing series of measures: (i) 100%
devaluation of the peso followed by sliding adjustments of 1% a week; (it)
increases tn offtcial prices for traditional agricultural products averaging
70%; (tit) assignment of responstbility for retail trade and primary marketing
of agricultural products to the private sector; and (tv) a parallel reorgani-
zation of the Armazens do Povo and SOCO!IN, the two state marketing corpora-
tions. In addition, the Government has siace December 1983 been shipping a
number of consumer items to rural areas that it purchased wtth bilateral
balance of payments assistance.                                             4
The measures described above have already produced some favorable
results; they are, however, insufficient and will need to be supplemented by
new measures that the Government proposes to take under its economic adjust-
menit pnlicy. In this regard, the Government has asked IDA (International
Development Associatton) to provide funding under a technical assistance
project for the performance of a study of farm prices and incentives.
B.      Objectives and scope of the study
The study will analyze the productive environment in which farmers
work in Guinea-Bissau, particularly with regard to producer prices, production
systems and technology, availability of inputs and consumer goods, and effec-
tiveness of support services. It will include a critical review of government
agricultural policy with particular reference to public investment, marketing
and farm pricing. It wtll lead to the formulation of recommendations on the
structure and level of farm prices, the mechanism for adjusting these prices,
commercial arrangements for the cnllection and transportation of production
and for supplying inputs and consumer goods, policy with regard to taxes and
subsidies, and instituttonal implications. These will make it possible to
strengthen incentives for producers and rehabilitate agricultural production.
The study will be based on the following elements:
(a)  analysis of price structures at the producer and consumer levels;
(b)  review of marketing systems for agricultural products, consumer
goods and inputs;
(c)  establishment of enterprise budgets for the main crops; and
(d)  establishment of whole-farm budgets for the main types of farming
systems.
1/ Products classified as "essenttal" are rice, wheat, flour, and sugar.



-43-
ANNEX VII
Page 16 of 18
Analysis of prices. This analysis will describe the structure of pro-
ducer and consumer prices and how these have changed over ttme, both under the
official system and on the parallel market; a distinction will be made between
the prices for cash crops and food crops; and the study vli also Include com-
parisons with prices in Senegal. The study will be based on an examination of
existing data, together with the collection of new data by surveying producers
on the prices received for agricultural produce, prices patd for Inputs and
other primary production factors, and agricultural consumer items.
Marketing review. The object of this review will be to describe the
domestic and foreign marketing systems, both public and private (official and
nonofficial). It will cover the market for both finished and intermediate pro-
ducts and that for primary production factors. The volumes passtng through the
different marketing channels will be estimated, as will be the costs and re-
sources at each level, taking account of seasonal and regional variations. It
will examine all the constraints to the free circulation of goods, particular-
ly in regard to transportation and storage, and trade legislation.
Enterprise budget. Preparation of these budgets will be based on
identification of the major crop activities in the country, and the collection
of statistical data on each crop activity by region. The potential for ex-
panding existing acttvities by increasing the supply of inputs or introducing
appropriate technology will be examined in the context of the climate, sotls,
infrastructure and socioeconomic environment in each zone. The input/output
coefficients for each acttvity will be estimated, and will serve as a basis,
together with price data, for the preparation of enterprise budgets at offi-
cial prilces, at parallel market prices and at reference prices estimated in
the course of the price analysis. These budgets will make it possible to cal-
culate income per he9tare and per day of work, and compute domestic resource
cost coefficients. 1 These will then be aggregated for the individual holding
to draw up typical whole-farm budgets (see below).
Typical whole-farm budgets. Typical farm types representative of the
main farming systems in the country -will be identified on the basis of demo-
graphic data, area under cultivation and activities pursued. Farm income will
be estimated, with allowance for production consumed on the farm, and taking
account of tncome from sales on the parallel and offtcial markets and work
outside the farm. Operating expenses will be estimated in lig'it of the origin
of each category of goods and services and how they were acquired. Lastly,
production-consumption links -will be examined with particular attentton to
obstacles to higher producttvity, such as limited markets, low producer
prices, lack of access to consumer goods and intermedtate products, agricul-
tural credit, and the like.
1/ The domestic resource cost (DRC) is the ratio betweea the cost in terms of
domestic resources (estimated in terms of reference prices) and net
foreign exchange receipts (value of production sold less cost of inputs).



-44-
ANNEX VII
Page r/ 0f 18
C.      Implementation of the study
The study would be carried out in three main phases: (1) collectton
and analysis of general data and preparation of surveys; (2) field surveys and
processing of data, together with further analysis; (3) formulation and dis-
cussion of conclustons.
Phase 1: This phase, which would last about two months, would start
wtth an analysis of existing statistics, a review of available reports, inter-
riews with experts and local officials, and visits to the field, to determine
the volume and extent of the information available, identify gaps in coverage
and the main ltnes of further research. This phase would also see the start of
the prtce analysis, the marketing study and the general description of the
macroeconomic context. This phase would also serve to prepare the ground for
the following phase (collection of primary data), i.e. recruitment and train-
ing of interviewers, compilation and testing of questionnatres, and resolution
of logistical problems involved in actual implementation of the surveys.
Phase 2: This phase, which would last about four months, would include
surveys in the fteld to gather the primary data needed for the study. Four
different kinds of survey are planned: production, work time, consumption, and
prices. The production and work time surveys would be carried out roughly over
a one-month period in each zone, involving a random sample of some 60 farmers.
The consumption survey would cover a subsample of ten farmers in each area. In
ori9 r to precisely ev.Lablish the matn parameters determining productton per
l~->e e(e.g. seeding density, work time, yields), a fraction (to be deter-
mt.iaZ of the plots covered would be physically surveyed. The farmers making
up the main sample would be visited three times: twice for the production
survey, and once for the physical surveying of their plot. Farmers in the
subsample would be vtsited a third time for the consumption survey. In each of
the areas, a price survey would be carried out in three rural markets and one
urban market; an additional survey would be conducted in Bissau. These price
surveys would be repeated at least once.
The concluding period of phase 2 of the study would be devoted to
processing the data collected, drawing up agricultural budgets, and harmo-
niztng the global data comptled previously with the results of the field
surveys.
Phase 3: This phase would be devoted to submitting the results of the
study and discussing them wtth Government and IDA.
D.      Staff, resources required and implementation schedule
The study is expected to encompass the period July 1984-April 1985.
The InLernational staff required would consist of a team of four experts who
wou.ld be deployed as shown on the accompanying timetable.
(1)     The Director of the Study would be responsible for all aspects of the
study both in Bissau and abroad and be involved in all the critical phases of



-45-
ANNEX VII
Page IB of 18
the study. He would be responsible for submitting the results to government
officials for discussion, and incorporating their comments in the final ver-
sion of the report. He would work for a total of two months in the field and
0.5 months overseas.
(2)     The Agricultural Economist would be the permanent contact for local
officials in the field. He would reside in Guinea-Bissau for at least seven
months. He would be responsible for conducting the surveys, processing the
data collected and drawing up the farm budgets. He would take part in the
final discussions on the report.
(3)     The Farm Pricing and iMarketing Specialist would be responsible for the
price analysis and the marketing review. He would thus have to work closely
with the Agricultural Economist in carrying out and analyzing the price sur-
veys. He would also be responsible for the macroeconomic survey required as a
frame of reference for the study, designed to situate the agricultural sector
within the country's overall economy.
(4)     The Agronomist would be responsible for identifying and exami-ing all
the agricultural aspects of the study. He would become involved at the end of
phase 1 and the start of phase 2 and participate in the analysis of the sec-
ondary production data compiled, and help in identifying agroecological zones,
typical farming systems and the features of the main crops to be studied in
connection with sample selection and preparation of questionnaires. He would
also be involved at the end of phase 2 and the start of phase 3 to assist in
the processing of the data and interpreting the results.
The Guinean contact would be the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BNG)
which would supply counterparts to the team of experts together with the staff
needed to conduct the surveys.
The consultant would be required to furnish all other resources re-
quired.
Interim reports would be required at the end of phases 1 and 2; the
preliminary final report should be ready by the end of February 1985 for re-
view by the Government of Guinea-Bissau and the Bank; and the final report
incorporattng all the comments and suggestions made by the Government and the
Bank should be completed by the end of April 1985.



,6 *c                                          0                                          5!30
S               E              N               E               G
I 0~~~~ 
--
,_~ ~~~                                                             / kic/  =--- - iei
aas                        - luS   f
r                                                                                                           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
-         .3 .'  fC aC                                       Wi ,                B
i;~~~,-aAmonhe   lp~~~              4 w   0                   -    EnaaRAli     --S
n.ANGO~~~~~~~~~~~
,A  hy. b-    ~ -  .,  aA m                                                                               L.
oOlnyw &-*'A     -  -   --k                       --,no                    -7
V* ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     , 'OV-W of lb ,edE fi
*  -                                                                                       X                          ,</tSNog> I  -
C0- w i, llt 1 a                -        .n,                        - ,
w.0~~~~~~~~ md             j\0-;s/  w    
I. ftf drsu&C
Q-dAn*onhe 4  p                              .' , A n or
-F~ t-W                                                                               -a ir.
.,~fc6%* ;   ..,*
_                           ' orr<oco~~~~S- - - :-       oa'         C w
GUnsEA
spBIs5Au A F R I CA
Wh ow Ae  e' poe D a
Weddfts*n jt. ..ca..EvDv
We w,we..,ce0* _1 rAe,__e. 
I?.. dw.mmD. ssee aeds te   *-e.                      -_   Z_
-v fSf~  ot _                               ISrC 7..



IBRD- 157:.
14-30                                                                         MAY 1I62
A                L
Th Oo.or                               To Dahcr                  ,e DOoA
w    eanttrnC                      --a-*                                                  ____i
XCnanbr            , -        Cadozs                                      - a   , -
v      ioofanm'                          '       \                   / SO| O,                                                                    \         l
u-i
-~~~~~~~~~1-
B A   Af T    ae  A   10
Modina do Soe -  1
P.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA - BISSAU
REIPUB L ICA DA CU /Ne - ; 155A U
-           Paved roads             4,      oin domesti parts
ESTRADAS ALCArTRoADAS           PORrOS  rEIE iOR ES
co-u                                                                                                                                      INw D   wm5e   Z  t
Unpaved roads             .     l nternationd I port
'L     Coem                     |   !                                                               ESTRADA' DE TERRA                PORTO INTERJACIOIAL
owl1 B        A                                                                              ------ FeederroadF                        Inter=tional airport
CA*IMIHOS RURAlS                 AEROPORTO iNrE FRNACIGRVAL
Rivers                    *     National capital
-  RIOS                            CAPtrAL NACIO&AL
Swamps                    @     ProvincIl capitals
MA AGAIS                        CAPITAL REGIIONAL
Mud flats                       Regional boundaries
-    Co,neo                                                                            PA aIXOSLODOSOS                  LIAIrIESENATRE REGIOES
Internatonal boundarpes  io
FROarEIRAS IIVTrI E ONAICIS  !
0       10      20       30       10      50       60      70       90
I                                        CKILOMETERS
I |         0            1                          3020  3                     50
MILES
15b100'       -                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~19'30                               t-C,



