OFFIC!AL        CREDIT NUMBER 1517-0 GUB
DOCU M NTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      e   ks                   , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1517-0 GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated _'Ele.             2- S     , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association         to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Absociation, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BNG" means Banco Nacional da Guine-Bissau; and
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 28, 1983 and
October 6, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of        the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1994, and ending May 15,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. BNG is designated as the representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required as per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project under
the overall responsibility of BNG with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engin-
eering, financial, management and planning practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿(b) In order to assist BNG in carrying out its respon-
sibility under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower, acting through
BNG, shall: (i) employ a team of project management consultants
and experts; and (ii) assign adequate numbers of qualified local
professional and support staff in BNG to work with such team in
discharging such responsibility.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ accounting, bank-
ing, economic, engineering, financial, legal, management, plan-
ning and training consultants and experts.
(b) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of the consultants and experts referred to in Sec-
tions 3.01 (b) and 3.02 (a) above, shall be satisfactory to the
Association and such consultants and experts shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(c) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consul-
tants and experts in the performance of their services for the
Project and make available to them all information relevant to
the Project.
(d) Any amendment or waivers of the terms and conditions
of employment of the consultants and experts employed under the
Project, or any grant of any material extension of time or
approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or substitu-
tion of personnel of such consultants and experts shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the team of consul-
tants and experts referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment: (a) within three months of their arrival in the country to
prepare and furnish    to  the Association for its review and
aDproval work plans for the remainder of the calendar year;
(b) subsequently, not later than November 30 of each year,
to prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and
approval annual work plans for the next year;
(c) not later than one month after the end of each calendar
quarter, to prepare and furnish to the Association progress


﻿-5-
reports covering the execution of the work plans during that
quarter; and
(d) not later than January 31 of each year, to prepare and
furnish to the Association detailed progress reports on the exe-
cution of the work plans during the preceding calendar year.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation upon its obligations
under Section 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
assign to the consultants and experts employed under the Project
adequate numbers of qualified professional staff as counterpart
staff and provide such consultants and experts with adequate num-
bers of local support personnel.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall appoint to the management
unit referred to in Part C (iii) of the Project, one representa-
tive each from BNG, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Com-
merce and Tourism and the Ministry of Economic Coordination,
Planning and International Cooperation.
Section 3.06. Before undertaking any study or providing any
service referred to in Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its approval a proposal for each
such study or each such service.
Section 3.07. Before undertaking the program of fellowships
referred to in Part H (v) of the Project, the Borrower shall fur-
nish to the Association for its approval a proposal detailing the
courses to be followed and the qualifications and experience of
the candidates intended to follow them.
Section 3.08. Before undertaking the construction of the
housing referred to in Part I (i) of the Project, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its approval the design of
such housing.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
(b) The   Borrower  shall  cause  all  goods  and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) On or before September 30, 1986, or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, the Borrower and the Association shall conduct .a joint
review of the progress of the Project to date and, to this end,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the


﻿-7-
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accoriplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources   and  expenditures, in    respect  of   the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orde-s, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by


﻿- 8 -
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other inform-
ation concerning said accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that the team of project management consul-
tants and experts referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment shall have been employed.
Section 5.02. The date CQe(-e4r1CA 2-J1           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.10 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
BNG
38 Avenida Amilcar Cabral
Bissau
Republic of Guinea-Bissau


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:
BANGUINE                            241 BNG-BI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
y /     Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Resident advisors         1,600,000          100%
(2) Short-term consul-          800,000         100%
tants and studies
under Parts C thru
G of the Project
(3) Project management          400,000         100% of foreign
team                                       expenditures
(4) Training and                440,000         100%
fellowships
(5) Junior economists,          100,000         100% of foreign
secretarial and                            expenditures or
support staff                              85% of local
expenditures
(6) Equipment, materials,       260,000         100% of foreign
supplies and vehicles                      expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures
(7) Civil works under           400,000         100% of foreign
Part I of                                  expenditures and
the Project                                75% of local ex-
penditures
(8) Refunding of              1,000,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(9) Unallocated               1,000,000
TOTAL          6,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed en account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (8)
above is in excess of the amount due, the balance will be reallo-
cated to Category (9).
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;


﻿- 12 -
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Part F of
the Project under Category (2), until the Association shall have
given the approval provided for in Section 3.06 of this Agree-
ment;
(c) payments made for expenditures in respect of Part H (v)
of the Project under Category (4), until the Association shall
have given the approval provided for in Section 3.07 of this
Agreement; and
(d) payments made for expenditures in iespect of Part I (i)
of the Project under Category (7), until the Association shall
have given the approval provided for in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's objectives are to assist the Borrower in
strengthening the macro-economic management capability of key
economic ministries and to develop the institutional framework of
other ministries and agencies. The Project consists of the fol-
lowing Parts:
Part A:   Office of the President
(i) Strengthening of the staff capability of the Office of
the President in financial and monetary matters, general develop-
ment policy and international economic affairs;
(ii) strengthening of the staff capability of the State
Secretariat of the Presidency in matters concerning public admin-
istration and legislation complementary to the labor code and to
the implementation of the Borrower's organic structure; and
(iii) equipment of a Documentation Center.
Part B:   Ministry of Finance
(i) Establishment of a Studies Bureau; and
(ii) strengthening of the staff capability of the Ministry
in handling legal and economic matters, namely with respect to
support and management of state enterprises.
Part C:   BNG
(i) Establishment of BNG's development banking activities;
(ii) strengthening of BNG's commercial banking capabilities;
(iii) strengthening   of  a  management  unit  to  administer
emergency external aid;
(iv) strengthening of BNG's staff capability in handling
legal matters; and
(v) installation and operation of banking equipment and
materials.


﻿- 14 -
Part D:   Ministry of Economic Coordination, Planning and
International Cooperation
(i) Strengthening of the staff capability of the Ministry
in administering external aid, in preparing annual reports on
external aid and in operating a technical bureau for aid coor-
dination and management;
(ii) strengthening of the staff capability of the Ministry
in the annual review of the Borrower's Four-Year Plan,     in the
preparation of yearly plans for the years 1984 to 1986     and in
establishing and maintaining liaison with the technical minis-
tries in the preparation of sector plans; and
(iii) strengthening of the staff capability of the Ministry
in the formulation of economic policy and in the preparation of
economic studies, and in project preparation, evaluation and
monitoring.
Part E:   Ministry of Natural Resources and Industry
(i) Strengthening of the staff capability of the Studies,
Projects and Planning Bureau;
(ii) strengthening of the staff capability of the General
Directorates for Industry and Energy in formulating investment
policy, preparing investment projects and conducting general
investment studies.
Part F:   Other Ministries
Studies for, and consultants' and experts' services to,
other Ministries in pursuit of national economic goals.
Part G:   Studies
(i) The development of alternatives to the existing system
of prices for agricultural products in order to determine an
effective means of providing incentives to farmers for increased
production; and
(ii) a review of state enterprises, including an analysis
of the institutions, controls, policies and other factors affect-
ing such enterprises and their performance, together with recom-
mendations for action by the Borrower, including possible liquid-
ation, privatization or rehabilitation of individual enterprises.


﻿- 15 -
Part H:   Training
(i) Training of BNG staff in banking activities;
(ii) a three-year program of fellowships for staff of the
Ministry of Economic Coordination, Planning and International
Cooperation, and training of regional planners and planning staff
of other Ministries;
(iii) training of staff involved in public and regional
administration, the application of labor legislation and human
resource management;
(iv) training of staff of the Ministry of Finance and other
Ministries in the Ministry's Training and Documentation Center;
and
(v) a program of fellowships abroad for candidates for
advanced degrees in economics, financial analysis, public admin-
istration and other areas of importance to the achievement of
national economic goals.
Part I:   Civil Works
(i) Construction and furnishing of four detached houses and
10 duplex units for permanent advisors and short-term consul-
tants; and
(ii) construction and equipment of a Training and Documenta-
tion Center in the Ministry of Finance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   E;xcept as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded it accordance with pro-
cedu-:es consistent with those set forth in tte current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (7) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bid-
ding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment, furniture and office supplies shall
be procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance
with local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 18 -
With respect to all contracts: (i) for equipment, materials
and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,OOC or more;
(ii) for vehicles; and (iii) for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed.
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if


﻿- 19 -
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for pe-:formance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
19 8
FOR SECRETARY


