Report No. PIC3690
Project Name                      Hungary-Quick Start Gas Turbine Project (@#)
Region                            Europe and Central Asia
Sector                            Energy
Project ID                        HUPA45251
Guarantor                         Hungary
Borrower                          MVM Rt.
Vam utca 5-7
1011 - Budapest
Tel: (36-1) 202 0782; Fax (36-1) 201 9443
Date of PID                       June 10, 1997
Appraisal Date                    September 1996
Projected Board Date              June 26, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      The installed capacity of licensed generators in Hungary is
approximately 6,800 MW, of which 3,950 MW is oil/gas based, 1,850
MW is nuclear, 900 MW is coal and the balance is hydro electric.
Demand for electricity has been declining from 32.4 TWh in 1990 to
29.0 TWh in 1995, largely because of the reduced consumption of
industries (demand by households slightly increased during the
period). In 1995-96, for the first time since 1990, there was a
marginal increase in power consumption, as the economy begins to
recover.
2.      The power sector has been radically restructured in recent
years. In particular: the sector was unbundled into 8 generators,
one transmission and dispatch company and 6 distributors; all
sector entities were corporatized; an electricity law was approved
under which a regulator was introduced; cost of service tariff
principles were developed and implemented so that cross subsidies
were significantly reduced; and a new uniform accounting code was
introduced. During 1995-96, the 6 distribution utilities together
with three electricity generators were partially privatized. MVM Rt
is the owner and operator of the transmission network, and is
responsible for dispatch and planning. MVM, through subsidiaries,
owns nearly 100% of the nuclear power plant (PAKS), and has a
significant stake in the other generators. The Government will
attempt again in 1997 to privatize four conventional generating
plants and sell a minority stake in MVM Rt.
3.      An elaborate legal framework applicable to the power sector
was introduced in 1994. In particular, the Electricity Act
establishes the rights and obligations of the different parties in
the sector, and defines the responsibilities of the State, and
those of the regulator (the Hungarian Energy Office - HEO). In this
respect, effective 1997, HEO will be entrusted with tariff setting
on the basis of principles established in the legislation (until



end-1996, the Government has been entrusted with the establishment
of tariffs). Tariffs have been frequently increased in recent
years. It is anticipated that from 1977 onwards, tariffs will be
adjusted on a quarterly basis consistent with the economic
principles guiding HEO's operations. Costs presently disallowed
(insurance, decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, etc.) will
be gradually introduced in the tariffs, as further adjustments take place.
Project Objectives
4.      The broad objective of the Project is to enable the Hungarian
power system to meet the supply reliability standards required to
interconnect with the W. European power systems, thereby permitting
the country to benefit from electricity trade. Until the early
1990's, Hungary was interconnected with Ukraine, as well as other
Centrally Planned Countries in Europe. Since then, the
interconnection with Ukraine has all but been abandoned (given the
supply difficulties in that country); together with the Czech
Republic, Poland, and Slovakia, Hungary has sought to integrate
itself with Western Europe within the framework of a pan-European
grouping of the utilities referred to as UCPTE; the central
European countries have been admitted to UCPTE on a conditional
basis in October 1995. This grouping requires from members high
quality supply standards, and inter alia the availability of
secondary reserves equivalent to the size of the largest unit on
the system. While many European countries rely on their
hydroelectric plants for such secondary reserves, Hungary does not
have significant hydroelectric potential. Hence, the strategy
adopted has been to secure such reserves from a combination of
spinning reserves (therefore running power plants below
capacities); imports; and gas turbines. The objective of the
Project is therefore to assist Hungary in meeting its secondary
reserve requirements by providing approximately 200 MW of simple
cycle (quick start) gas turbines. MVM has undertaken to UCPTE that
this additional capacity will be installed as a matter of priority.
Project Description
5.      The Project was defined following detailed feasibility
studies conducted by MVM, and its engineering subsidiary, ERBE.
These studies concluded that simple cycle gas turbines, in relation
to other options (imports, pumped storage) represented the least
cost solution to meet the requirements in secondary reserves. The
gas turbines will operate on diesel oil, as detailed studies
concluded that natural gas would be too costly because of the low
rates of utilization (up to 20 times per annum, for periods up to
two hours each).
6.      The project will thus consist of about 220 MW of simple-cycle
(quick start) gas turbines to be installed in two major substations
located in Eastern and Western Hungary, selected on the basis of
network studies. The power plants will not be manned - operation
and maintenance will be conducted by nearby power generation
companies which MVM will contract for that purpose.
- 2 -



7.      The single cycle gas turbine generator sets and step-up
substations for both plant sites, Liter and Sajoszoged, will be
procured through a single-responsibility contract. Main equipment
for the plants and substations (about 80% of total project cost)
are to be procured through international competitive bidding.
Project Costs and Financing
8.      The cost of the Project has been estimated at US$96, of which
the foreign cost amounts to US$64 million. The project would be
financed by a World Bank Loan of US$60 million; the local costs
would be financed by MVM from its own cash flow and possibly
through local banks. The Bank loan would finance about 94% of the
foreign exchange requirements. The loan would be made directly to
MVM for 15 years including a 5 year grace period.
Project Implementation
9.      The project will consist of supply and installation
contract(s) for the electrical/mechanical component, and separate
contracts for the civil works; and the fuel supply and fire
protection systems. Given the tight schedule (i.e. completion by
end-1998), the coordination among the three-four contractors will
be critical to ensure timely execution of the Project. In this
respect, MVM, and its engineering subsidiary (ERBE) have
demonstrated good capabilities in the past, so that no particular
difficulties should be expected in this respect.
Project Benefits
10.     The main benefit of the project will be to ensure the quality
and reliability of electricity supply to the Hungarian power
markets and to facilitate electricity trade with neighboring
countries. Some of the benefits will not be readily quantifiable -
for instance, they will promote foreign investments for which a
high quality power supply is critical. The estimated economic rate
of return is 16%.
Sustainability and Risks
11.     The project has been carefully designed to meet a portion of
Hungary's requirements in secondary reserves. The only realistic
alternative to open cycle gas turbines is a 675-MW pumped storage
hydroelectric plant to be built in Eastern Hungary, of which 200 MW
will be dedicated to secondary reserves. That scheme, which is now
the object of a pre-feasibility study, is estimated to cost
US$1,000/kW vs. US$440/kW for the proposed project. Even if that
project proves justified, the timing of its construction is
uncertain, given all the environmental and other obstacles it is
expected to confront. Thus, if built at all, it will not be
commissioned before 2003. Should the project nevertheless
materialize, the open cycle gas turbines could be converted to an
efficient combined cycle plant.
12.     Another risk to the Project is linked to the present
uncertainty in Hungary's power sector which is due essentially to
the unfinished privatization drive; the financial regime the
- 3 -



Hungarian Energy Office will impose, effective 1997, on the
different operators; the obligation upon MVM to enter into long
term purchase agreements with generators, which may not be balanced
by matching long term sales agreements; and the possibility offered
to generators, under certain circumstances, to sell power directly
to distributors. Furthermore, MVM faces different types of
financial risks particularly since it operates on thin profit
margins, and is commited to long term electricity purchases and
sales agreements. However, these risks are manageable given the
strategic role of MVM in the sector, the new framework under which
tariffs are elaborated, and the intention to partially privatize MVM.
Lessons Learned From Past Operations in the Sector
13.     The Bank has made so far two operations in Hungary's power
sector, the Power Project (Loan 2697-HU of May 20, 1986, a US$64
million loan , largely aimed at rehabilitating power plants and
other electrical facilities), and the Energy and Environment
Project (Loan 3705-HU of February 17, 1995, a US$100 million loan
comprising a combined cycle power plant, the upgrading of the
dispatch center, and technical assistance aimed at upgrading human
resources).
14.     In general project execution has been satisfactory, although
implementation was behind appraisal schedules in both cases
(largely on account of changes in the scope of the Project, and the
restructuring of the power sector). Furthermore, MVM's financial
performance was generally satisfactory, until 1995, when MVM
incurred large losses, largely on account of the restructuring of
the sector. The risks of delays in this Project will be reduced in
this instance by the early initiation of procurement.
Poverty Category
15.     Not Applicable.
Environmental Aspects
16.     Although the Project is not strictly speaking a conventional
power plant, it is proposed to be rated category A. The two gas
turbines will be located within the compounds of existing
substations, at a distance of about 4 km from nearby villages. The
main environmental consideration relates to noise levels, but this
is minor given that the units will operate sporadically. The
environmental assessments were approved by the Government of
Hungary and meet World Bank requirements. No resettlement issues
are anticipated with respect to the Project.
Timetable
17.     It is proposed to process the Loan in accordance with the
following schedule:
Preappraisal Mission            May 1996
-4 -



Appraisal                        September 1996
Negotiations                     January 1997
Board Presentation               June 1997
Effectiveness                    August 1997
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1997.
- 5 -



