MVM RL HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.       QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
cAS TURBINE PANT AT LFIFR  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMEN        EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT IN HUNGARY
(Secondary Reserve)                 E. I S2.
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT LITtR
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Site Description
1.    The 2.4 hectres project site is located in the outskirts of Liter village
approximately 1 km North-North-East from the settlement (1850 inhabitants) in the
Transdanubian (Dunfintid) region, about 95 km South-West from Budapest To N.W.
from Lit*r the region is bordered by the Veszpr*m highland, to S.E. by the Balaton
highland and the Vilonya hills. Lake Balaton, one of the most important recreation areas,
is about 5-6 km from the site. Within the geographical enviromnent of the project site
there are four more settlements (S6ly, Vilonya, Balatonffzfo, Kirilyszentisvi 300, 600,
5300, 300 inhabitants, respectively).
2.    The determining morphological element of the natural landscape is a dolomite
range in NE-SW direction. Treeless parts of the rocky surfice are covered with thin soil.
The Northern part is a highland of an average altitude of 200 m (BSL). The surface is
interrupted by small cone-shaped formations and ridges. The dolomite range is almost
cut into two parts by the so-called "great structural line of Lit6r" followed by the Bendola
creek. Along the line there have been seismic activities that can be characteized by a
maximum activity of 6-7 and 0.15 acceleration of 100 year frequency. In the geological
construction of the area the base rock can be found directly under the thin topsoil;
limestne, dolomite, and, at some places, lime marl with clay marl inclusions. The most
important water resources in the area are the karstic waters in the carbonate deposit that
forms the base rock of the Bakony mountains. The springs come to the surface at an
altitude of 200 m (BSL) or over. The springwaters flow in E, SE direction cosponding
to the slope. The Bendola-creek having its source in the great structual zone nms in the
wide erosion bed.
Environment status
Climatic Conditions
3.    The yearly average tempemture inthe region is about 10 C (2.3 to 26.6).
Relative humidity varies between 62 to 83%. Rainy days of the year amounts to 120.
The most likely wind directions are N-NW (14.4%) and NW (13.7/o); the average wind
velocity is about 3 mis.
| ! E1LYCC PYI



d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MVM RL HUNGARIAN POWER COMPAMES LTD.        QUICK START GAS TURNE PROJECT
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT ULtR  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT       EXECUIVE SUMMARY
Water Quality
4.    Subsurface water (karstic water wells) have high hardness values and total salt
content (350-600 mg/L). Nitrate concentrations can achieve 30 mg/L (potable water
standard: 20 mg/L).
5.    Bendola-creek running in the vicinity of the area is in the Sdd-Nddor system is
contamiated by numerous mine water and wastewater inflows from industial plants.
Air Quality
6.   Annual ambient air concentrations were estimated as follows: 15-30 pg/m3 for
SO2, 24-45 for g/n?3 for NO,, 33-48 gg/m3 fordus Yearly liit values are 70, 70, 50
Lg/m3, respectively.
Noise
7.    There are several traffic roads in the vicinity maldng the environment
considerably noisy. Noise load measuements have shown that loads in the daytime
period were close to the guideline values or higher by some dBs. In the night no excess
values were measured at the border lines of the site, and nearby houses.
Potential Environmental Impacts
Construction
S.    Approximately 3000 m3 of soil layer is to be excavated and shall be stockpiled
safely in order to be backfilled afker construction.
9.    Building materials and constuction equipment shall be transported to the site by
road. This may cause higher noise and dust levels than usual in the daytime. Measures
(e.g. wet the roads) shall be used to prvent unnecessary noise and dust. Wastes shall be
collected and disposed (by the contractor). Any hazardous wastes collected shal be
treated according to regulions. Air pollution by engine exhausts shall not be significant.
Constuction shall not disturb natural habitats.
Air Pollution and Air Quality
10.   Emission levels of dust, NOx, and S02 shall be below the permissible values. All
pollutants are within Hungarian air quality standards.
Soil Quality
11. Soil may potentially be affected by oil manipulation (transport, racidng, storage,
feeding). Monitoring system shal imnediately detect leakage and corrective measures
will be carried out immediately. Soot deposit in surfiace waters and on soil is negligible.
2



MVM Rt HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.       QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT LI tR  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Surface and Subsurface Water Quality
12.   Communal wastewaters shall be collected and trnported for disposal,
accordingly no negative impacts are anticipated. A dmain system will collect rainwater.
Rainwater flows shall be led to an oil separator as they can be contaminated.
13.   Balaton can only be affected by the airborne emissions. Due to short operational
periods and reduced emission levels no significant impacts are forecast. The same is
valid for Bendola-creek. According to geological conditions of the area, subsurface water
contamination can be neglected.
Impacts Originating from Handling and Storage of Raw Materials and Wastes
14. Fuel oil and demineralized water are the only raw materials. Appropriate
measures will ensure hydrocarbon emissions and spills from tanks will be insignificant.
15.   Hazardous wastes (oil, oily rag, oil absorbing material, oily sludge, used batteries
and air filters of the gas turbine) shall temporarily be stored at a hazardous waste storage
place until tansported away for disposal or to be destroyed. Asbestos-containing
insulation or sealing materials, halon gases for fire extinguishing and halogenated
twansformer oils are not permitted to use at the plant.
Noise Emissions
16.   According to the Hungarian regulations the soundpressure level 1 m distance
from the gas turbine building (container) may not exceed 85 dB(A) and at 10 m from the
border line is 70 dB(A). Those values will be specified in the bidding document. The
noise load caused by the new facility may not exceed the current noise load limits which
are 40 dB(A) at the dwelling houses during night time and 50 dB(A) during daytime.
Measurements indicate that the traffic noise load limit of 60 dB is sometimes exceeded or
closely approximated. Only negligible additional load can be expected from the project
All permits for construction and operation have been obtained. These permits were
reviewed and accepted by appropriate environmental authorities. Thus environmental
authorities have provided their approval of this project
Other Impacts
17.   As a result of short operational time and small absolute volune of flue gases, no
detectable microclimatic changes are expected. Airbome emissions shall not have effect
on the ecology. On the basis of available data of ecological habitats only small reversible
changes in the flora and fauna can be expected during constuction. Although the plant
shall be built on an agricultural area the landscape shall not be significantly influenc ed by
the sight of the power plant No negative health impacts are expected.
3



MVM RL HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.      QUICK START GAS TURMINE PROJECT
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT LiItR  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT     EXECUTV SUMMARY
Socio-economical Imparft. Results of Public Hearing and other Communications.
18. During January and February 1996 MVM Rt. organized a public information
procedure in harmony with legal rules. The independent committee supervising that
procedure has made decision including inter alfa the following statements:
*  The project is in accordance with the Hunganan energy policy with
environmental protection principles.
* On the basis of the feasibility study and the environmental impact statement
as well as by personal and other information given by the MVM Rt. and its
representative agents the local public and all the public (non govemrnmental)
organizations had the possibility to make their comments and obtain
satisfactory response on their questions.
*  According to the summary report prepared for MVM, the Committee stated
that the population concerned do not refuse the project, however, made
cetain reservatons from environmental point of view. The majority of
questions referred to the noise level, fuel quality, air pollution, etc.
Responses given and fuitre actions considered in order to satisfy the public
expectations and demands were adequate.
19.   Furthermore the Committee is of the opinion that
*  the investor should keep on informing the concerned municipalities,
* the investor should ensure the access of public documents concerning the
project for the affected municipalities as well as the possibility to make
comments on them, and
* the Hungarian Energy office should prescribe in its license the obligation of
posterior reporting on each starting of the plant - in order to check the
operation mode as secondary reserve.
Monitoring System
20.   During operation, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen onde, solid particulaes, carbon
monoxide, oxygen or carbon dioxide concentrations of the flue gas as well as tempeature
and volume flow shall be monitored in the stackl Noise measurement will be made in the
surrounding villages. Opertion of the oil trap shall be checked by soil sampling and
analyzing for oil on a monthly basis. Measured data shall be collected according to the
relevant regulations.
4



MVM RL HUNGAREAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.        QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT rit*R  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Environmental Impacts of Decommissionnmg
21.   Project life is 30 years. After shut-down, equipment shall be disassembled and
transprted from the site. The dismounted machine equipment can be recycled, the
underground concrete structures shall remain in place. No waste shall remain on the site.
22.   Expected impacts of decommissioning are similar to those of the construction
period. Only air pollution and noise caused by dismounting activities and transportation
are to be considered. Neither negative impacts to the surface and subsurface waters nor
soil contamination can be expected if the decommissioning is performed with the utnost
care. The area shall be remedied and landscaped. However, current land use can not be
filly restored.
Environmental Protecton Measures
23.  In the case of oil fired gas turbines NO. emission reduction can be achieve either
by water injection in the combustion chamber or by appropriate burner construction (dry
low NO. burner) depending on the combuster/turbine design selected.
24. To comply with the environmental rules communal wastes shall be collected in a
closed reservoir and twansported for disposal. Oil resistant tray at the oil racldng station
and under the pipelines shall prevent oil spills on the soil. Oily waters and oil spills from
the turbine shall be collected in an oil trap and cleaned in all oil separator. The separated
oil shall be collected and tansported for burming or disposal.
25.   Noise protection shall be ensured by silencers, special sound insulation, and
casing.
26.   To prevent impacts of accidents which might occur during transportation and on
material movement routes traffic roads shall have a hard cover and pavements shall slope
towards the catch basin. Liquid material runoffs shall be collected in the above-
mentioned oil separator. Leakage of fuel shal immediately be explored by the
monitoring system maling possible taldng the necessary measures without delay.
27.   For the case of earthquakes designing prescriptions of national standards shall be
taken into account and be supervised by licensing authorities.
28. Fire protection regulations are also prescribed in detail in relevant official orders
and standards. In the case of fire extnguishing spread materials can contaminate the
soil. However, extension of that contamination can easily be delineated and the
decontamination be performed.
5



MVM RL HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.       QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT SAJ6SZOGED ENviRONMENAL ASSESSMENT  EXECU7lVE SUMMARY
QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT IN HUNGARY
(Secondary Reserve)
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT SAJOSZOGED
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMRY
Site Description
1.    The 2.4 hectares project site is located in the outskirts of Saj6szoged in SW
direction from the settlement, about 155 km East-North-East from Budapest, and about
22 km SE from Miskolc, the largest town nearby.
2.    Average altitude of the region is about 100 m BSL. The original surface has been
transformed by erosion into hillfoot ridges of 5 m/sqkmn average relief. Variations in
topography are the abandoned river bed indicating the former flow direction to Tisza,
Saj6-Hernid and Hej1 rivers. Settlements in the area are mostly agrcultmal, but here are
also industial plants in the region (Tiszafijvhros: power plant, chemical works TVK).
Near the site there are some protected areas.
3.    Genal geological structure shows successive layers of gravel, sand, silt and clay.
Materials are sedimentary rocks and metamorphological slates. The most important
water resource in the area is the Saj6 river. Water volume contained in the gravel bench
is about 5-6 km3. Maximum water flow that can be extracted is 500,000 m /d. The most
important supply source is precipitation.
Environment Status
Climatic Conditions
4.    The yearly average temperature in the region is about 9.6 C (-5.3 to 26.5 C).
Relative humidity varies betwee 51 to 95%. Monthly average precipitation in the region
is between 30mm and 78 mm. Most frequent wind directions is North (15.1%) and NE
(1 0.7%/); average wind velocity is about 2.5 ni/s. The highest number of foggy days are
in December (9).
Water and Soil
5.    Subsurface water level fluctuation is 1.5 m in average. Quality of subsurface
waters can be characterized by relatively low pH value and high carbon dioxide content
(ime aggressivity). Chemical parameters of the groundwater are satisfaory except for
manganese content exceeding the Hungaran Standard on Drnking Water Quality by 10-
80%. Heavy and toxic metals were not found. Total petroleun hydrocarbons (TPH)
analysis performed on groundwater to check oil leakage and contion indicated



MVM Rt HUNGARLAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.       QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
GAS TURRBINE PLANT AT SAJ6SZOGED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT  EXECUTIE SUMMARY
exceedances of drinking water limits (100 pLg/L). Soil samples show small oil
contamination.
Air Quality
6.    Four monitoring stations are located in the vicinity. Additionally at the Primary
School of Saj6szoged a dust sampling device was established. Daily average
concentrations show values between 5-60 pg/lm3 for NO2 (limit 85 Lg/Im3), 6-113 pg/n3
for SO2 (limit 150 pg/nm3), and dust concentrations between 21-62 pgJ/M3 without excess
of the limit values.
Noise
7.    Heavy traffic in the area makes the environment noisy in daytime. In the night
period the noise load at the dwelling houses was max. 35 dB(A), less than the limit
value.
Potential Environmental Impacts
Construction
8.    Approximately 3000 mi3 of soil layer is to be excavated and shall be stockpiled
safely in order to be backfilled after constcton.
9.    Building mateials and constuction equipment shall be transported to the site by
road dunng the construction. This may cause higher noise and dust levels than usual in
the daytime. Measures (e.g. wet the roads) shall be used to prevent unnecessary noise
and dust. Wastes shall be collected and disposed (by the contractor). Any hazardous
wastes (oil, etc.) collected shall be treated according to regulations. Air pollution by
engine exbausts shall not be significant. Construction will not impact floma and fiuna.
Air Pollution and Air Quality
10.   Emission levels of dust, NOx, and S02 shall be within permissible values.
Ambient air concentrations for all pollutants are within Hungaian sundards.
Soil Quality
11.   Soil may potentially be affected by oil manipulation (tansport, racking, storage,
feeding). Monitoring shall detect leaks. Conective measures will be carried out
immediately. Soot deposit in surface waters and on soil is negligible.
Surface and Subsurface Water Quality
12.   Communal wastwats (max lm3/month) shall be collected and tansported for
disposal. No negative impacts are anticipated. A drain system shall collect rainwater.
Rainwater flows shall be led to an oil separator as they can be contaminated. No effects
on groundwater quality by the power plant can be expected.
2



MVM RS HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.       QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
GAS TIRBINE PLANT AT SAJ6SZ0GED ENRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
13.   Fuel oil and demineralized water are the only raw materials. Appropriate
measures will be taken to ensure hydrocarbon emissions and spills from tanks will be
insignificant.
14.   Hazardous wastes (oil, oily rag, oil absorbing material, oily sludge, used batteries
and air filters of the gas turbine) shall temporarily be stored at a hazardous waste storage
place until transported away for disposal or to be destroyed. Asbestos-containing
insulation or sealing materials, halon gases for fire extingg and halogenated
transforiner oils are not permitted to use at the plant
Noise Emissions
15.   According to the Hungaran regulations the soundpressure level 1 m distance
from the gas turbine building (container) may not exceed 85 dB(A). and at 10 m from the
border line is 70 dB(A). Those values will be specified in the bidding document The
noise load caused by the new facility may not exceed the current noise load limits which
are 40 dB(A) at the dwelling houses during night time and 50 dB(A) during daytime.
Currently the sound pressure level on the fuel transportation road is 49 dB(A). Increases
caused by fuel tranwsportation activity would only be max 1 dB(A). Noise levels with the
project shall increase slightly over current values. However, all standards will be met
Other Impacts
16.   As a result of short opertional time and the small absolute volume of flue gases,
no detectable microclimatic changes are expected. Airborne emissions shall not have
effect on the ecology. On the basis of available data of ecological habitats only small
reversible changes in the flora and fauna can be expected during constuction. Although
the plant shall be built on an agricultural area the landscape shall not be significantly
influenced by the sight of the power plant. No negative health impacts are expected.
Socio-economical Impacts. Results of Public Hearing and other Communications.
17. During January and February 1996 MVM Rt. organized a public information
procedure in harmony with legal rules. The independent committee supvising that
procedure has made decision including inter alia the following statements:
*  The project is in accordance with the Hungarian energy policy with
enviromnental protection principles.
*  On the basis of the feasibility study and the environmentl impact statement
as well as by personal and other information given by the MVM Rt and its
representative agents the local public and all the public (non gov l)
organiztions had the possibility to make their comments and obtain
satisfactory response on their questions.
3



MVM RL HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.      QUICK START GAS TURDE PROJECT
GAS TURBINE PLANT AT SAJOSZOGED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
* According to the summary report prepared for MVM, the Committee stated
that the population concerned support the project, and considered the public
information procedure satisfactory.
18.   Furthermore the Committee is of the opinion that
*  the investor should keep on informing the concemed municipalities,
* the investor should ensure the access of public documents concerning the
project for the affected municipalities as well as the possibility to make
comments on them, and
*  the Hungarian Energy office should prescribe in its license the obligation of
posterior reporting on each starting of the plant - in order to check the
operation mode as secondary reserve.
Monitoring System
19. During operation, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, solid particulates, carbon
monoxide, oxygen or carbon dioxide concentrations of the flue gas as well as temperature
and volume flow shall be monitored in the staclk Noise measurements will be made in
the smrounding villages. Operation of the oil trap shall be checked by soil sampling and
analyzing for oil on a monthly basis Measmed data shal be collected according to the
relevant regulations.
Environmental Impacts of Decommsioning
20.   Project life is 30 years. After shut-down equipment shall be disassembled and
tranWorted from the site. The dismounted macbine equipment can be recycled, the
underground concrete structures shall remain in place. No waste shall remain on-site.
21.   Expected decommissioning impacts are similar to those of the constrction
period. Only air pollution and noise caused by dismo-ntig activities and transportation
are to be considered. Neither negative impacts to surfice and subsurfice waters nor soil
contamination can be expected if decommissioning is performed carefully. The area
shall be restored and landscaped. However, curent land use cannot be restored.
Environmental Protection Measures
22.  In the case of oil fired gas turbines NO. emission reduction can be achieve either
by water injection in the combustion chamber or by appropriate buner construction (dry
low NO. burner) depending on the combuster/turbine desigo selected.
4



MVM RL HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.       QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
GAS TURBINE PLANT ATSAJ6SZOGED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
23.   To comply with the environmental rules, communal wastes shall be collected in a
closed reservoir and transported for disposal. Oil resistant tray at the oil racking st'tion
and under the pipelines shall prevent oil spills on the soil. Oily waters and oil spills from
the turbine shall be collected in an oil trap and cleaned in an oil separator. The separated
oil shall be collected and transported for burning or disposal.
24.   Noise protection shall be ensured by silencers, special sound insulation, and
casing.
25.   To prevent impacts of accidents which might occur during transportation and on
material movement routes traffic roads shall have a hard cover and pavements shall slope
towards the catch basin. Liquid material runoffs shall be collected in the above-
mentioned oil separator. Leakage of fuel shall immediately be explored by the
monitoring system maldng possible taldng the necessary measures without delay.
26.   For the case of earthquakes designing prescriptions of national standards shall be
taken into account and be supervised by licensing authorities.
27.   Fire protection regulations are also prescribed in detail in relevant official orders
and standards. In the case of fire extnguishing spread materials can contaminate the
soil. However, extension of that contamination can easily be delineated and the
decontamination be performed.
S



