Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20008
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 42050)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION
TO
HUNGARLAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.
FOR A QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
FEBRUARY 10, 2000
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 10, 2000)
Currency Unit = Hungarian Forint (HUF)
HUFI= US$ 0.004
US$ 1.0 = HUF247.67
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MVM                  -      Hungarian Power Companies
UCTE                 -      Union for Coordination of
Transmission of Electricity
IAS                  -      International Auditing Standards
ISO                  -      Independent System Operator
HEO                  -      Hungarian Energy Office
ICB                  -      lnternational Competitive Bidding
EMS/SCADA            -      Energy Management System/System Control
and Data Acquisition
EU                   -      European Union
NDC                  -      National Dispatch Center
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Roger Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:    Henk Busz
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Richard Hamrilton



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 4
6. Sustainability                                                                     5
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    7
9. Partner Comments                                                                   7
10. Additional Infornation                                                            7
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  8
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  9
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 11
Annex 4. Bank inputs                                                                 12
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievemnent of Objectives/Outputs of Conponents                13
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    14
Arunex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               15
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                     16
Map
IBRD 27991 - Hungary: Quick Start Gas Turbine Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P045251                                        Project Name: QUICK START GAS TURB
Team Leader: Richard E. Hamilton                           TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: February 10, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: QUICK START GAS TURB                              L/CNumber: 42050
Country/Department: HUNGARY                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: PD - Distribution & Transmission
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/26/96                                 Effective: 04/30/97           07/22/97
Appraisal:                                            MTR:
Approval:  06/25/97                                 Closing: 06/30/99            06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: MVM HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES/MVM HUNGARIAN POWER
COMPANIES
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Roger Grawe                                Hans J. Apitz (Acting Director)
Sector Manager:       Henk Busz                                 Harold E. Wackman
Team Leader at ICR:   Richard E. Hamilton                       Marc L. Heitner
ICR Primary Author:   Richard E. Hamilton; Anna
Bjerde; Dejan Ostojic
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=EHighly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Project was to provide about 200 MW of reserve generation capacity to enable
Hungary to maintain a level of reliability and security of supply in line with Westem European standards.
This objective was precise and realistic. It was also important since the reserve capacity was needed in
order for Hungary to meet the operating rules of the Union for Coordination of Production and
Transmission of Electricity (UCPTE, now UCTE). The project was the result of a request by the
Borrower, who also wished that it be as simple as possible. For this reason there was limited policy
conditionality.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of two complete single cycle gas turbine power plants rated at about 110
MW each, burning light distillate fuel oil. The plants comprised the following components:
Main Equipment
* Gas turbine and generator sets and auxiliaries, air inlet and exhaust gas systems, including stacks;
* Electrical equipment, as required to serve the plants' needs;
* Power plant control system;
* High-voltage switchgear and unit transformers, to connect the generator sets to the 120-kV system;
* Enclosures and light structure buildings to accommodate the gas turbine units and auxiliaries.
Auxiliary Systems
*   Fuel supply system, including unloading facilities, oil storage tanks, and pumping stations and piping;
*  Demineralized water supply for make-up cooling water and de-NOx system;
*   Water supply for fire extinguishing system;
*   Fire detection and protection system;
*  Telecommunications and remote control and indication systems.
Civil Works
*   Site preparation, levelling and earthwork;
*  Foundations for main equipment enclosures and buildings;
*   Foundations for auxiliary equipment and strategic tanks;
*  Roads and fences;
*   Site improvements, cable and piping channels and trenches.
Network and Infrastructure
*  Telecommunications link to integrate the plant with MVM's energy management system
(EMS/SCADA).
The components were precisely adapted to the project objectives. They were based on a feasibility study
completed in February 1995 by MVM with the help of local consultants, ERBE Energetika (an MVM
subsidiary at the time). This feasibility study was judged to be satisfactory by the Bank's appraisal team.
The land rights and major licenses needed for construction and to meet environmental requirements were
issued before Board presentation, thereby avoiding what might otherwise have been a major source of
delay. The main equipment supply and installation were packaged into a single-responsibility procurement
-2 -



contract for award on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). This approach simplifed
procurement procedures and enabled rapid project implementation. The single-responsibility contract was
financed by the Bank and accounted for 68% of the total cost. The remaining components were well within
the capabilities of local contractors and manufacturers and were to be financed by MVM. Based on
experience with earlier projects and on forecasts of MVM's financial performance, MVM was judged to
have the ability to finance the local costs.
3.4 Revised Components:
The actual gas turbines turned out to have a capacity of 123 MW each, which was within the 20% range
granted to bidders
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was highly satisfactory. The project accorded fully with a major objective of the
Government energy policy, namely to integrate the Hungarian power system with the UCTE, to ensure a
desirable level of security of supply at the lowest possible cost. The project was at an unusually advanced
stage of preparation at the time of Board presentation. The bidding documents for the main equipment
contract were issued on June 16, 1996 with a closing date on September 1, 1996. The contract was
awarded on May 7, 1997. The advanced state of preparation of the project enabled the gas turbines to be
operational within one year and four months after project effectiveness, well within the time schedule
agreed at appraisal.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project fully achieved it's main objective of providing about 240 MW of the secondary generation
reserve capacity which is available within approximately 10 minutes to temporarily substitute for
unexpected outages of generating capacity in the Hungarian power system. This increase of the secondary
generation reserve capacity enabled the Hungarian power grid to meet the requirements of the UCTE and to
become an associate member of the UCTE, completing the integration of the Hungarian power grid into the
western European electric power system.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project consists of two identical gas-turbine power plants located in Liter and Sajoszoged. Each plant
includes an open-cycle gas turbine with a rated capacity of 123 MW, generator, main transformer and
auxiliary equipment for operation of the power plant without staff/regular personnel (though with
supervision by the staff of the substation) and remote control from the National Dispatch Center. Both
plants are strategically located near major transmission substations where they can most effectively
perform their role of secondary generation reserve in the Hungarian power system. Based on the system
analysis, the number of expected annual starts per plant is about 10 (minimum 5 and maximum 60) and
operating time is no more than 2 hours per start.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic internal rate of return was estimated to be 15.5%, compared to 15.6% at the time of
appraisal. The two estimates are almost identical since the actual project costs and benefits are close to
what was forecast at the time of appraisal. Also, the method used by the Hungarian Energy Office (the
regulator) for recovering the costs of the two gas turbines through the electricity tariff remained the same.
This method allows MVM to recover the fuel and other operating and maintenance costs, the investment
costs and an eight percent rate of return on assets.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
-3 -



Since a financial rate of return was not calculated at the time of appraisal, no estimate was made for the
ICR
4.5 Institutional development impact:
After the first round of restructuring of the electric power industry (completed in 1996 before the start of
the Quick Start Gas Turbine Project) much of the power sector had been privatized, including all six
distribution companies and two power generating companies. Subsequently four other generating
companies were privatized. The State-owned MVM retains electricity transmission, the Paks nuclear
power plant, which supplies about 40% of Hungary's electricity requirements, three new gas turbine
generating plants (including those at Liter and Sajoszoged), and a 35% share in the Vertesi coal power
station. The Government's energy strategy (approved on July 27, 1999) foresees the merger of the power
dispatch centers of the electricity distributors and MVM into an independent system operator (1SO).
Following the establishment of the ISO, eligible consumers (those whose annual consumption exceeds 100
GWh) will be authorized to choose freely from which producer or trader they buy electricity. Also, power
exports and imports are to be determined on a negotiated rather than a regulated basis. Further
liberalization of the power market will require finding a way of dealing with the existing long-term supply
contracts, which cover about 90 percent of current electricity demand. In summary, the creation of the
ISO, partial opening of the electricity market to competition and strengthening of the regulator represent
significant developments in the power sector.
The financial performance of MVM improved significantly during the project implementation period and
MVM complied filly with all financial covenants in 1998 and is estimated to have done so also in 1999. In
1998, MVM turned profitable by generating a net profit of about HUF 2 billion (US$8.5 million
equivalent) and remained profitable in 1999. A key reason for the improved financial performance is the
increase in the average retail tariff in 1998 to HUF 12.34/kWh and an additional increase of 5.9% in 1999.
This allowed MVM to earn a 4.8% return on equity in 1998 and the full 8% stipulated in Government
Decree 63/1995 in 1999.
Targets were agreed under the project for the self financing ratio, the current ratio and debt service
coverage. The agreed targets and actual achievements are as follows:
| 1998 Covenant |1998 Actual          1999 Covenant 11999 Estimate
Self Flnancng     Not less than 40%       65%         Not less than 55%      101%
R atio_ _             _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _
Current Ratio      Not less than 1.0       1.4        Not less than 1.0       1.1
Debt Service         At least 1.5         12.2           At least 1.5         3.6
Coverage Ratio
In addition, MVM submitted unqualified audit reports in accordance with International Auditing Standards
(lAS) for the periods ending December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factors that affected the project were: (i) a stabilization of electricity demand (about 34.6 TWh
in 1997 and 1998) after a decline from the historic peak of 38.ITWh in 1989; and (ii) an increase in peak
load from 5,731 MW in 1997 to 5,817 MW in 1998. These developments left the need for the project
unchanged.
-4-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The main development subject to government control was Hungary's steady progress towards accession to
the EU. For the power sector, this involved steps towards liberalization. Some of these are described in
Section 4.5, including a plan to merge the power dispatch centers of the electricity distributors and MVM
into an ISO. In addition there is a plan to restructure MVM. MVM will become a holding company,
maintaining control over several daughter companies responsible for: (i) the Paks nuclear power plant; (ii)
three gas turbine power plants - those at Liter and Sajoszoged plus a third secondary reserve gas turbine
power plant at Lorinci; (iii) a power transmission company, and (iv) a transmission grid construction and
maintenance company. Shares in the holding company may be sold to private investors, but the State is
expected to maintain the majority shareholding, at least until Hungaryjoins the EU. Although most
existing power stations have been separated from MVM and privatized, the gas turbine power plants were
entrusted to MVM since it was thought that there would be little private sector interest in constructing
secondary generation reserve units that would be operated for only a short period of time each year. On the
basis of the existing licenses, MVM is not permitted to use these units for other purposes, such as to meet
peak detmand.
All companies in the power sector are subject to regulation by the Hungarian Energy Office (HEO). While
the Government retains responsibility for promulgating tariffs, their elaboration and application are under
the responsibility of HEO. In the electricity prices established on January 1, 1997, the HEO recognized the
forecast four-year average of the costs incurred by MVM in the construction of the three secondary reserve
power plants.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MVM impletmented the project through its Strategy and Development Division, which had local offices at
both project sites. This Division coordinated the work of main contractors and subcontractors efficiently
and contributed greatly to the timely completion of the project. Special attention was devoted to obtaining
environmental clearances for the project. MVM commissioned detailed environmental impact studies for
both project components, and held public hearings at Liter and Sajoszoged.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project cost, excluding duties and taxes, was US$79.5 million equivalent, of which US$52.9 million
was funded by the World Bank Loan and US$26.6 million was financed by MVM. These figures compare
to the appraisal estimates of US$96.1 million for the total cost and US$60 million for the Bank-financed
part. The unused portion of the World Bank Loan (US$7.1 million, which is less than the estimated project
contingencies) was canceled. The detailed project costs and financing are shown in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as highly likely. The gas turbines are operational and satisfactory arrangements
have been made for fuel supply and the operation and maintenance of the units (Section 6.2). The
regulated tariff for MVM provides for coverage of the investment and operating costs of the gas turbines
(Section 5.2). MVM's financial performance is satisfactory (Section 4.5). Should the need for the plants
for secondary reserve change (e.g., because of a change in UCTE requirements), they could be used as peak
load plants, but the licenses would need to be modified to allow the plants to be used for more than 120
hours of each year. The plant sites are large enough to allow the installation of steam cycle facilities. The
temperature of the flue gases would allow these gases to be used as energy for the steam cycle facilities,
thereby permitting the conversion of the plants to combined-cycle, if desired.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
-5-



MVM has established a unit of 6 persons within the Power Plants Department of the Projects Directorate to
supervise the operation of the gas turbines and to handle arrangements for tasks such as fuel purchase,
maintenance and environmental measures. OVIT Rt., a company owned by MVM, operates the gas
turbines. MVM has a 10 year maintenance agreement with the supplier of the main equipment (Alstom).
A list of agreements for fuel supply, operation and maintenance is in the Project File.
The indicators listed in Annex 1 are suitable for monitoring project operation. However, no furither
monitoring or other follow-up by the Bank would be needed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank responded promptly to MVM's request for financing, complied with the request to limit
conditionality (which was justified by Hungarys demonstrated success in restructuring and privatizing the
power sector, and establishing a regulatory framework that could be relied on to support the viability of the
implementing agency), and helped expedite procurement by arranging for the main equipment to be
procured through one single-responsibility procurement contract. The Staff Appraisal Report provided
excellent assessments of sector policy and of the implementing agency's capacity and financial
performance. The lending instrument was suitable and the size of the loan was realistic. The project
indicators were appropriate. Bank performance at the lending stage was highly satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The main contract was awarded at a price that was only 83% of the appraisal estimate. Once this contract
was awarded, supervision requirements were simple. MVM provided regular progress reports. Two
supervision missions were carried out over the implementation period of one year and a half and an ICR
mission was undertaken at the end of the implementation period. Supervision reports were realistic. One
significant accomplishment was to persuade MVM to produce accounts consistent with International
Accounting Standards. Bank performance during supervision was also satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
MVM's performance was highly satisfactory, especially since it carried out most of the preparation before
inviting the Bank to finance the project, including completing the feasibility study, which was fully
satisfactory, and doing most of the work towards obtaining land rights and the various licenses needed for
construction and to meet environmental requirements.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Govemment's implementation performance was satisfactory, as demonstrated by the granting of the
necessary licenses for the project in a timely manner. Satisfactory arrangements were made by the
Hungarian Energy Office to ensure that the cost of the project would be fully recoverable by the electricity
tariff, even though the gas turbines are expected to operate for only about 20 hours a year.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although MVM did not establish a formal Project lmplementation Unit, it carried out project
-6-



implementation efficiently and on schedule. MVM's financial performance improved significantly during
the project implementation period and in 1998 and 1999 MVM fully met all covenants. MVM's
performance is rated as highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated as highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project's success was due to the highly motivated commitment of MVM, which carried out much of the
preparation before requesting Bank financing, to the use of a turnkey procurement contract for the main
equipment, and to the absence of policy conditionality apart from standard financial covenants. The Bank
was able to support the project under these conditions because of Hungary's demonstrated success in
restructuring and privatizing the power sector, and in so doing was particularly responsive to the client's
expressed needs.
Other lessons are:
*  completing procurement prior to project effectiveness can greatly shorten the project implementation
period; and
o  dealing with highly committed, competent and experienced clients can greatly reduce costs to the Bank
of project preparation and supervision.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments were provided by the Borrower. MVM's own contribution is in Annex 8. MVM informed
the Bank in writing that the ICR is a "substantial, brief and correct summary and valuation of the
objectives, facts and the whole implementation."
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.
10. Additional Information
-7-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Average retail teaiff (Ft/kWh)        12.34(1998)
Self-financing ratio (%)              65(1998)                              65 (1998); 101 (1999)
Accounts receivable (days)            N/A                                   15 (1998); 15 (1999)
Cunent Ratio                          1.4(1998)                             1.4 (1998); 1.1 (1999)
Percentage of assets owned by private  N/A                                  57(1998)
sector
Share of private sector in generatin  N/A                                   56(1998)
Hours of training/staff/year                                                48.6(1998)
Output Indlcators:
Primary control range in % of rated plant    N/A                            5.2(1998)
capacity
Demand coverage at peak load, planned  112                                  111
reserves in % of system peak load
Primary conbol reserves in MW         N/A                                   460
Secondary contro reserves in MW       460                                   460
Units capable of isolated operation with own  N/A                           70
auxiliaries, in % of total uwits
End of proect



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Cnponent in US$ million  uivalen.
Mai6n Equipment                                      63.40           52.90        83.4
Auxiliary Systems                                      3.40           6.30       185.3
Civil Works                                           3.40           4.60        135.3
Engineering and Admmistration                         3.90           4.70        120.5
Other Costs                                           9.50           9.60        101.1
Total Baseline Cost                                   83.60          78.10
Physical Contingencies                               8.40
Price Contingencies                                  2.00
Total Project Costs              94.00          78.10
Interest during construction    2.10           1.40        66.70
Total Financing Required               96.10          79.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00         3.80         3.80
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    71.30         0.00         0.00         0.00        71.30
(60.00       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (60.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         0.00        4.40          4.40
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00        (0.00)
4. Auxiliary Systems        0.00          0.00         0.00         3.80         3.80
(0.00)      (0           (0.00         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Other (support services,  0.00         0.00         0.00        10.70        10.70
network modifications etc.)   (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    71.30         0.00         0.00        22.70         94.00
_   (60.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (60.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
R ~~~~~ _C                                               <~~rtI~6
1. Works                    0.00          0.00        0.00         4.60          4.60
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    52.90         0.00         0.00         0.00        52.90
(52.90) L    (0.00)   -   (0(0.)       (0.00)       (52.90)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        0.00         4.70          4.70
(0.00)      (0.00)   1   (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
9-



4. Auxiliary Systems            0.00           0.00          0.00           6.30           6.30
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Other (support services,     0.00           0.00          0.00           9.60           9.60
network modifications etc.)    (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        52.90          0.00          0.00          25.20          78.10
(52.90)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (52.90)
"Figures in parenthesis are the anounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
l                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Ap raisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank     Govt.      CoF.     Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Main Equipment          60.00      11.30     0.00     52.90      0.00      0.00     88.2   0.0    0.0
Auxilary Systems         0.00      3.80      0.00      0.00      6.30      0.00     0.0   165.8   0.0
Civil Works              0.00      3.80      0.00      0.00      4.60      0.00     0.0   121.1   0.0
Engineering and          0.00      4.40      0.00      0.00      4.70      0.00     0.0   106.8   0.0
Administration
Other Costs              0.00      10.70     0.00      0.00      9.60      0.00     0.0   89.7   0.0
IDC                      0.00      2.10      0.00      0.00      1.40      0.00     0.0   66.7   0.0
-10-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis
Appraisal    Latest
Estimates
Benefits(iFt Million)      2,662         2,504
Costs (HFt Million)        398           461
Net Benefits (HFt Million)    1,978      1,773
IRR                         15.6%        15.5%
Since financial estimates were not made at appraisal they were not done for the ICR
- 11 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
2) Missions:
. ... ...   .. .  ..  .f  .     ..         .....                        .          . ..     .l
~~~~~~~~~~~..........                                       .. ..,.   d         W    .    EEE:
i:.'.''': E i': '': ...:''-:'T:#.''............,  ............                              jg                             Dir?B)  S.
.. .EEE   E   E(            .   2..... ..                                                                            ...........   . ... S. e c.) .m.tat.......o ...
MointhY-ar:            - ou.    t . ......ss O-I ee .
Identification/Preparation                                3    1. Financial  nalyst
Preparation/                                      2. Power Engineer
Preapprais:                                       3. Energy Economist
04/96
Appraisal/Negotiation
Negotiations:                            3    1. Financial Analyst
01/97                                             2. Power Engineer
3. Energy Economist
Supervision
04/98                                   3   1. Financial Analyst                                          HS                             HS
2. Environmental Specialist
3. Power Engineer
10/98                                   3   1. Energy Economist                                                                          HS
2. Enviromnental Specialist
3. Power Engineer
ICR
07/99                                    3    1. Energy Economist                                           HS                            HS
2. Power Engineer
3. Financial Analyst
(b) Staff:
S          of,Proect Cycle:                                         A,,,al/:C.  Latest Esimae-
. .... ...   ..   -    .     !  .. ..................   ... . .   .   .  !.............. 
iS iEE ~~~~~~~~. .           .EE.  Ei i...iiE  E iE...   ER    M   XH ..    ...........   . ....   i C E-Ei 0S.E()-i0id S. i -
Identification/Preparation                                          29.7                                          112.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                10.2                                          37.1
Supervision                                                         17.6                                           64.4
ICR                                                                   1.3                                            5.9
Total                                                               58.8                                         220.3
- 12-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies
02 Sector Policies
O Physical                                   OH OSUOM ON ONA
0 Financial                                  * 1 OSUOM ON ONA
0 Institutional Development
0 Environmental
Social
0 Poverty Reduction
[ Gender
0 Other (Please specify)
0 Private sector development
0 Public sector management
0 Other (Please specify)
- 13 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisictory, HU=-Iighly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
Z Lending                                          *HSOS  OU  OH'U
F Supervision                                      OHJS*S   O U  OH'U
Z Overall                                          OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                     *O S OS  OU  O HU
E Government implementation performance            O HS   S  O U  0 HU
OI] lmplementation agency performance              O MS O S  O U  O HU
[ Overall                                         *O S OS  0 U  0 HU
-14 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Future Operation and Prospects of the Quick Start Gas Turbine Project, MVM, June 1999.
2. Appendices to the Borrower's contribution.
3. Economic lnternal Rate of Return Calculation.
-15 -



>Iungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report  4205-H
SHORT SUMMARY
of the
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
on Loan Agreement No. 4205-HU dated July 2, 1997 between
the World Bank and the Hungarian Power Companies Ltd.
for the part financing of the
Quick Start Gas Turbine Project
Prepared by the
Technical Division of Hungarian Power Companies Ltd.
Budapest, July 1999
- 16 -



tigarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report                     4205-HQ
Implementation Completion Report
Quick Start Gas Turbine Project
Table of Contents
1.  PRELIMINARIES, PROJECT OBJECTIVES ................................ I1
2. PROCUREMENT .................................2
2.1   Supply and installation of the main equipment (Package "F') ............................................2
2.2   Site preparation and other civil works (Package "A") ...........................................3
2.3   Service facilities (package "B") ...........................................3
2.4   Completion works ....3.......................................3
2.5  Insurance ............................................3
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                   ..3
3.1 Packaage "A.3
3.2 Package "F'                                     .3
3.3 Package "B                                      .4
4. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION                                    .4
5. EXPERIENCES                                       ..4
5.1   Preparation ............................5
5.2  Design ............................5
5.3   Project management and administration ...........................S5
5.4   Manufacturing and procurement ...6........................6
5.5   Construction ...........................                                           6
5.6  Installation ...........................6
5.7   Comnnissioning ...........................6
5.8   Measurements of guaranteed parameters ...........................6
6.  FINANCING..7
7. KEEPING CONTACTS WITH THE BANK - THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE                      ..8
8. MAJOR IMPACTS ON THE PROJECTS                                ..8
9. MAJOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROJECT                              ..9
10. REQUIREMENTS FOR FUTURE LEGITIMACY OF THE PROJECT                       . .            9
11. EVALUATION OF MVM Rt. OF ITS OWN ROLE IN THE PROJECT   . .10
12. FUTURE OPERATION AND PROSPECTIVES OF THE PROJECT   .                 .10
13. SUIMM..A.RY.                                                                          11
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A  PROJECT SCHEDULE
APPENDIX B  PROCUREMENT
APPENDIX C  ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION
APPENDIX D  GUARANTEE MEASUREMENT
APPENDIX E  FINANCIAL TABLES
APPENDIX F  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
APPENDIX G  PHOTOS
APPENDIX H  PR MATERIALS






"ungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report              4205-H
1.    PRELIMINARIES, PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objective of the project was to establish two quick start gas turbine power plants with approx. 100
MW capacity each, as secondary reserve plants to the Hungarian Power System. Secondary reserve is
required on the one hand for the safe operation of the power system, and on the other it was a precon-
dition to UCPTE membership. With the commissioning of the two gas turbine power plants the project
successfully completed its objective.
As a first step, Hungary established 100 kV local cooperating transmission lines with the neighbor
countries then, by constructing 220 kV, 400 kV and 750 kV transmission lines and substations, it be-
came an important player in the cooperating power system of the entire Eastern European region,
while performing regular power exchange in island operation with Yugoslavia and Austria.
During this period - parallel with the Eastern system - the cooperating system of the Western-
European countries, the UCPTE (Union pour la Coordination de la Production et due Transport de
l'Electricite) was formed using increasingly more modern and efficient operational methods.
Due to the political changes at the end of the eighties and the problems arisen in the power system of
the Eastern European countries resulting from the economical breakdown of the Soviet Union, the
management of the Hungarian Power Companies launched negotiations on the conditions of joining
the UCPTE. Very soon the Czech, Slovak and Polish power companies also joined in the negotiations.
On October 12, 1992 an agreement was made on the conditions of joining between the relevant com-
panies of UCPTE and the four Eastern European companies.
The sudden power shortages resulting from any failure in, or damage to, the transmission grid of the
UCPTE member countries or arising from unforeseen increase in the customers demand are met by the
international system over the few minutes following the event. Then the system, where the operational
failure occurred, shall arrange for the elimination of shortage.
The member countries shall ensure secondary generation control reserve for the event they loose their
largest capacity power plant unit. In Hungary this corresponds to the 460 MW reactor unit of the Paks
Nuclear Power Plant.
One condition for Hungary's joining the UCPTE was to ensure control of its own power system and
the quick elimination of the loss of capacity(ies).
The Hungarian Power Companies Ltd. (hereinafter MVM Rt.) wanted to comply with this requirement
within a short time by constructing so called secondary reserve gas turbine power plants and using, in
addition, part of the so-called spinning reserve capacity of the units operating in the system for this
purpose.
Therefore the task of the secondary reserve power plants is to provide generating capacity for reserve
purposes, starting from standby mode and by fast load-up, until the loss of capacity is eliminated by
the system (e.g. by starting other units).
The objective of the commenced quick start gas turbine (secondary reserve) project was to implement
the secondary reserve capacity, a precondition of joining, by the anticipated date of joining, but latest
by the end of 1998, in parallel with the satisfaction of the other requirements.
In 1993 the Board of MVM Rt. decided on the establishment of the approx. 200 MW quick start gas
turbine capacity. The objective of the project was the implementation of this decision. On November 2
and 3, respectively, MVM Rt. commissioned the two power plants, each with 120 MW capacity. As a
1



Oungarian Power Comparnes Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report             4205-HU
recognition of MVM Rt.'s meeting its obligations, UCPTE adopted MVM Rt. as an associated mem-
ber on October 27, 1998. (New members in UCPTE have the associated member status for a certain
period.)
2.    PROCUREMENT
MVM Rt.'s Management approved the Liter and Saj6sz6ged Quick Start (secondary reserve) Gas Tur-
bine Project in March, 1996.
Based on Government Decree 2058/1996 (III. 13), negotiations between the World Bank (hereinafter
"the Bank') and MVM Rt. started on the financing of the project in April 1996 and were successfully
completed with the signing of the loan agreement on July 2 1997.
The project procurement procedure was implemented as follows:
2.1   Supply and installation of the main equipment (Package "F")
The Bidding Document on the implementation of the main technological systems of the Quick Start
Gas Turbine Power Plants was elaborated according to the Bank guidelines. The following equipment
and technological systems were covered by the main technological package of the Liter and Sa-
j6szdged Quick Start Gas Turbine Project:
- gas turbine(s) + generator(s),
- all supplementary and auxiliary equipment of the gas turbine-generator unit,
-  main and auxiliary transformer(s),
- cable, or transmission line interconnection between the power station and the substation,
- implementation of a complete 120 kV substation bay,
- complete control and instrumentation system.
The Bidding Document specified for the above listed equipment and systems the design, site erection
and commissioning, and the construction of buildings and structures housing the equipment and tech-
nological systems, as well as performance of the related civil engineering works.
The Bank issued its no objection on the Bidding Document on June 4, 1996 and which was started to
be sold in June 1996 and purchased by thirty firms.
On September 16, 1996, bids were submitted by seven (7) companies.
The technical, financial and commercial evaluation of Bids was conducted according to the earlier
defined evaluation rules fully observing the Bank Procurement Procedures and developed on the basis
of the bid evaluation criteria.
The Evaluation Report on the result of evaluation was sent by MVM Rt. to the Bank on March 24,
1997.
The Bank granted its no objection in its letter of May 5, 1997.
On May 14, 1997, contract negotiations were started with the most successful Bidder, the European
Gas Turbine S.A. (EGT). As a result of the negotiations, on July 9, 1997 MVM Rt. and EGT signed a
contract for the turn-key supply of the main equipment of 2 pieces gas turbine power plants.
On the basis of the draft maintenance agreement invited as an optional item, MVM Rt. signed a main-
tenance agreement with European Gas Turbine S.A. for an operational period of 10 years.
2



Iungarian Power Compar es Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report               4205-HU
2.2    Site preparation and other civil works (Package "A")
Due to the "green-field" construction of power stations, utilities, infrastructure and mobilization fa-
cilities had to be constructed. MVM Rt. decided to fully perform these tasks to meet the very strict
requirements of the project time schedule and to provide prepared sites with utilities for the main con-
tractors.
In the spring of 1997, MVM Rt. selected the contractors in two-stage bidding procedure. During the
bidding procedure MVM Rt. expressed its preference for employing local contractors.
This bidding procedure was closed on April 3, site preparation works and other civil works were
awarded to 5 contractors in Lit6r and to 6 contractors in Saj6szoged.
The contractors included local small contractors and local representations of national corporate enter-
prises.
2.3   Service facilities (Package "B")
The procurement of the service (or auxiliary) facilities including the facilities for the reception and
storage of the gas turbine fuel, production and treatment of the demineralized water required for the
reduction of the NO, emission and the power station firewater system was conducted in a single re-
sponsibility contract. The contract based on bids invited from Hungarian companies was awarded to
EGI Rt., and was signed on September 12, 1997.
2.4    Completion works
Parallel with the commissioning works, the final landscaping of the work area, re-cultivation of the
mobilization area and gardening works started. These works which did not hinder the facility's opera-
tion but which were necessary for finally forming the environment of the power plant, were completed
in the spring of 1999. The relevant contract was concluded with a firm rendering these services during
the construction works.
2.5   Insurance
Pursuant to the Bank's requirements, overall insurance had to be taken out for the construction-
erection works during the construction period. MVM Rt. concluded this contract for the entire power
plant with AHUCO insurance company, selected as the best bidder in a bidding procedure. The indi-
vidual main contractors shared the insurance costs according to the relevant agreements made.
3.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1    Package "A"
Jobs performed within the framework of the package: rough leveling of site, formation of the work
sites of packages F and B, internal roads, road lighting, provisional power supply for mobilization,
mobilization areas for the placement of office containers and storage of goods, external final and tem-
porary fences and gates and office building for the project management staff.
Thus the sites and the mobilization facilities were ready for the suppliers of main packages by the
scheduled date, that is September 1, 1997.
3.2    Package "F"
EGT started design and manufacturing works in July, and the supply of documentation was started in
August. First, documentation necessary for the construction license were completed, then the founda-
tion drawings were delivered. In September the civil works subcontractor, the Belgian CFE-Hungary
started to excavate the working pits and perform soil reinforcement with different Hungarian subcon-
3



aungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report              4205-HX
tractors at both sites. It was followed by placing the formwork and the reinforcement of the founda-
tions and the pouring of concrete.
The foundation works and the reinforced concrete protective walls of transformers were completed at
both sides in January 1998. The manufacture of gas turbines started in August in the Belfort factory of
ALSTOM. Final assembly of the generators, manufactured in England, was also done there. Com-
pleted gas turbines were put under factory firing tests.
The main equipment for both sites was shipped mainly by water, road transport was used only for the
last section.
At both sites, the experts of MONTIVO Kft. performed the assembly of main equipment, smaller and
larger elements and containers on their foundations. It was them who assembled the flue gas duct,
installed the elements of silencer, then erected the 51 m high chimney. Steel structures arrived at the
site on truck, disassembled to their elements.
A subcontractor of EGT, OVIT Rt. completed the design of the substation bay and the connections
between the substation and the power plant. The main contractor for the service package contracted
them for the majority of electric installation items as well.
The generator voltage circuit breaker was manufactured by GEC ALSTHOM, the encased bus bar
connecting the generator and the transformer by the Polish HOLDUCT. The main transformer of
GANZ ANSALDO was also installed, although with some delay.
3.3    Package "B"
The installation of auxiliary facilities also started in September 1997. The subcontractors of EGI com-
pleted the equipment foundations in both places, then built the pump house providing room for the
pumps of the fuel oil system, the water treating unit as well as the firewater pumps. The control rooms
of the service facilities were also established here.
Fuel is stored in 2 tanks with a capacity of 1000 m3 each, complete with reinforced concrete contain-
ment walls, rigid roof and internal floating roof. 2 tanks with a capacity of 300 m3 each were built for
the water necessary for injection and an underground tank with a capacity of 400 m3 was constructed
for the storage of firewater. All these facilities were ready by June 1998 at both sites.
4.    ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION
The competent Environmental Authorities approved the preliminary then the detailed environmental
impact studies for both sites. Prior to the issue of the environmental licenses the population of the af-
fected settlements discussed the studies in public hearings. During the implementation of the project
MVM Rt. strictly complied with the requirements of the environmental licenses.
After the reliability test of the plant measurement of guaranteed parameters was performed to prove
compliance with the requirements and limits set by the competent authorities. (Measurement results
are enclosed as Appendix C.)
The results prove that both plants fully meet the requirements.
5.    EXPERIENCES
From technical, financing, organizing and management points of view, the project was implemented
without any problems. The power plants were completed within the specified time limit and at a cost
lower than estimated. The two power plants are available for the power system at the required level,
have an esthetic appearance and fit into their environment.
4



Oungarian Power Companies Ltd  Implementation Completion Report             4205-H1f
Experiences gained during the construction can be summarized as follows.
5.1   Preparation
During the public information program on the construction of the power plant MVM Rt. managed to
establish a good relationship with local communities and their mayors and local government agencies.
In both locations, the inhabitants followed the construction with interest, participated in open days and
joined the inauguration celebrations. For these occasions MVM Rt. prepared publications in Hungar-
ian and English that were distributed among the attendants (see Appendix H).
The bidding procedure of the project facilities by job packages was successful since the individual
contractors took on responsibility for the implementation of well-defined and complete construction
packages. The undisturbed performance of work was ensured by the preparation of the sites and the
thoughtful and timely installation of mobilization facilities.
5.2    Design
The 14-month delivery time for package "F" put a heavy burden on the designers preparing the con-
struction documentation (licensing and detailed documentation). The task was made difficult by Hun-
garian regulations, unknown for the contractor until then, and the known slow administration of
authorities.
MVM Rt. faced difficulties by the irregular delivery of documentation and by being forced to evaluate
incomplete documentation packages.
Despite the difficulties, plans were coordinated and MVM Rt.'s demands were enforced, and the con-
tractor met the documentation delivery requirements undertaken in the contract.
As it has been indicated in the interim reports, the delay in the delivery of documentation causing a
temporary delay occurred only in the field of C & I systems. Electric plans were not completed ac-
cording to the schedule, but it did not cause a delay in the construction.
There was no delay in the delivery of mechanical documentation. The document delivery allowed an
implementation according to the construction schedule and facilitated technical supervision.
5.3   Project management and administration
The projects meant the construction of two "green-field" power plants at the same time. To manage
the project, MVM Rt. Project Development and Investment Department formed a five-person project
management team under the Head of Department. This team successfully performed the jobs of project
management, administration, as well as technical and fmancial management.
Acting as general designer, ETV-ER6TERV Rt. was successful in the design of general plans, the
revision of main contractor plans and the compilation of final system-wide operational instructions.
During the implementation, the tasks of ERBE Power Engineering & Consulting Ltd., acting as the
Project Engineer, included the approval of technical documentation, the factory tests, technical super-
vision of site works, the supervision and coordination of commissioning and the execution of guaran-
tee measurements, which they completed successfully.
During the implementation phase a monthly time schedule updating and reporting procedure was used,
which supported the timely performance of the necessary checks and operation tests in the period of
commissioning. The careful preparation of the work sites and the technical inspection performed dur-
ing the time of installation ensured an orderly state, order and cleanness during the entire time of con-
struction and commissioning.
5



Iungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report             4205-H
Hungarian engineering offices involved in the project by MVM Rt. performed their jobs successfully,
there was no need to hire foreign engineering offices.
5.4    Manufacturing and procurement
Manufacturing took place according to the schedule; the quality of equipment delivered was in line
with the contract specifications. Factory in-process tests set forth in the contract took place during
manufacturing, detected faults and deviations from the design were corrected by the manufacturers.
5.5    Construction
The construction was completed at both sites in proper quality and within the specified time, with the
participation of Hungarian contractors (subcontractors), although in some cases several deficiencies
were recorded. Final landscaping and the demolition of mobilization facilities have been completed
recently together with the above mentioned deficiencies.
5.6   Installation
Similarly to the construction tasks, site installation was performed by Hungarian contractors under the
supervision of main contractors based on documentation prepared by the main contractors. The French
Main Contractor used a staff of 15 on each site, but permanent attendance did not exceed 5-6 persons.
5.7    Commissioning
Commissioning was performed by the experts of the two main contractors (ALSTOM and EGI Rt.)
with the involvement of the experts of MVM Rt. and the technical personnel of the Operator, based on
previously agreed commissioning plans and schedules. During commissioning, both the individually
and at a system tests of the equipment proved that the power plants meet the technical requirements.
The required inspections and tests were performed successfully, in the presence of authorities' repre-
sentatives, as required.
The commissioning of the higher level control and information technology data management part of
the C & I system took longer than expected due software modification needs. Some checking, logging,
etc. functions were being set also during reliability tests.
The equipment passed reliability test successfully, but the elimination of some smaller defects (pri-
marily in the C & I system) was delayed into the guarantee period as a deficiency to be eliminated
under guarantee.
5.8    Measurements of guaranteed parameters
The measurements of guaranteed parameters were performed by MVM Rt.'s experts according to the
measurement plan agreed with the contractors and with the participation of their representatives.
During the measurements, some data (primarily the specification of the fuel calorific value and the
calibration of flow meter) needed rechecking. The agreed and jointly accepted measurement report
proved that the performance, efficiency, emission and other data of both power plants satisfy the func-
tional guarantee values specified in the Contract. The units met the 10-minute starting time with auto-
matic start in remote operation. Both gas turbines reach base load within 9.5 minutes.
The annual values for the reliability of starting and the availability of the power plants specified in the
Contract are being evaluated and their final evaluation will be performed at the end of the two-year
guarantee period.
Measurement results are set forth in Appendix D.
6



Pungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report              4205-H
6.    FINANCING
The estimated cost of the implementation of the Quick Start Gas Turbine Project was USD 96.1 mil-
lion, without custom duties and taxes, which contained the physical and price contingencies. Costs
were estimated at 1996 price level. Estimated costs are summarized in Appendix E.
To complement the planned Bank loan of USD 60 million to finance the entire project, MVM Rt.
planned the balance of costs from its own funds in HUF, as shown in the table of procurement proc-
esses in Appendix E.
The procurement, installation, construction works and commissioning of the gas turbine/generator
units and the unit transformers necessary for the entire 120 kV substation, the protection systems and
circuit breakers were planned to be financed from the Bank loan. MVM Rt. used its own resources for
the preparation of the construction site, the implementation of the auxiliary service facilities (oil sys-
tem, firewater system, demineralized water system), the establishment of network and infrastructure,
furthermore the general design of the power plants, the engineering services, and the necessary service
and administration tasks and all other tasks necessary for the completion of the power plants.
In line with the breakdown of the financing resources, for the Bank financed part of the Project, i.e. for
the main equipment, international competitive bidding was used as procurement procedure, based on
the 1995 Guidelines of the Bank, and for the part financed from local funds contractors were selected
on the basis of the guidelines of MVM Rt. 's Code of Competition. This ensured resulted in the most
advantageous technologies and best prices within the limits of the competition.
From the 7 bids received in the ICB, the contract for the installation and commissioning of the main
technology equipment was awarded to the French EGT (Alstom) evaluated as the most successful
bidder, for the amounts of FRF 287,105,000 and USD 4,370,000 to be covered from the proceeds of
the Bank loan. This amount includes the price of spare parts to be supplied.
The French company shipped the overwhelming majority of equipment from abroad (France), but
some equipment (e.g. fire protection) was shipped from Hungary, and civil works (foundations,
trenches, buildings) and installation jobs were performed by Hungarian contractors based on agree-
ments concluded with EGT (Alstom). These vendors' deliveries and services were subject to VAT
payment pursuant to Hungarian regulations which was duly settled.
In the main contracting contract concluded with the French contractor the date of shipments and in-
stallation works, as well as prices allocated to them were fixed. Payment instructions to the Bank were
made on the basis of contractor's invoices submitted at completion.
Pursuant to contracts concluded with EGT, a total of USD 52,920,900.41 has been transferred in the
annual break down shown in the following table.
Bank financial  Half-year  Forecast annual   Actual
year                   USD million   USD million
1997        first           0            0
second          6            0
1998        first          14           30.5
second         30           18.8
1999        first          10           3.6
Total                       60          52.9
The actual project costs for the entire project are shown in Appendix E, which contains estimated costs
as well, together with the annual breakdown of disbursement compared to estimated costs.
7



Iungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report            4205-I[1
Upon the completion of the project it can be stated that from the loan of USD 60 million requested,
52.9 million was actually used, entirely for the procurement of main equipment. The total value of
works of construction preparation, the implementation of service facilities, engineering services and
other services amounts to USD 19.6 million. The total cost of the project, including interest paid dur-
ing the construction and the change in the exchange rates, was USD 79.5 million. This is 16.6 million
less than the estimated figure.
The lowest bid for main equipment financed from the Bank loan was USD 7.1 million less than the
loan received and 2.2 million less than costs estimated without contingencies.
In general, it can be stated that all estimated base cost forecasts were well substantiated, the effect of
calculated and considered risks was in the right direction, thus no contingencies were used.
7.    KEEPING CONTACTS WITH THE BANK - THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
At the Bank review meetings/missions of 1996-1997, not only the afterlife of closed project (2697-
HU) and the monitoring of ongoing projects (3705-HU) were discussed, but also the potential devel-
opments projects of MVM Rt., including the implementation and financing of the secondary reserve
power plant(s), still in the planning stage. The Bank showed interest in the financing and, after brief
negotiations, the loan agreement was concluded (with government guarantee). Thus, the Bank has
continually monitored activities related to the project right from the planning stage.
Following the first preparatory steps, the bidding document was completed. It was reviewed by the
Bank in record breaking time, and bidding procedure started. The bids were evaluated according to the
guidelines of the Bank, almost simultaneously with the negotiation stage of the loan agreement. The
award of the contract, the contractual negotiations and implementation after contract execution took
not more than two years. Over these periods the Bank proved maximal readiness to support and flexi-
bility. MVM Rt. continually informed the Bank on the implementation of the project in the form of
reports, which were accepted by the Bank. In addition, two site missions per year were held. The
members of the mission always expressed their satisfaction with their findings.
The Quick Start Gas Turbine Project is one of the Bank financed projects with quickest preparations,
that was implemented within the specified time and cost limits, with a short construction period. The
objectives were achieved without fail.
The relation ship between the Hungarian Power Companies Ltd. and the Bank has been a good busi-
ness relationship based on the cooperation of two independent parties.
8.    MAJOR IMPACTS ON THE PROJECTS
In the preparation period of the project (in 1994) elections were held in Hungary which resulted in the
change of the government and changes in the Board and top management of MVM Rt., too. The new
management, however, quickly realized the importance of the project and supported it.
The evaluation of the main technology required a period longer than planned. This was caused by the
fact that three bidders had proposed the same turbine type (GE Frame 9) and for two of the three bids
the price difference had been very small, too.
The quick decision of the Bank in support of the project helped the timely implementation of the proj-
ect, for only a couple of weeks after the resolution of the Hungarian Government in March 1996
authorizing the commencement of the loan negotiations the Bank's credit review was completed and
in July 1997 the loan agreement between the Bank and MVM Rt. was signed.
8



Iungarian Power ComPanies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report             4205-Ht
Relationship with the communities affected by the project progressed favorably. In the public hearing
MVM Rt. were successful in convincing the majority of the residents that the environmental impact of
the power plants using state-of-the-art technology would be minimal, so they were in support of the
construction, rather than against it. At both sites MVM Rt. supported the infrastructure improvement
efforts of the local municipalities.
The construction phase of the project was very fast. Site works, including site preparation, took a pe-
riod of merely 18 months, so the load on environment by the construction was only for a very limited
period. Relation with authorities had been good all along. Parallel with the project the implementation
of other tasks related to joining UCPTE had made good progress, too.
9.    MAJOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROJECT
-  The power plants shall be in operation in 14 monthsffrom the transfer of the advance payment:
* contract was signed on July 9, 1997,
* reliability test was completed on September 16, 1998;
-  The nominal capacity of the plants connected to the transmission grid shall be available in 10
(ten) minutesfrom the start order:
With quick start the gas turbines can be connected to the grid in 8.5 minutes and reach their
base load (123 MW at +15 C) in 9.5 minutes;
- They shall be of automatic operation not requiring operating personnel:
The plants do not have permanent operating personnel. They are located next to transmission
grid substations and part of the substation personnel received training making them capable of
supervising plant operation;
-  The plants shall have remote start capability
After the commissioning of the new SCADA-EMS system of MVM Rt., part financed from a
former loan of the World Bank, the plants will have remote start capability from the National
Dispatching Center in Budapest;
-  The plants shall meet Hungarian environmental requirements and standards
In the Invitation for Bids MVM Rt. put special emphasis on the environmental requirements of
the authorities and MVM Rt. required the main contractors to comply with these. A water in-
jection system was installed to reduce NO., flue gas emissions are monitored by a modem
measuring system audited by the authorities and acoustic walls were installed as required;
Based on the above it can be stated that the project met all requirements.
10.   REQUIREMENTS FOR FUTURE LEGITIMACY OF THE PROJECT
The objective of the project was to establish part of the secondary reserve capacity the Hungarian
Power System was required to have. The commissioning of the two open cycle gas turbine plants
enabled the Hungarian Power System to become an associated member of UCPTE. As long as
UCPTE requires its members to provide compulsory secondary reserve, the two plants will be
available for this purpose. Should the requirements change, the plants could be used as peak load
plants. In this case the authority licenses will need modification (with regard to annual service
hours) and it will be practical to increase the fuel storage capacity. The capacity fee of the plants
is comparable with those of other Hungarian power plants. Should therefore the requirements of
UCPTE change or should the system operator of the liberalized market not need the domestic
secondary reserves, these power plants are competitive as peaking plants. Both sites have the ex-
tension capability and the temperature of leaving flue gases allows the installation of steam cycle,
too, so the resulting combined cycle plants could operate with high degree of utilization for a long
period.
9



Oungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report             4205-
11. EVALUATION OF MVM RT. OF ITS OWN ROLE IN THE PROJECT
The management of MVM Rt. assigned project management to its own organization, to the Project
Development and Investment Department of the Directorate for Strategy and Development. The five-
person project management team lead by the department head had the task of project preparation, su-
pervision of implementation and organizing the various phases of the project. The management team
successfully performed the organizing, supervising, technical and financial management tasks of the
project.
Prior to the project MVM Rt. had had no experience in power plant project management, only in su-
pervision, so this was a brand new role. The timely implementation of the project within the allocated
budget proves that the organization was successful.
The work of the project management was efficiently supported by other MVM Rt. organizations, like
the Financial Department and the Accounting Department. Organization of the training of the super-
vising staff and their preparation for the maintenance of the plants was taken care by a team formed
within the System Technology Department.
Partner companies involved in project management, like ERBE Power Engineering Ltd. acting as
Project Engineer and ETV-EROTERV Rt. as General Designer were successfiul in their respective
roles.
Splitting the various parts of the works into packages and the bidding and evaluation steps were also
successful.
Permanent site offices with a low personnel stuffs were operated at both sites, with the representatives
of MVM Rt., the Project Engineer and the General Designer. This ensured the coordination of local
construction and installation works and the technical inspection of the work by the contractors.
Planned preparation and timely availability of infrastructure allowed cleanliness and order in the proj-
ect sites all over the construction period.
Relationship with banks was proper, no delay penalties, etc. were incurred.
The management of MVM Rt. and the Project Management Team were successful. The plants com-
pleted prove, in addition to the successful work of the Project Management Team, the expertise of the
technical and financial experts of the Project Development and Investment Department and the right
approach of MVM Rt. as a whole.
12.   FUTURE OPERATION AND PROSPECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
The two power plants - build under the scope of this Loan Agreement - are and will be operated ac-
cording to the objectives, as secondary reserves.
MVM Rt. entered into an Operational Agreement with OVIT Rt., the operator of the transformer sub-
station, on the operation of the gas turbine power plants. A small independent organization was
formed within OVIT for the management of the trained operator/supervisory staff.
MVM Rt. established a department with a staff of 6 to supervise the operation of the power plants, to
attend operative tasks (supervision of the power plants, fuel purchase, attending environmental tasks,
organizing maintenance, etc.). This department is part of MVM Rt.'s current organization, within the
Power Plant Subdivision of the Technical Division.
On the basis of the optional quote part of the original bid, MVM Rt. entered into a long term (10 year)
Maintenance Agreement with the supplier of the main equipment.
The monitoring of the equipment conditions and the processing of the data in the maintenance center
of Alstom made it practical to install a telediagnostic system. The system was delivered and installed
within the frame of the main contract.
10



Oungarian Power Companies Ltd.  Implementation Completion Report              4205-
MVM Rt. entered into a maintenance agreement with the service company of MVM Rt. for the daily
maintenance of the power plants. Other services are provided on the basis of agreements entered into
with the various manufacturers.
In the prices established on January 1, 1997 the HEO recognized the four-year average of the costs
incurred by MVM Rt. in the construction of the secondary reserve power plants (Liter, Sajoszoged,
Lorinci). The annual capital investment cost, covering the repayment of loans taken out for the proj-
ects, the interests on such loans and the eight per cent return on assets granted by the law, was estab-
lished in the amount of HUF 3,700 million. Operation, maintenance and fuel costs account for HUF
972 million per annum, so the total recognized cost is HUF 4,672 million. The amounts recognized by
the Hungarian Energy Office are for the three plants.
The values pertaining to the quick start gas turbine plants of Saj6szoged and Liter, with 120 MW ca-
pacity each, are as follows:
Capacity fee:       9,250.- HUF/kW/a
Capacity fee:       2,220.- HUF million
Operational cost:     583.- HUF million
At the time of the 1997 price adjustment HEO instructed MVM Rt. to submit the actual costs of in-
vestment and operation of the quick start gas turbines after commissioning the L6rinci Power Plant in
the course of the price adjustment of the year 2000.
MVM will continue to monitor in the future the performance indicators (see Appendix F) established
by the Bank.
13.   SUMMARY
The final evaluation of the implementation of the Quick Start Gas Turbine Project is: verv successful.
The construction was completed at lower costs than planned, within the projected 14 months, with no
material problems and satisfying technical, financial, and environmental requirements and regulations.
Relationship with the Bank during the work was good, no problems arose at either party.
The cooperation between the MVM Rt. and the main contractors was also appropriate. This also
stands for the 6 months of the guarantee period passed so far. What is more, ALSTOM appointed a
Guarantee Engineer to ease communication and quick troubleshooting.
With their coordinated work, the MVM Rt. and its Hungarian Engineering Offices were successful to
manage the "green-field" project implemented in two locations.
The project is the best example for successful Hungarian projects part financed by the Bank and im-
plemented in the shortest time.
11






IBRD 27991
16'                                                                  HUNGARY                                                    20'                                   . .                       22'-
QUICK START GAS TURBINE PROJECT                                                                         '            N'                                               KRIN
H id--e~ti                                    UKAN
O A TURBINES TO BE
INTALLED UNDER PROJECT                             71 VT
- OER PLANT                                           40k
my,                             N'~~~~~~~~~~~---- ----   6I,      k
C      'tOMARCAP~~~~~~~~~~~                           St.                   -,            "             r  ~~~~~~~~~~ .i ~~~BEREG 
4'                 'Bo
AUSTRIA        4~~~~-    9
'-4.                                               '       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16                                                                             IA
I                                                                                                            A,.,eopd.noIiopIy  Aepoaol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.o,d
SLOVENIA                   ~                                                                                                                                                                        T0eWoddBo~RGrovp,o~kj dri.
K-                      SZ  EM                                                                                                                         K-
EJE~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      WAEE                0
f.ld- ~ ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ ~ 056090yAW                                                     E9RK--~~ 
kede      t   BoIIo0t0KE  )kUro                                  r' UHJA
40'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h -RO TI                                                             'ITEC-\ ti-N-
_________________________________                                                                                      OTHBR MAJOR CITIBS                           RUMANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d .,  A- 
_________________(SERBA/MONTNEGRO
YUGOSLAVIA  -   MAIN ROADS         COUNTY (MEOTBI                 ITALY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d o77l
SLVN                                                                                                                                                                                           22I 
20'     '<-~mk RIESONERAINAAOUDRESJND19



