Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER  4205 HU 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Quick Start Gas Turbine Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD. 
 
Dated July 2, 1997 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4502 HU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUNGARIAN POWER 
COMPANIES LTD. (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2
to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) with the modifications set forth below constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
 Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower 
or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution 
of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
Page  3
-
2
-
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall b
e
cancelled.”  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional term has the following meaning, namely “FY” means the fiscal year of the 
Borrower, being the calendar year. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
million Dollars ($60,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one- 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
Page  5
-
4
-
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and 
September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and public utility practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without any limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 30, 1998 a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Management and Operations of the Borrower
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall take all measures as shall be consistent with the 
monitoring program specified in the environmental assessment, dated June 6, 1996, and 
take proper actions to monitor the noise levels of the power plants constructed under the 
Project. 
 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering and financial practices. 
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses, statement of sources 
and application of funds and related statements), the 
consolidated accounts of the Borrower and its subsidiaries and 
the records and accounts for each FY audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than June 15 of each year in the case of the Borrower’s records, 
accounts and financial statements and, in the case of the 
consolidated accounts of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, no 
later than August 31 in FY 1997, July 31 in FY 1998 and June 
15 each FY thereafter: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the FY in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such FY, together with the procedures and internal controls 
Page  8
-
7
-
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
 
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
generate, during FY 1998, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 40% of 
the annual average of the Borrower's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be 
incurred, for that year, the previous FY and the next following FY; such ratio to be 55% 
during each FY thereafter. 
 
(b) 
Before April 30 and October 1 in each of its fiscal year, the Borrower 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review 
upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, initiating and, upon receiving necessary authorization, implementing 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, debt service due from affiliates, net non-
operating income and any reduction in working capital 
other than cash; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures. 
 
(ii) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(iii) 
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year. 
 
(iv) 
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the 
next fiscal year. 
 
(v) 
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes and dividends. 
 
(vi) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(vii) 
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred 
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations. 
 
(viii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section of this Agreement it 
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall 
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0. 
 
(b) 
Before July 1 in each of its FYs, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
Page  10
-
9
-
following FY and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set f
orth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s FYs covered by such review, 
the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such 
requirement. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next FY. 
 
(ii) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
 
(iii) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(iv) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the FY immediately preceding 
the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of 
such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated 
maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding FY on all debt 
of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of the Borrower’s 
rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month 
period to which such revenues relate and net non-
operating income; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt, minus any such 
repayment and interest payments in respect of debt incurred by  
the Borrower and onlent to any of its affiliate companies. 
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
Page  12
-
11
-
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.05. The provisions of this Article V shall supersede all previous 
undertakings of the Borrower in respect of financial covenants set forth in the Project 
Agreement for the Power Project dated June 17, 1986 (Loan No. 2697 HU) and in the 
Loan Agreement for the Energy and Environment Project dated March 25, 1994 (Loan 
No. 3705 HU). 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination
 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Director for Strategy and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Hungarian Power Companies Ltd. 
 
Vam utca 5-7 
 
H-1011 Budapest 
 
Republic of Hungary 
 
Telex: 
 
22-4382 MVM H 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Budapest, Hungary, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Millard Long 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD. 
 
By /s/ Antal Tomboz 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
     % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 Expenditures 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
60,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 75% of local  
 
expenditures for 
 
other items  
 
procured locally 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 60,000,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and 
 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$7,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 1997. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in establishing the quick 
start electric power generating capacity needed for the Borrower’s interconnection with 
the West European power pool. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Construction of two complete simple cycle gas turbine power plants (about 110 
MW each) in Liter and Sajoszoged, including: 
 
1. 
Provision and installation of: (i) gas turbine generating sets and auxiliaries, air 
inlet and exhaust gas systems; (ii) electrical equipment, as required to serve plants needs; 
(iii) power plant control system; (iv) high voltage switchgear and unit transformers to 
connect the generator sets to the 120 KV system; and (v) enclosures and light structure to 
accommodate the gas turbine units and auxiliaries. 
 
2. 
Installation of an auxiliary system, including: (i) fuel supply system, including 
unloading facilities, oil storage tanks, and pumping stations and piping; (ii) demineralized 
water supply for make-up cooling water; (iii) water supply for fire extinguishing system; 
(iv) fire detection and protection system; and (v) telecommunications and remote control 
and indication system. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of works, including: (i) site preparation, leveling and earthwork; (ii) 
foundations for main equipment enclosures and buildings; (iii) foundations for auxiliary 
equipment and storage tanks; and (iv) site improvements, cable and piping channels and 
trenches. 
 
4. 
Connections to integrate the plant with the Borrower’s energy management 
system. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
beginning September 15, 2002 
 
through March 15, 2012 
3,000,000 
 
*
The figure in this column represents the amount in Dollars to be repaid except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement
 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
The design, supply and installation of gas turbine generating sets and auxiliary 
system together with related civil works shall be procured under a single contract 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to the contract referred to in paragraph 1 of 
this Part B and awarded in accordance with the provisions thereof. 
 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for the contract referred to in paragraph 1 of 
this Part B shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.  
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of an invitation to prequalify for bidding or to bid for the 
contracts referred to in paragraph B.1 of this Schedule, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
Page  19
-
18
-
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract referred to in paragraph B.1 of this Schedule.
 
