Docum'ent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9085
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
SECOND IDA CREDIT TO THE
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPOPATION
(CREDIT 985-LSO)
OCTOBER 22, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    Maloti (M) (singular is loti)
US$1.00                   M2.65 (May 1990)
Ml.00                     US$0.3771
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -   African Development Bank
BEDCO     -    Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CBL       -    Central Bank of Lesotho
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
CMA       -   Common Monetary Area
DEG       -   Deutsche Entwicklungs Gesellschaft
EIB       -   European Investment Bank
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GOL       -   Government of Lesotho
IDA       -    International Development Association
IFC       -    International Finance Corporation
LBFC      -   Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
LNDC      -   Lesotho National Development Corporation
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
RMA       -   Rand Monetary Area
RSA       -   Republic of South Africa
SACU      -    South African Customs Union
SAF       -    Structural Adjustment Facility
SME       -    Small and Medium-scale Enterprise
SSE       -    Small-scale Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER AND OF LNDC
April 1 to March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oie of ODiwcem.et"wwu
Opratuww Evvak alm
October 22, 1990
MEMORANDU TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Lesotho - Second
IDA Credit to the Lesotho National Development
CorDoration (Credit 985-LSO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Lesotho - Second IDA Credit to the Lesotho National
Development Corporation (Credit 985-LSO)n prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restr*ted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfionrnce
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Dank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
SECOND IDA CREDIT TO THE LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 985-LSO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........                .................................                   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................... 
PART Is  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...........                       1
A.  Project Identity .          .......................................             1
B.  Project Background ............................... ......                       1
C.  Project Objectives and Design ................           ...........            2
a)  Objectives and Components             ................... . .. ...         2
b)  Project Concept and Design .............     # ............                3
D.  Project Implementation .......             ...........................          3
a)  LNDC Financial Performance so .            .................. ....         3
b)  Organizational and Institutional Performance ........                      6
c)  Project Implementation Performance .................            .          8
d)  Audits and Reports         *     ...............................           9
E.  Results and Principal Issues Affecting Results                 ..........       9
a)  LNDC's Impact on the Sector ................ .          .......            9
b)  Impact of the Credit Line Component .................                      9
c)  Staff Development and Training Grant Components  ..*..                    10
P.  Bank Performance and Lessons Learned ....................                      11
C.  Sustainability ..........................................                      13
H.  Bank Relationship with Borrower .................... .     .    ....           13
I.  Concluding Remarks .... ...................  #of ............                  14
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ......                      15
I*  INTRODUCTION .         ..........................................           15
The Corporation ..                   .............................. ....  15
Capital and Sources of Finance ..# ................    t                 16
The LNDC Board of Directors ..................* ....                     17
LNDC Project Financing Guidelines ...................                    17
Macro Economic Setting over Credit Line Period ..s....                   18
Trends in Economic Performance During Period
of Credit LSO ................ ..... .... . . ....                    21
The Industrial Sector ., .... .               ............... .          21
The Financial Sector ....... *..O .             ...........              25
Review of IDA's Assistance to LNDC ............. * ....                  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withouit World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Pato llo.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .....       30
III.  INPLEMENTATION UTILISATION OF BANK CREDIT .............      32
General Overview ................................          32
Performance of Subprojects ...................    O        34
Implementation Schedule     .    ...................       45
IV.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE OVER THE PROJECT PERIOD    .........   47
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ... ..............................     49
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT .............      54
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................... .......... *. .0.     56
VIII.    CONCLUSIONS   ......... *****    ****................*........ s ...*..   57
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................. e........6...   59
1. Related Bank Credits          ................................  59
2.  Project Timetable ......... ........ s ............ ..... .  59
3. Credit Disbursements ...............0.........*.......        59
4. Status of Covenants  .      ..................................  60
5. Use of Bank Resources ........ .....................          62
AUNEXES
1: LNDC's New Organization Chart (1987)    ..................   63
2: Basic Data on the Project Lending Terms ..... ..........      64
3: Actual Financial Performance and Status as
Compared with Appraisal Projections:
I.  Income Statement .   ..............O.........       65
II.  Balance Sheet ....... .. ......................     66
III.  Operations .......................** .......        68
4: List of Subprojects Financed Under Credit 985-LSO
and List of LNDC Staff Trained ....... .............       70
5: Summary of Subprojects Financed Under the Credit ......       73
6:  LNDC's Statement of Policies ....................... ...     83



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
SECOND IDA CREDIT TO THE LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 985-LSO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second IDA
Credit to the Lesotho National Development Corporation, for which Credit
985-LSO in the amount of US$4.0 million was approved on February 26, 1980.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1987, three years behind schedule. US$0.54
million remained undisbursed at the Closing Date and was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of
the Southern Africa Department (Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project in July 1988, and is based inter alia, on the
staff appraisal report; the loan, guarantee and project agreements; super-
vision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the borrower; and
internal bank memoranda.
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were
received.



- ill -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTII
SECOND IDA CREDIT TO THE LESOTHO RATIONAL DEVELOPHNT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 985-LSO)
EVALUATION SUIIARY
Background (PCR paras. 1-3)
Credit 985-LSO was the second IDA project to LNDC, which is the
Government's chief industrial development institution. As such LNDC was seen
as the principal actor in Lesotho's industrial development.  Its assistance
to the sector was conceived in terms the carrying out of investment promotion
activities including the development of factory shells, the provision of term
lending on concessional terms, and equity investments of priority projects.
Objectives (PCR paras.4-6)
Against this background, the project had two principal objectives:
a) to assist LNDC in further strengthening itself as an institution with
leadership -apability in industrial, tourism and commercial development in
Lesotho; and b) to expand the industrial sector (with an explicit employment
generation goal) through the availability of f4nancial resources for lending
and investment. The project sought to achieve these objectives with three
components: a) a US$3.7 million line of credit to LUDC to cover part of its
resource needs for investments in medium and large scale enterprises; b) a
US$150,000 staff training component to finance training of LNDC staff in
project evaluation, project management, accountancy end financial management;
and c) US$150,000 in training funds to finance part of the training costs of
skilled and semi-skilled technicians and workers employed by new enterprises
establishing in Lesotho.
Other objectives related to LNDC's corporate strategy as follows:
a) to aggressively promote Lesotho as an investment area. Specific areas to
be pushed were to be food processing, textiles and clothing, leather and
footwear, engineering and building materials; b) to continue efforts to
improve the performance of the portfolio of subsidiary end associated com-
panies, including divestiture of selected companies; a) to diversify the
corporation's sources of long-term resources by seeking additional share-
holders and new lenders; and d) intensive staff development.
Implementation Exmerience
Section IV of the PCR discusses the principal differences between
LNDC's actual and projected financial and institutional performance. Despite
initial poor financial performance and slow growth of operations, by the
Closing Date in 1987 (extended from 1984), LNDC had ewperienced three years
of profitabilitv and its asset base had grown from M9.0 million at the start
of the project to over M43.0 million before project closing. Although pros-
pects are for continued and increasing profitability, the low rate of return



- iv -
on LNDC's asset base--around 5--is in part indicative of the Corporation's
still vulnerable financial position (PCR paras. 9-12). Institutionally, LNDC
has also shown significant improvements. All aspects of LNDC's supervision
and investment promotion activities had improved, and a conscientious program
of staff training, successfully supported under the project, continues. The
most notable remaining weakness is in the area of project prioritization,
selection and appraisal (PCR paras. 13-20).  The train_ng grant scheme was
judged by investors as well as Bank supervision missions to have been well
administered and to have been a successful experiment in reducing skills gaps
through encouraging on-the-job-training (PCR para. 28).
LNDC has been successful in its role to promote investment in the
sector. From 1980 to 1986, it assisted the establishment and/or expansion of
35 firms, which are still operating, representing 28S of the manufacturing
enterprises in Lesotho. In 1986, these firms accounted for approximately 612
of total manufacturing GDP and employment.  A principal weakness affecting
LNDC's sustainability and commercial accountability is its continued heavy
reliance on Government sources of funds which account for over 70S of its
non-equity resource base and 901 of its equity.   As noted during project
supervision, in a financial environment characterized by jurplus liquidity in
the banking system, the potential for LNDC to mobilize domestic resources and
utilize them for its operations could be achieved with the design of
appropriate financial instruments (PCR para. 23).
Issues
While the project provided a minor share of LNDC's overall
resources, IDA's principal contribution to LNDC's development was the inten-
sive technical assistance during supervision which supported institutional
objectives. The principal issues affecting the project were
a) slow demand for the credit line (PCR paras. 24-27).   By the
original project Closing Date in June 1984, only 261 of the
credit was disbursed.   The project Closing Date was postponed
three times and project implementation lasted for 6.5 years
instead of the 3.5 years expected at appraisal. In the end the
project documents were amended to permit 60Z (US$2.2 million) of
the credit to be used for factory shell construction because of
a lack of demand for credit for other investment purposes.
While the reported reasons for this was the recession in the
early 80's and regional instability which reduced investor con-
fidence, other factors whose impact were not fully appreciated
at appraisal were:
- that the foreign exchange available under the credit was
not in demand; it was not a constraint to investment.
Capital goods and services needed for LNDC financed
projects originate from the rand monetary area requiring
only local currency. When imports from outside the area
are necessary, the rand is freely convertible through the
Reserve Bank where importers have virtually unlimited
access to foreign exchange; and



-v -
- Lesotho competes for investors with the South African
homelands which, in addition to a myriad of other cash
incentives, offer investors interest concessions of 15-80%
of a market interest rate for loans up to about US$3.0
million equivalent. Further, the fixed 11% interest rate
offered on IDA's credit line plus a 1% foreign exchange
guarantee fee vas sometimes above the prevailing market
rates.
b)  legal issues which constrained LNDC's resource mobilization and
investment promotion efforts.   The LNDC Act, which establishes
LNDC and defines its corporate objectives, discourages private
equity participation in LNDC investments by prohibiting
distribution of dividends. Thus, efforts during the project to
attract equity from international investment corporations
(intended to strengthen LNDC's commercial accountability and
diversify its resource base), were unsuccessful. An additional
issue is the. effect of the Land Act which constrains foreign
investors from owning land in Lesotho.  Through its control on
serviced industrial land, LNDC thereby has a de facto monopoly
on deciding whether and under what conditions foreigners can
invest in the country.   Investors observe that this leverage
results in slow licensing approval as LUDC negotiates terms for
its own potential participation.   In the case of natural
resource based investments LNDC demands a controlling 51% equity
share. At issue is whether LNDC's efforts to mobilize foreign
capital might be better served if foreign investors did not see
LUDC as a potential roadblock/obligatory partner. Also special
zoning permitting foreign land ownership in restricted areas
might encourage the use of foreign capital for factory space
investments, thereby freeing Government/LNDC resources for other
directly productive uses.
Sustainability (PCR paras. 38 and 39)
Long-run sustainability of LNDC's operations was addressed during
project supervision by analysis of the potential for an LNDC bond issue as a
means to wean the institution from dependence on external and govermaent
sources of funding.  The necessity to mobilize its own resources was high-
lighted as donor interest in LNDC waned somewhat with the on-set of construc-
tion of the high profile Lesotho Highlands Water Project.   The principal
concern regarding proceeding with resource mobilization efforts was, first,
LNDC's interest in continuing to provide loans at highly subsidized interest
rates which could not be achieved if its resources were raised on market
terms. A second factor was the potentially high cost of these funds given
the extremely attractive tax exempt yields offered on Government Treasury
Bills, the competitive instrument with any potential LNDC bond issue. The
crowding out effect of Treasury Bill pricing would subsequently be corrected,
and the issue of LNDC resource mobilization would be taken up in the third
IDA supported industrial sector project, however, with an emphasis on mobili-
zation of equity resources.



- vi -
The sustainability of LNDC's operations is generally affected by its
role as an investment promotion agent and its perceived need to compete for
foreign investment dollars by providing subsidized factory shells end loans.
LNDC's shopping center and brewery investments, strong cash generator., were
facilitated by the Government and were intended to cross-subsidize the lou.-
making activities related to investment promotion. Nonethelese, the follw-
on project would address these issues by developing with the Government a
sustainable investment promotion effort consistent with LNDC'a and the coun-
try's financial resournes.  The long-run viability of LNDC's lending opera-
tions would also be taken up as conditionality in the follow-on project.
Lessons Learned
The principal lessons learned are:
- the need to integrate LNDC's lending activities into an overall
financial development strateav (PCR paras. 29-31). Specifically,
attention should be paid in forthcoming lending operations to:
a) developing instruments, such as an LNDC bond issue, whereby
domestic savings could be used to finance LNDC's operationsa
b) achieving consistency between LNDC's interest policies and
those prevailing in the financial system; c) mobilizing local and
foreign private equity sources in an effort to privatize LNDC's
operations. Such an effort, in addition to providing equity for
expansion of operations, would also provide the Corporaision with
the commercial accountability and discipline necessary to ensure
its development as a strong institution; and d) reviewing LNDC's
comparative advantage as a lender vis-a-vis that of the banking
system.
- the need for further sector knowledge and strateay formulatio
(PCR paras. 32-34).  Little detailed sector work seems to have
been undertaken prior to appraisal and during most of the project
implementation period.  Thus the Bank was not in a very strong
position to estimate investment demand or to make policy recom-
mendations for accelerating industrial growth. Further study is
recommended and should be appropriately focused on the financial
sector, development of an investment promotion strategy and
incentives policies which take account of Lesotho's comparative
advantages, employment generation objectives and development
objectives to develop industries with crit.cal forward and back-
ward linkages.   In the absence of such a strategy, investment
promotion efforts would lack focus and desirable objectives may
go unmet.
- the aunarent success of the trainint grant scheme (PCR paras. 35
and 36) highlighted the value of inplant training and work
experience to develop specific skills.   However, if potential
investors are to see Lesotho's growing labor force as a readily
available asset, increased attention must be paid to manpower
planning and more fully utilizing Lesotho's training and voca-
tional education system.



- vii -
-  SSE development and BEDCO (PCR para. 37).   The Basotho Enter-
prises Development Corporation (BEDCO) did not receive support
under the project.  Indeed, for the time being, BEDCO's serious
weaknesses makes it an inadequate lending vehicle for SHE's.
However, the development of micro and small and medium scale
enterprises is important in a country like Lesotho, given the
small market and the tendency for these enterprises to have rela-
tively high employment per dollar of capital invested. Future
operations should make BEDCO the subject of a thorough appraisal
with recommendations for its reorganization and strengthening.
Tn the meantime, the SME sector should not be ignored but rather
alternative financing and technical assistance mechanisms
explored in the context of the financial and education system.
Further, sector strategy, policy initiatives, and incentive
schemes should take SSE development explicitly into account.
Concluding Remarks (PCR para. 41)
The Government sees IDA's involve4ent with LNDC as positive and
useful. Indeed, in the course of the past two projects, LNDC has made sub-
stantial and increasing progress both financially and institutionally. Future
operations in the sector would focus on defining strategies for industrial
and financial development (including strategies for SSE development) and on
clarifying LNDC's investment promotion role and its r"ile within the financial
sector.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTJQ
SECOND IDA CREDIT TO THE LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 985-LSO)
PART I: J'ROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
Project Name:                  Second IDA Credit for the Lesotho
National Development Bank
Credit No:                     985-LSO
Credit Amounts                 US$4.0 million
Total Project Cost
at Appraisal:                  US$8.6 million
Estimated Project Cost:,       US$7,400,000
RVP Unit:                      AF6 -- Industry and Energy Operations
Division
Country:                       Lesotho
Sector:                        Industry
Subsector:                     Development Finance Company
B.  Proiect Backrrou"d
1.       The Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) is a Government
corporation set up in 1967 to promote and finance modern non-agricultural
projects in Lesotho.   In its early years, the Corporation enjoyed good
managemdnt which guidid the establishment of good internal operational proce-
dures and policies.   However,  in 1973 when its first Managing Director
departed, a period of uncertain management offset much of the progress which
had been made in the early years.   Good staff could not be recruited and
retained; the organizational structure became ineffective and internal proce-
dures deteriorated; there was inadequate follow-up on the investments which
had been made, leading to a rapid deterioration in th;3ir performance; and the
very few new project investments were not adequately appraised--a fact which
later contributed to LNDC's need for bad loan write-offs and divestiture of
poorly performing investments.
2.       IDA established contact with LNDC in 1973, provided technical assis-
tance and advice to assist it to overcome its organizational difficulties,
but did not appraise LNDC for financial assistance until 1976. The Govern.-
ment requested assistance for both LNDC and its subsidia.y, the Basotho
1/ Actual project costs are estimated due to incomplete information on
subprojects provided by LNDC.



Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO).  The first credit (US$2.2 mil-
lion to LNDC and US$0.3 million to BEDCO) aimed at both institution building
of the two corporations and at providing financial support to Lesotho's
industrialization and employment generation efforts.  By appraisal in 1976,
the deterioration which began in 1973 had reached a peak and the institution
building efforts under that project focussed on improving all aspects of the
company's  operations.   The PCR2  for the  fi!st operation  indicates
achievements including strengthening and improving control of subsidiaries,
significant improvements in financial control, recruitment and training of
Basotho staff and localization of some managerial positions, implementation
of a quite successful divestiture program and introduction of an active
investment promotion program. Numerous weaknesses remained, however, in the
areas of procedures (appraisal and supervision, especially of the loan port-
folio, and management information systems), staffing (continued heavy
reliance on expatriate staff), portfolio quality and financial performance,
which remained consistently poor with losses in all years.   The PCR noted
progress in BEDCO which succeeded in establishing fairly sound systems and
procedures and improving supervision and financial controls and launching a
program for training client entrepreneurs. On the other hand, it was noted
that BEDCO's portfolio, including the thirty-one projects financed under the
IDA credit, was of poor quality and the Corporation's overall financial per-
formance was much poorer than anticipated.
3.       In April/May 1979, an appraisal mission visited Lesotho to appraise
a second IDF project.   The mission reviewed the progress of both LNDC and
BEDCO, their prospects, and resource requirements. Despite BEDCO's continued
institutional weaknesses, it found that BEDCO's existing resources and
expected new commitments from other donors would be sufficient to meet its
projected needs through 1982. The second project, therefore, dealt only with
LNDC for which an IDA Credit of US$4.0 million to the Government of Lesotho
was to be passed on to LNDC.   Of this, US$3.7 million was for financin&
LNDC's normal operations and $0.3 million would be used for training LNDC
staff and workers in new enterprises establishing in Lesotho.
C. Project Objectives and DesiRn
a)  Objectives and Components
4.       The project had two principal objectives:   1) to assist LNDC in
furtner strengthening itself as an institution with leadership capability in
industrial, tourism and commercial development in Lesotho; and 2) to expand
the industrial sector (with an explicit employment generation goal) through
the availability of financial resources for lending and investment.   The
project sought to achieve these objectives with three components:   a) a
US$3.7 million line of credit to LNDC to cover part of its resource needs for
investments in medium and large scale enterprises; b) a US$150,000 trainir,g
funds component to finance training in project evaluation, project manage-
ment, accountancy and financial management of LNDC's Basotho staff; and
2/ Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) and Basotho Enterprises
Development Corporation (BEDCO) Project Completion Report (Credit 702-LSO)
dated March 14, 1984, Report No. 4987.



-3-
e) US$150,000 in training funde to finance part of the training costs of
skilled and semi-skilled technicians and workers employed by new enterprises
establiehing in Lesotho.
5.       Other project objectives related to LNDC's corporate strategy as
follows:  a) to aggressively promote Lesotho as an investment area. During
this period Europe and America were to be the major focus, and specific
activities to be pushed were to be food processing, textiles and clothing,
leather and footwear, engineering and building materials; b) to continue
efforts to improve the performance of the portfolio of subsidiary and associ-
ated companies, including divestiture of selected companies; c) to diversify
the corporation's sources of long-term resources by seeking additional share-
holders and new lenders; and d) intensive staff development.
b) Proiect Concevt and Desian
6.        The project concept was conditioned by the early precedents of Bank
Group interventions in the financial and industrial sectors which was focused
on industrial lending through Development Finance Companies. LNDC was to be
tho chief mechanism to promote industrial development: a) by providing term
credit and thereby fill a void in the financial sector; and b) by more
adequately serving new industrial enterprise development which was felt to be
thvtrted by an overly conservative, collateral oriented banking sector.
LUDC's institutional and financial development were supported as a separate
administrative mechanism to encourage investment apart from considerations of
general financial and industrial sector environment and policies. The indus-
trial and financial sector environment in which LNDC was to operate was not
studied prior to or during appraisal. Some of the peculiaities of that
environment, which were not fully appreciated at the time, influenced project
implementation.
D. Proiect ImDlementation
a) LNDC Financial Performance
7.       Tables in Annex 3 compare projected with actual income, balance
sheet and operations during the project period, FY1980 through FY1984.



-4-
Operations and Portfolio Structure
Balance Sheet
(in '000 Maloti)
Proiectio s                 Actual
1980        1984           1981       1984
Assets
Net Current Assets             50           50           532         (158)
Loans                        2881        8779            443         1519
Equity                       1791         4271          3308         6141
Factory Buildings            5630        12185          8949        11586
Provisions                  (1493)       (2020)         (317)       (2452)
Other                         185          175            77           NA
Total Assets                 9044       23440          12836        16636
Liabilities and Eauity
Long-term Liabilities        2650        12147          2989         6089
Share Capital                4800        8400           4000         4000
Capital Reserves             1416         1416          3445         2733
Grants                        140          140          2713         6266
Accumulated Funds              38         1337          (317)       (2452)
Total Liabs. and Equity      9044       23440          12836        16636
8.       The principal differences between projected and actual operations
and portfolio development are as follows:
-- The level and growth of lending was substantially over-
estimated at appraisal.   This factor principally accounted
for the overestimation of growth in LNDC's balance sheet.
-- the growth of factory shells in LNDC's portfolio was strong
as projected at appraisal.
-- government grants as a source of funds for LNDC's operations
was substantially underestimated.   Growth in share capital
was projected to more than double but in fact did not change
during the FY80-84 period.
-- Long-term loans projected to be a substantial source of
funding for LNDC was almost directly substituted by govern-
ment grants. Government financial support for the Corpora-
tion contributed to LNDC's maintaining strong liquidity and
an unusually low debt:equity ratio of .9:1 which is sub-
stantially below the 3:1 limit agreed with IDA.
--  levels of commitments and disbursements fell far short of
expectations.



-5-
9.      at project closing in 1987, LNDC'e portfolio amounted to M24.3 mil-
lion, approximately the magnitude projected at appraisal for 1984, the
expected year of project closing.  Despite slow growth in lending, by the
actual end of the project LNDC's portfolio was very much consistent with what
was envisioned at appraisal. However, since this was three years after the
projected project Closing Date, this appears to be more a coincidence than as
a result of the project planning.
Proj. 1984    Actual 1984      Actual 1987
Loans                     34Z            8.0%             321
Equity                    18%           32.01             18%
Factory Buildings         48Z           60.0%             50%
ProfitabilitZ
LNDC Prolected vs. Actual Net Profits
Millions
3           -
0  -................
19} t80  199B1  1982  1983  1984  1965  1968  1997  188
Year
Ada Not Pof=s) Prooed Not PrtOks)
10.     Expenses grew faster than projected, leading to an overestimation of
LNDC's operating profitability. While administrative expenses were expected
to decline by the end of the project to about 5% of average assets with
increased levels of operation, the ratio of administrative expenses with
respect to average assets remained between 6% and 7S until as late as 1986.
In addition, performance on LNDC's equity and loan portfolio was quite poor
during the period and provisions, which reached a peak of 53Z of the value of
the equity and loan portfolios in 1983, exceeded estimated provisions. As a
result of these factors LNDC operated at a loss despite appraisal estimates
of early profitability. In fact LNDC did not turn a profit after provisions
until 1985, but has been profitable ever since.



-6-
11.      Net profits since 1985 have been as follows:
1985     1986      1987        1988
(---'000 maloti---)
Net Profitability            41     1478       1004       2295
This represents a return on average assets of .6%, .3%, and 4.6%, respec-
tively in 1986, 1987 and 1988.   Since 1984, LNDC's operations and gross
income have grown at a substantially faster pace than earlier, largely due to
the exceptional profitability of the brewery and of the shopping center
investments. Despite recent improvements iTn LNDC's profitability it is still
on average less than appraisal projections which indicated that net profit
would represent about a 2% p.a. return on average assets. However, profit-
ability is steadily improving.
12.      After conclusion of a successful divestiture program, LNDC's port-
folio of subsidiary and associated companies is increasingly profitable and
in CY1987 accounted for 50% of LNDC's total annual income. Dividends, how-
ever, are highly concentrated amongst a few firms, with the brewery
accounting for about 70% of total dividends.   Rental income from factory
shell investments accounted for 33% of total annual income and represents the
lowest risk aspect of the Corporation's operations in terms of arrears and
default--about 1.5% of the value of the rental portfolio as compared to 12%
of the loan portfolio. Lending operations, on the other hand, have been only
marginally profitable. With average loan income representing about 11-12% of
the average loan portfolio in 1985 and 1986, and financial expenses repre-
senting about 6% percent of average liabilities, the available spread on
lending operations is only about 5 to 6%. Administrative costs are above 6%
and after provisions overall lending costs exceed the available spread.
Prospects are for lending to remain a marginal aspect of LNDC's operations
unless costs can be reduced or the spread increased by raising the rate of
interest.
b) Organizational and Institutional Performance
13.      During the early years of the project, LNDC experienced rapid
changes in management. However some stability in management is beginning to
be realized.  The organization is currently served by a competent Managing
Director who is anxious to lead substantial development in the sector.
Staffing has increased considerably (from a total of 37 professionals to 48),
due in part to an average increase in the salary structure of 10% in 1985.
The Finance Department however remained understaffed and LNDC's financial
management and accounting functions remain weak and the management informa-
tion system had just begun to be established near the close of the project.
Trainint and localization efforts, directly supported by the training of 13
staff under the project, are judged to have been effective.   The number of
expatriate managers and advisers has declined significantly, from 8 at the
time of appraisal to 4 by the close of the credit (only 1 expatriate manager
rema4ned in the Finance Department).  Even the one expatriate in charge of
finance was slated to be replaced as soon as a Basotho staff's ac -untancy
training was completed.



- 7 -
14.      Privatization of ownership was one of the mechanisms by which the
objective to diversify LNDC's sources of long-term resources was to be
achieved.   To this end Government agreed in principal to reduce its 1002
share of ownership in LNDC to permit participation by DEG on the Board with a
DM1 million equity contribution.   The required amendments of the LNDC Act
were not made during the project. While a shareholder agreement was signed
between DEG and LNDC, the equity participation remains pending. LNDC remains
open to further participation by development corporations on its board and
invitations to FMO and IFC were made.  The operative clause in the LNDC Act
which must be amended to make such participation worthwhile to the partici-
pating institution is the one requiring that no part of the income, profits
or property of the Corporation may be distributed to shareholders, i.e. no
dividends can be paid.   The objective of this increased level of private
ownership is to introduce a more commercial and business-like management of
LNDC operations as well as to increase the company's equity as a basis for
expanded operations.   However,  sensitivities which have not been fully
revealed remain with respect to the privatization issue and have thwarted
progress in this area.
15.      In general, LNDC has not yet successfully diversified i a resource
base to include non-governmental sources of capital.  The Government of
Lesotho continues to be the principal source of funds for LNDC's operations.
In 1988, the Government provided M14.6 million of the total resources of
M20.5 million. Other non-IDA resources included the M5.5 million equivalent
from the European Investment Bank, and three commercial loans totalling MO.4
million from Lesotho Bank, The Commonwealth Development Corporation, EDESA
International Finance Company and SIFIDA Investment Company.
16.      Because it is not empowered to take financial deposits directly from
the public, LNDC's role in the mobilization of domestic resources for
development purposes is mainly that of a catalyst attracting equity and loan
financing from local investors and institutions for projects it assists.  In
this respect, its contribution has so far been negligible.  To illustrate,
equity investments at end CY1987 were about M7.0 million; virtually 100X was
invested by LNDC itself.  The major factor for this performance is the lack
of an equity investment tradition among savers in Lesotho. Savings have been
mainly in bank deposits. Related factors have been the lack of an institu-
tiona' mechanism to facilitate such investment, combined with LNDC's lack of
a track record of profitability. As LNDC grows more profitable, the possi-
bilities of selling off some equity to local investors can be envisaged and
actively pursued. With respect to its role in mobilizing foreign investment
resources,  its contribution is difficult to estimate.   Ideally the LNDC
investment as a share of total invested resources would be small to indicate
successful resource mobilization activity.   However, indications are that
LNDC's financial contributions combined with tax incentives may substantially
reduce the net level of mobilized resources.
17.      In the past LNDC's mobilization of resources from the banking sestem
has been in the form of guaranteeing loans from the three commercial banks
for both short-term and long-term financing needs of companies. More, how-
ever, needs to be done especially given the continued excess liquidity in the
banking system, and the availability of surplus lendable funds. A mechanism
such as an LNDC bond issue with a Government guarantee and the backing of the



-8-
Monetary Authority to ensure liquidity was discuss.d at appraisal and studied
during project supervision.   Such a measure would be ideal for financing
LNDC's factory building operations which carry less risks and offer high
yields and good cellateral.
18.      With the objective to ensure LNDC's evolution into a self-sustaining
institution within Lesotho's financial sector, progress in the area of
resource mobilization as discussed above are expected under the IDA credit to
the industrial sector which is currently under preparation.
19.      Policies (detailed in Annex 6) for the most part were required by
IDA to be strictly adhered to. An exception was LNDC's decision to invest in
the brewery project which caused it to exceed the maximum investment as a
proportion of net worth covenant in its policy statement. This investment,
however, has been among LNDC's best in terms of profitability and cash flow.
Interest rates range from 11% (EIB line of credit) to 13% (for the first IDA
credit including 1% fee to cover foreign exchange risk), and 12% (for the
second IDA credit including the fee).   These fixed rates at the time of
project closing were negative in real terms (inflation was estimated at about
18-20%) and were sometimes lower and sometimes higher than tho local commer-
cial bank overdraft rates--South African rates varied between 12.5 and 25%
and rates in Lesotho varied between 11% and 20%.
20.      Significant weaknesses in entrepreneur selection and appraisal
procedures throughout implementation caused a) delays in approvals as IDA
questioned appraisal assumptions and b) rejection of certain projects because
of doubtful economic justification.   However,  improvements in appraisal
procedures and reports were recorded toward the end of the project.   Pre-
Investment and Investment Committee reviews improved the process of project
selection. Given the importance of appraisal to ensure performance of LNDC's
portfolio, the following improvements are needed: a) explicit assessment of
the quality of enterprise management and staff; b) explicit assessment of
relationships between sponsors, parent company or subsidiary as part of the
evaluation of the apparent risks and strengths of the company; and
c) explicit discussion of assumptions underlying financial projections.
While supervision of loan investments was unsystematic during most of the
implementation period, under new management efforts were made to more sys-
tematically follow up on the loan portfolio with more frequent company visits
especially for loans which suffered from substantial arrears. Supervision of
equity investments had throughout the project period been given priority and
was adequate.
c)  Project Imolementation Performance
21.      The proceeds of credit 9G5-LSO were used to finance 17 projects
under project category A (investment projects including loans and buildings),
13 under category B (staff training), and 14 worker training grants as
indicated in Annex 4.   At appraisal, there was no projection as to the
expected sectoral breakdown of use of the credit or of other LNDC invest-
ments.  About 60% of approved subprojects were in the textile and clothing
subsector, including factory shell construction tenanted by that type of
industry. The remainder was for wholesale and retail operations.



-9-
d) Audits and Reports
22.      Project reporting was consistently tardy.  However, the Corporation
produced a quite satisfactory and timely Project Completion Report
(attached).   Due to the requirement that independently prepared audits be
reviewed by the Auditor General prior to being sent to IDA, audits were con-
sistently tardy and the format of accounts were, during the first years of
the project, found to be wanting. This problem, however, cleared up toward
the end of the project when the draft audit was sent directly to IDA, prior
to the Auditor General's review.
E. Results and Principal Issues Affecting Results
a) LNDC's Impact on the Sector
23.      The impact of the project is ultimately judged by LNDC's impact on
industrial investment and/or employment generation which has been substan-
tial.   From 1980 through 1986, it disbursed M22.3 million on development
projects or an average of 43.2 million per year using primarily donor assis-
tance. It assisted the establishment and/or expansion of 35 firms, which are
still operating, representing 282 of the manufacturing enterprises in
Lesotho. In 1986, these firms accounted for approximately 61% of total manu-
facturing GDP and employment.   During this period the manufacturing sector
grew relatively faster than GDP, representing about 13 percent of GDP in 1986
compared with 6 percent in 1975.  Employment growth, on the other hand was
far less impressive with an average per annum rate of growth of about 5Z in
the same period. While it is difficult to calculate LNDC's direct contribu-
tion to these trends, IDA has commenced assistance to the Government to study
the dynamics of manufacturing sector growth and its apparently capital inten-
sive character. This analysis will contribute to the design of an appropri-
ate industrial development strategy and policy framework and clarify LNDC's
investment promotion role within that framework.
b) Impact of the Credit Line Component
24.      The IDA credit contribution to sector performance and LNDC's con-
tribution to it must be judged in part by observing that the total (before
cancellations) of IDA I and IDA II credits were US$5.75 million, about 30Z of
LNDC's total 1987 portfolio asset base equivalent to about US$19.0 million.
Further disbursements under IDA II were slower than expected.  As a result
the project Closing Date was postponed three times and project implementation
lasted for 6.5 years instead of the 3.5 years expected at appraisal. In the
end, the project documents were amended to permit about 60% of the credit to
be used to finance the construction of factory shells. The issues which may
have led to this are examined in more detail below.
25.      Foreign Exchange Available uncer the Credit not in Demand.  Apart
from the IDA and EIB credits, all of LNDC's resources are local resources.
This small proportion of foreign exchange has, however, not been a constraint
on LNDC's operations because most of the capital goods and services needed
for LNDC financed projects originate from the rand monetary area. Where they
have to be imported from outside the area, the rand as a convertible currency
has been sufficient to meet those needs also.



- 10 -
26.      Competitiveness of Interest Rate and Other Charges.  In accordance
with the first IDA credit LNDC lent at 12% p.a. on all loans, and in addition
charged a required 1% fee on behalf of Government for the latter's assumption
of the foreign exchange risk. Under the second credit, the interest rate was
reduced to 11% plus the additional 1% fee to be competitive with general
interest rates in the country and in South Africa.   Interest rates in
Lesotho, however, must be compared to subsidized interest rates for term
loans in the South African Homelands, an alternative investment site for
investors who might also be attracted to Lesotho.   Interest concessions of
15-80% of a market-related interest rate is payable on a quarterly basis as a
taxable cash grant to approved industries for a period of ten years and
covers 100% of the value of land and buildings and 50% of other assets for
projects with a total capital investment not exceeding R7 million (about
US$3.0 million equivalent).  In 1982, this subsidy, in addition to a myriad
of other concessions, was introduced in the homelands as part of South
Africa's Regional Development Strategy. While data on the level and growth
of investment in the homelands per se is not available to the writer of this
report, it is likely that the broader market, superior infrastructure as well
as more attractive incentives policy offered by the South African government
were more successful in attracting new investors than LNDC.   Supervision
reports attribute slow disbursements primarily to the recession of 1982 and
to the general deterioration of the investment environment caused by regional
instability.  The importance of these temporal factors, however, should not
overshadow the structural issues affecting LNDC's investment promotion role.
27.      The GOL has become increasingly aware of the difficulty of invest-
ment promotion given the competitiveness of the Southern Africa environment.
In 1986, an extension of Lesotho's tax holiday program from 6 to 10 years was
proposed. At IDA's advice, this extension has not been implemented until its
cost in terms of foregone revenue and its likely impact on investment can be
evaluated.   With government and IFC collaboration and in the context of
preparation for a third project to LNDC, IDA is undertaking a review of
Lesotho's incentives policies, investment environment and investment promo-
tion efforts. The objective of this review will be the design of a cost-
effective system which takes account of the Lesotho's natural comparative
advantages, special access to European markets and investment opportunities
presented by the Lesotho Highlands Water Project.
c) Staff Development and Trainina Grant Components
28.      Staff development and training progressed well under the project and
key management and staff positions are for the most part now occupied by
Basotho. With respect to the training grant scheme, no specific employment
targets were set and during supervision no specific information was gathered
as to the amount of incremental employment actually created with each sub-
project.  It is therefore difficult at this point to reconstruct the actual
cost per job created or the aggregate employment generation as a direct
result of the project.  The training grant program was judged to have been
well managed and to have been a useful measure to encourage the hiring and
training of Basotho staff.



- 11 -
F. Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
29.      Project Concept.  Although the particular features of the financial
system in Lesotho were discussed at appraisal, the project design chosen was
consistent with Bank traditional lending in the sector and did not fully
reflect available knowledge about the peculiarities of Lesotho's financial
sector.   In a financial environment characterized by excess bank liquidity
and the absence of a foreign exchange constraint, a project designed around a
line of credit ignored the high potential for linking LNDC's resource base
with that of the formal financial system. The line of credit approach lent
through a specialized institution tended to reinforce market segmentation
and did not contribute to the development of instruments and modalities
whereby short-term domestic savings could be used more efficiently for long-
term investment in Lesotho.  Even today LNDC remains dependent on official
and foreign sources of capital.
30.      An additional aspect of the segmentation issue is that the IDA line
of credit carried a fixed rate of interest of 12% which was sometimes below
and sometimes above rates prevailing in the financial system. Moreover, LNDC
itself was able to offer other credit lines at lower interest rates.
31.      These lessons have been incorporated  into Bank thinking both
generally and with respect to Lesotho. Preparation for the third credit to
LNDC will actively pursue a) the float of an LNDC bond issue to mobilize
resources from the domestic banking system, b) the possibility of privatizing
LNDC and its portfolio, and c) achieving consistency between LNDC's interest
rate policies and those applicable in the financial sector.
32.      Sector Knowledge and Stratefxy. The weak demand for the credit line
was a function of the relatively low level of demand for industrial invest-
ment financing in general as well as the availability of alternative sources
of funds. While the appraisal report mentions shortcomings in the incentive
framework and problems deriving from the Land Act, little detailed sector
work seems to have been undertaken prior to appraisal and during most of the
project implementation period. Thus the Bank was not in a very strong posi-
tion to estimate investment demand or to make policy recommendations for
accelerating industrial growth.
33.      Of particular concern is evidence of problems with respect to the
demand-side for inves.tment.  Symptomatic of this concern are:  a) that LNDC
continues to be a principal equity investor in the sector and b) the fact
that lack of serviced land and the inability of foreign investors to own land
has led to a heavy weighing of factory shell construction in LNDC's port-
folio. An additional related problem is that LNDC's access to serviced land
combined with its investment promotion mandate has evolved to the point where
LNDC considers itself to be the arbiter of which investors can establish in
Lesotho. The leverage implied by its mandated and implicit monopoly has led
to the complaint that LNDC can be a bottleneck to potential investors as the
Corporation negotiates its desired level of equity participation in the
interested enterprise.   For resource based industries, the demand is 51%
(controlling) ownership by LNDC or no investment. Selling controlling
interest can be a serious problem for potential investors.



- 12 -
34.      The lesson learned is that detailed sector knowledge and the
development of a comprehensive strategy for investment promotion is necessary
in order to design appropriate project interventions to achieve industrial
development.   In this respect, knowledge is needed of a) financial sector
functioning and constraints, b) the impact of the full package of incentives
in the investment environment, and c) demand-side constraints on investment.
In the process of defining a strategy for financial sector development and
the mechanisms for encouraging the private sector's role in industrial
development, LNDC's role as a financial institution and in investment promo-
tion may change. Questions which will be addressed in the course of sector
work to prepare for the third LNDC project are: Is LNDC the most efficient
mechanism to channel loan resources?   To what extent should LNDC be an
investor in the sector and to what extent should it play a catalyst role in
mobilizing private local and foreign resources?
35.      The Success of the Trainin2 Grant Scheme.  The training grant scheme
was intended to counterbalance the bias in favor of capital intensive indus-
tries and technologies and the absence of other policies to support income
distribution and employment goals.
36.      Often an objective of special incentives is to compensate for policy
or environmental factors which reduce an investing company's expected return
and thereby discourage investment. As a special incentive the training grant
scheme was intended in part to compensate for a scarce pool of trained man-
power, an inadequate training and vocational education system and the absence
of a manpower planning process which would operate to systematically meet
present and future manpower needs.  The important lessons learned from the
success of the training grant component were that:
a) the best training for skilled technical manpower is not
necessarily at multi-purpose, institutional training facili-
ties. Rather intensive in-plant training and work experience
within an enterprise making a similar range of products to the
one to be established in Lesotho (e.g. in a parent company of
the investor or subsidiary) was found to be an effective
alternative.   In fact, enough flexibility was shown under the
project to permit payment for travel and subsistence for parent
company staff to come to Lesotho to do local training; and
b) if potential investors are to see Lesotho's growing labor force
as a readily available asset, even a successfully administered
incentive is not a permanent substitute for systematic manpower
planning and an adequate training and vocational education
system. Lesotho now has a good, though underutilized, training
and vocational education program which should be considered in
the context of future industrial projects.
37.      SSE Develolment and BEDCO.  The development of micro and small and
medium scale enterprises is important in a country like Lesotho, given the
small market and the tendency for these enterprises to have relatively high
employment per dollar of capital invested.   It is not clear that the
appraisal mission's decision not to continue assistance to BEDCO should have
also ignored the need to address the capital or other needs of the micro and



- 13 -
SME sector which, given BEDCO's weaknesses, were going unattended.   In the
context of Bank assistance to the sector, BEDCO should be subject of a
thorough appraisal with recommendations for its reorganization and
strengthening.   In the meantime, the SME sector should not be ignored but
rather alternative financing and technical assistance mechanisms explored in
the context of the financial and education system. Further, sector strategy,
policy initiatives and incentive schemes should take SSE development
explicitly into account.
a. Sustainability
38.      Long-run sustainability of LNDC's operations was addressed during
project supervision by analysis of the potential for an LNDC bond issue as a
means to wean the institution from dependence on external and government
sources of funding.  The necessity to mobilize its own resources was high-
lighted as donor interest in LNDC waned somewhat with the on-set of construc-
tion of the high profile Lesotho Highlands Water Project.   The principal
concern regarding proceeding with resource mobilization efforts was, first,
LNDC's interest in continuing to provide loans at highly subsidized interest
rates which could not be achieved if its resources were raised on market
terms.  A second factor was the potentially high cost of these funds given
the extremely attractive tax exempt yields offered on Government Treasury
Bills, the competitive instrument with any potential LNDC bond issue.  The
crowding out effect of Treasury Bill pricing would subsequently be corrected,
and the issue of LNDC resource mobilization would be taken up in the third
IDA supported industrial sector project, however, with an emphasis on mobili-
zation of equity resources.
39.      The sustainability of LNDC's operations is generally affected by its
role as an investment promotion agent and its perceived need to compete for
foreign investment dollars by providing subsidized factory shells and loans.
LNDC's shopping center and brewery investments, strong cash generators, were
facilitated by the Government and were intended to cross-subsidize the loss-
making activities related to investment promotion. Nonetheless, the follow-
on project would address these issues by developing with the Government a
sustainable investment promotion effort consistent with LNDC's and the coun-
try's financial resources.  The long-run viability of LNDC's lending opera-
tions would also be taken up as conditionality in the follow-on project.
H. Bank Relationshi, with Borrower
40.      Bank project activity in Lesotho has become increasingly oriented to
addressing key sectoral constraints and implementing key reforms.   Lessons
learned during the course of implementation of the two LNDC projects have
contributed to Bank and Government collaboration on studies on the incentives
framework, the financial sector and SSE development, in preparation for the
Bank's third project to the sector. Specific reforms supported by the PFP and
SAP frameworks are: a) the introduction of new financial instruments to help
LNDC mobilize domestic resources and diversify its own operational resources;
b) reorientation of the incentives framework to more directly promote manu-
facturing, import substituting assembly-type operations, and exports to



- 14 -
lessen reliance on migrant romittances; end c) reinforeuont of LJC'o and
BEDCO's supporting role in the sector, lncluding estabUlebnt of an Invest-
ment Promotion Unit.
I.  Conwludi4R RSMark-
.41.     Efforts at institutional strengthening progressed well under the
project, but LNDC remains a fledgling organization both financially and *a a
development institution.  Further, its role within the financlal sector and
the industrial sector remains unclear in terms of its future efforts and
objectives. Future operations will benefit from sector work aend strategy
work which will contribute to a fuller knowledge of financl3l and industrial
sector dynamics, to a clearer definition of *trate-y and policy goals to be
achieved, and to a sharp definition of LNDC's corporate objectives within the
broader context of sector strategy and policy.



- 15 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT LSO 985
1.  IUTRODcTIoU
1.1 The Corporation.
Lesotho   National  Development  Corporation  (LNDC)  is  a   paraetatal
organisation established by the Government of Lesotho (GOL) in 1967.
The aims and objectives of the Corporation as detailed in the LNDC Act
of 1967, are primarily to promote the development of industry and
commerce in Lesotho. The Corporation interprets its role as that of a
catalyst in the stimulation of investment in beth manufacturing and
commerce   by   both  foreign  and   indigeneous   entrepreneurs.    The
corporation's customers are high net worth investors to whom it offers a
broad range of back-stopping services and financial assistance including
the provision of serviced industrial sites, factory buildings and. long-
term  loans  and  guarantees.   In  this regard,  the  LNDC  acts  as  a
Development Finance Institution. The Corporation also participates in
equity in those projects considered of strategic importance to the.
national economy.
The Corporation falls under the auspicies of the Ministry of Trade and
Industry, which is responsible for providing overall policy direction on
all-aspects of industrial development.  In August 1988, LNDC employed 98
people  sad  was  organised  into  three  Directorates  Viz:    planning
Programing and Operations, Finance and Audit, Administrative and
Technical Support Services. The Organization structure in result of a
recent reorganization.



- 16 -
Capital & Sourcea of Fiusae
Until 1985, the GOL was the sole shareholder of the H4 million
issued share capital of the Corporation. In 1986, negotiations werw
concluded with DEG for their subscription of 1 million shares of one
Maloti each. During the same year the LNDC Board further authorised the
conversion of MS million of capital reserves to share capital to be
issued to GOL. Consequently the issued capital was increased from
M4million to M10million. This issued Share Capital was subscribed as
follows:- 49million ordinary shares for Lesotho Government and for DEG
MI million reedemable preference with an option of convertion to
ordinary at Par.
To improve the corporations equity base and facilita'.e further cash
injections, the LNDC Board of Directors in Juae 1938, approved an
increase of the Corporation's authbrised share capital. from H1O million
to M20 million shares of one maloti each. The addit..ntal share  capital
will comprise nine million ordinAry shares to be issww.A to the Lesotho
Government through. capitalisation of reserves and oLe million six
percent  cumulative redeemable preference shares subscribed for cash  to
DEG.  The new shareholding structure is therefore GOL HI8  million  and
DEG H2 million. An additional M2million of DEG funds that will be made
available will be subscribed to LNDC in the form of income notes that
may be converted to equity capital in future.
In addition to receiving  iovernnent subvention, the Corporation  enjoys
financial  support from multilateral and bilateral donor agencies.   The
following have participated in providing financial assistance to the
Corporation : ADD, EIB, IDA and ODA. The Corporation has now wiped off



- 17 -
all its losses and is now able to generate profits t&at are available
for development purposes.
The LNDC board of Directors.
The Board.of Directors of the LNDC comprises the Minister of Trade and
Industry as Chairman. seven members including the Minister of Finance
and the Minister of Planning and Economic Analysis, representatives   of
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and DEG, a member of the
executive of the Lesotho Chamber of Commerce and Industry and three ex
officio  advisers  who are Principal Secretary of  the   Ministries  of
Trade and Industry . Planning and Finance. The Board of Directors is
the governing body of the Corporation with the responsibility for
setting policy for LNDC and ensuring that Management effectively
implements such policy.
UIDC Project FinP:D8 Guidelines
The Corporation provides short, medium and long term subcommerclal loans
to projects at rates appreciably below the market rates. In extending
such assistance, LNDC is generally guided by the following broad
principles:
-    loans (and guarantees) should be covered by acceptable securities
-    interest  rates  charged should earn a reasonable  return  to
cover the Corporation's cost of borrowing and administration
-    total financial contribution (loans, equity and guarantees)
by LNDC should normally not exceed 60% of the total project cost.
-    Total loan exposure of LNDC in any one project not to exceed 20% of



- 18 -
the net worth of the corporation
grace period  based on the project's normal capacity
built-up but does not normally exceed 2 years.
Borrower must have reasonable equity base
The borrower to provide regular financial accounts
LNDC must have a seat in the companies Board of Directors.
In assessing proposals for LNDC's participation and financial assistance,
the Corporation takes into account the project's inherent financial
viability, its contribution to the macroeconomy and the promoter's
credit worthiness.
The Corporation conducts a detailed appraisal of projects prior to
entering into any commitments for assistance in order to establish
conclusively that it meets the broad criteria outlined above.
Macro Eco_mic Settin  over Credt Lin  _eriod
Struct re of the Fconmo.
Lesotho  is an enclave within the Republic of South Africa  (RSA).   The
economy  is  sparsely  endowed with natural  resources.   Its  principal
resource is upstream water which will begin to be exploited under the
Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP). Agriculture is an important
sector within Lesotho's economy contributing to income and employment
for at least 60-70% of all households in the country and accounting for
about  one fifth of GDP and nearly 60% of merchanise exports.   However,
the potential for the development of this sector is constrained by a
number of factors notably: (i) the limited availability of arable land,



-19 -
(it) low fstrmig productivity associated with poor quality of land and
more attractive employment opportunities especially in neighboring RSA,
which offer substantially higher incomes than those obtainable from
domestic fatring, (iII) a system of land tenure that encourages
overgrazing and ineffeclent use of arable land. (v) extensive soil
erosion  and  Cv) uncertain climatic conditions.   Lesotho's  industrial
base is at an emerging stage and its potential is limited by the small
domestic mrket, dependence on Imported raw materials, and inadequatecy
of entrepreneurial skills and financial resources.
Lesotho's geographical position has led to the evolution of close economic
and institutional links with South Africa. Lesotho is a member of the
South  Aftlerin Custom  Union (SACU).  It is also a member of the  Common
"Ienetary Area (CXA) and its currency the loti is pegged at par to the
South African rod.
The exchange system of Lesotho is free of restrictions on payments and
transfers  for current international transactions.   These  arrangements
and   interlinkaes,   bowever. limit   the   macroeconomic   policies,
particularly with respect to monetary and fiscal policies. Lesotho also
has larg to p.rt requiremnts for both consumption and capital formation.
and a reLatively low level of exports relative to GDP. In general key
fiasacial lndictors such as interest rates and minimum prices of
agricultral products are adjusted in response to related price
developments in South Africa.
Lasotalos fisal structure is weak. More than balf the Government's
reven   cas  from SACU receipts, which represent a source  over which
lAsotbo baa    cotrol and which are received with a two-year lag.  The
domstic   vem   hae is naow ad eaKibits  large  cyclical  swings,



- 20 -
reflecting migrant workers' remittances, which are very volatile and
subject to economic and political developments in South Africa.
The external sector is characterized by reliance on migrant workers'
remittances, while merchandise exports have remained insignificant and
imports  substantial.   With  the  rapid  growth  in debt   (especially
nonconcessional) in the early 1980s, the external debt burden has more
than doubled a situation aggravated by collapse of the Rand currency.
Thus, efforts to ensure balance of payments viability in the long run
focus on the expansion and diversification of the productive base in
order to expand merchandise exports.
Lesotho is currently embarking on its largest undertaking to date
through  development of its surplus water resources for export to  South
Africa through the Lesotho Highlands Water project (LHWP) that is
estimated  to cost about US$2.0 billion (at 1985 prices).   Among  other
objectives. it is principally geared to provide water supply to the RSA
and generate electricity for domestic use. This project will involve
harnessing the fast-flowing waters of the Orange Rive system and
transferring about one half of their flow to South Africa through an
elaborate system of tunnels. The principal benefit to Lesotho would be
in the form of water royalties, that will accrue annually and the
present value of which is approximately US$0.75 billion. Based on the
current population of 1.7m people, the realisation of this revenue will
considerably enhance the per capita incomes and significantly contribute
to  the  domestic funding of development programmes.   In  addition' the
project is expected to have spin-offs for Lesotho in the form of
hydroelectric power generation and irrigation, and in activities such as
services, secondary industry, fishing, and tourism.



- 21 -
Trem  in Eco.iic Perforomce During Period of Credit ISO
The Lesotho economy performed relatively well during the last decade
whlen GDP and GNP grew at an annual average rate of over 7% and 8%
respectively. This was largely due to increases in investments, migrant
labor remittances, diamond export earnings, external assistance and SACU
revenue. The economy experienced no major fiscal or external imbalances
then.   During the 1980's however, performance has been  poor.   Between
1980 and 1986, real GDP grew at an annual average rate of 2%, implying a
drop in per capita GDP. The low growth rate for the 1980's was largely
due  to  the  severe drought which had  its  greatest  adverse  economic
effects in 1983/84 and the closure of the Letseng la Terai diamond mine.
Preliminary estimates for 1987 indicate an improved performance of 4.7%
growth by the domestic economy. In general, the economic situation has
deteriorated in recent years. Economic activity has slowed, the current
account has grown substantially and the situation reflects the long term
s:tuctural weaknesses  facing the economy.  Consequently,  the   Fourth
Five Year Development Plan covering the period 1986/87 - 1990/91 calls
for medium term macroeconomic policies aimed to restore and sustain
domestic economic growth. The quantitative medium term targets are to
generate an average annual growth rate of 4% in real GDP during the Plan
period.
The Industri  Sector
The primary sector of the Lesotho economy is Agriculture. As it moves
away from Agricultural base, Lesotho is pursuing a dynamic programme  of
industrialisation through private enterprise. The Government realises
that industry must eventually supply the key to generate wealth, sad  to



- 22 -
this end actively invites foreign investors to participate with local
entrepreneurs in the realisation of the country's industrialisation
programme.   Despite general poor overall performance in the 1980's,  9%
growth in industry has been the fastest of all sectors of the economy.
Since Lesotho has very few natural resources, raw materials available
are   insufficient  to  provide  for  the  requirements   of   industry.
Industries therefore depend heavily on imported raw materials. Although
Lesotho is sparsely endowed with natural resources, the country has a
latent surplus of water resources which represent a major development
challenge for the country through the massive Lesotho Highlands Water
Project  (LHMP).   From  the  industrial  point  of  view,  the  biggest
challenge is to establish satellite investments to supply the project
with material inputs.
All in all industrial development in Lesotho is geared towards the
establishment   of  export-oriented  manufacturing    enterprises.    In
principle any export-oriented project found suitable for Lesotho will be
encouraged,  provided it satisfies the established criteria  related  to
employment  creation,  foreign exchange benefits and the  importance  of
transfer of technology and know-how.
The ownership structure of medium to large scale enterprises indicates
that the companies are predominantly foreign owned. The foreign owned
companies are almost solely production units or subsidiary companies
with parent companies elsewhere. These companies were attracted to
Lesotho largely because of the benefits accruing from the incentive
package offered by the Lesotho government.



- 23 -
The growth of the industrial sector has however been erratic, and its
share  of  GDP  has  continued to  be  modest.   The  earliest  policies
concentrated  on  import  substitution  projects.  However,  from   1977
conscious attempts were made to attract labour intensive export oriented
projects (eg. clothing and footwear). A constant priority has been the
development  of food and beverage and agro-industrial projects e.g.   The
Fruit and Vegetable Cannery, Lesotho Brewing Company, Lesotho Milling
and Lesotho Flour Mills, and the processing of Lesotho's largest export
wool and mohair that has hitherto been exported in raw state.
It is estimated (June 1987) that 7,991 people are employed in the medium
scale manufacturing sector. The majority are employed in the labour
intensive clothing and footwear sector which has been growing rapidly.
The food and beverage sector accounts for 28X of the total employment.
Progress in the development of industrial infrastructure has been
satisfactory but needs to be excellerated due to current demand. For
medium and large scale activities there are currently three industrial
estates,   Maseru, Maputsoe and Thetsane.  There are plans to develop  a
new 23.3 hectares estate at Ha Nyenye near Haputsoe and extend the
Maseru  and Thetsane estate.  The small scale manufacturing  sector  has
estates at Sebaboleng (Maseru), Mohale's Hoek and Leribe under the
auspices of BEDCO.
In order to facilitate the industrial development of Lesotho literally
from first base at independence the Government established the Lesotho
National Development Corporation (LNDC) as a statutory body in 1967.
Concurrently the wider framework for industrial growth was established,
this included the industrial licencing Act and the Pioneer Industries



- 24 -
Encouragement Act. At the beginning, LNDC interpreted its role as being
a  holding  company  by  directly  promoting  projects  and   appointing
managers. This approach has now changed with the Corporation acting
more as a Development Finance Institution which aims at promoting
Lesotho as a desirable location for manufacturing investment and to
provide  serviced  sites,  factory  buildings  and  concessionary   loan
financing,  and  in  some selective case the purchase  of  equity.   The
corporation has begun to privatise part of its equity portfolio as a
move to allow the private sector to play a leading role in the whole
process.
The  development  of  indigeneous entrepreneurs was  encouraged  by  the
establisment of the Basotho Enterprise Development Corporation (BEDCO)
in 1975 as a subsidiary of LNDC until 1980 when it became a separate
parastatal. BEDCO compliments the role payed by LNDC in supporting
small scale Basotho owned enterprises by providing them with loans
infrastructure, and technical and business services.
The  two  parastatals  represent  the major  implementing  arms   of  the
Government industrial policy. LNDC focuses on projects requiring an
investment of M250,000 and more, while BEDCO on those below that figure.
In its effort to promote Investment into Lesotho, the Government of
Lesotho offers a package of incentives which include the following :-
-    industrial sites for rental
-    purpose built factories for rental
-    cost effective labour
-    Tax holiday



- 25 -
free movement of capital
free access to the EEC and Southern African Customs
Union (SACU) markets. as well as concessionary access to USA,
Scandinavia. PTA, etc.
worldwide international recognition.
The LVDC is structured to operate as a "one-stop service" such that
most of the needs for an investor could be dealt with by the
various professional divisions of the Corporation. The Corporation
acts as link with all government departments such as labor,
customs,  licencing  board  to  procure  approvals  necessary   for
commencement of business. This reduces substantially the lead time
between  indication  to  invest  and  actual  procurement  of   the
necessary approvals to commence business.
The Financil Sector
In December 1974, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and the RSA entered into
a tripartite agreement establishing the Rand Monetary Area (RMA) which
was replaced by the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement in 1986 after
Botswana   bad  withdrawn.   The  CMA  agreement  relates  to   monetary
caoperation and common exchange control policies or arrangements to be
implemented by the participating countries. The main aspects covered in
the agreement are:
(i) issue of currencies
(ii) movement of funds within the Area
(iii)access to South African money and capital markets
(iv) foreign exchange arrangements.



- 26 -
During the first thirteen years of independence. Lesotho used the South
African currency - the rand as the sole legal tender. Later in 1979 a
bilateral agreement was signed between Lesotho and the RSA providing for
the launching of Lesotho's new currency - the Loti which is backed 100%
by the rand and is freely convertible at par into rand in Lesotho.
Lesotho today operates a fairly sophisticated and well developed banking
and insurance sector which is closely involved in the expansion of
business within and outside Lesotho. Banking system in Lesotho comprise
the Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL). three commercial banks, four major
development finance institutions, and cooperative credit unions.
The Central Bank of Lesotho was established in 1982 to replace the
previous Lesotho Monetary Authority. It performs functions relating to
the   supervision   of   commercial  banks   and   specified   financial
institutions.   As  per Section 39 of the Central Bank  of  Lesotho  Act
1978, the Bank serves as Commissioner of Financial Institutions in terms
of the Financial Institutions Act 1973, and also as Commissioner of
Building Financing Institutions in terms of the Building Finance
Institutions Act 1976. In this capacity, the Bank exercises supervision
over the financial institutions in the country. The primary purpose of
supervision is to promote a sound efficient banking system in the
country.
In  recognition of the status   and responsibility of the Central  Bank
of Lesotho as the monetary authority of the country, the CMA has allowed
the Bank increased flexibility and discretion in the management of its
foreign exchange reserves and dealings.



- 27 -
Under the RMA agreement the CBL was also required to keep all its
foreign exchange reserves in rand currency except some limited amounts
to meet its day to day operations outside the Area. The new agreement
however, allows the bank to hold currencies other than the rand to the
extent of 35 percent of the total of its gold and foreign exchange
reserves. The agreement also provides for increases in this ratio
when needed, subject to prior consultation with the South African
Reserve Bank.
The commercial banks have an extensive network of branches and agencies
throughout the country bringing modern banking services to the rural
comuurities.
According to the Central Bank's reports on monetary developments money
supply (M2) defined as currency in circulation , demand, call, savings
and fixed deposits plus deferred pay fund has been growing continuously
since  1980  through  1983  after  which  the  growth  rate   diminished
progressively. Between 1983 and 1987, the growth rate has declined from
17% in 1983 to 9.1% in 1987. Domestic credit has been growing, rapidly
recently.   It grew from M125.5m in 1984 to 'M285.1m in 1987.  Credit  to
the  private sector followed a downward trend from M13.4m to M7.6m  over
the same period.
An increasing proportion of domestic credit went to Government to
finance the rising budget deficit. This proportion has increased from
42% in 1984 to 61% in 1987. A notable feature in 1987 was a significant
increase  in  credit  to  the  enterprise  sector  (21.2%) which   was
achieved after stagnation in the two previous years.



- 28 -
The consolidated balance sheet of the commercial banks highlights a high
degree of liquidity until 1984, after which it began to decline.
Although the level of liquidity has somewhat declined, the commercial
banks  still have large amounts of unused funds which still reflects   a
continued difficulty to access these funds because of the conservative
banking  practises.   However net foreign assets of the  banking  system
have been growing steadily at an annual average rate of 1% between 1984
and 1987.
Interest rates in Lesotho continue to be influenced by developments in
the South African money markets and therefore follow those of South
Africa. Rates in Lesotho are however generally lower than those of
South Africa.
The period under review has been characterized by an unprecedented
decline in the value of the domestic currency in relation to major
international   currencies.    While   this   situation   has   provided
opportunities for the export led industrial growth. it has also
resulted   in  a  devastating  back-lash  as  most  of  the  iaputs   in
manufacturing industry are imported due to the paucity of the natural
resource base of Lesotho.
Review of IDA's assistance to L7DC
The IDA's involvement with LNDC started in 1973. Between 1973 and 1976
IDA provided technical assistance and advise on policies and procedures
to the corporation . In 1976, the Government of Lesotho requested IDA
to provide financial assistance to LNDC and BEDCO a then newly



- 29 -
established susbidiary of LNDC which became a separate parastatal in
1980.   The first credit (702-LSO) provided a US$2.5 millinn  to  assist
the two crganisations in their industrialisation ef:orts. The loan was
advanced to Lesotho Government and on lent to LNDC and BEDCO at 8.5%
and 7% respectively. LNDC utilised this line of credit for fourteen
projects and BEDCO thirty one. Both LNDC and BEDCO were to onlend the
proceeds of the credit for a minimum of 121.
Credit 702-LSO had two objectives :
(i)  to facilitate the development of non agricultural enterprises in Lesotho
through the provision of foreign exchange resource for extending term
financing to small, medium and large scale projects in Lesotho, thereby
creating employment opportunities locally for the expanding labor force
(ii) to  further  the development of LNDC and BEDCO as  effective  development
instit.tions and financial intermediaries.
The project was fully disbursed by December 1982, about one and half
years behind schedule. Credit 702 was followed by credit 985-LSO based
on an appraisal report no: 2670-LSO dated 22nd October 1979 which
recommended a credit line of US$4 million, $3.7m of which would finance
investment projects. and $O.3million to finance staff and workers
training.   This  amount  was onlend to LNDC  under  a  subsidiary  loan
agreement with the GOL. Credit 985-LSO closed on June 30, 1987 even
though the original closing date was June 30th 1984. As at 31st December
1987, the account reflected an uncommitted balance of USS37,768.8.
The purpose of the project was to assist Lesotho Government through LNDC
to finance productive investment projects that would contribute to the



-30-
economic development of the country, and to finance training of LNDC's
Basotho   employees  as  well  as  skilled  and   semi-skilled   Basotho
technicians and workers of new enterprises establishing in Lesotho.
II PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARAIO NAD APPRAIUSL
In May 1979, an IDA mission visited Lesotho to appraise a second
IDA  project  (credit  985  currently  under  review  in  this   project
completion report). The mission reviewed the progress made by LNDC. and
BEDCO under the first credit facility 702-LS0. their future prospects,
and resource requirements. Since the appraisal and identification was
carried  out  by the Bank. the role of the LNDC was  to  facilitate  the
necessary information for the appraisal. The mission found that BEDCO's
resources then. and expected new comitments, would be sufficient to
meet its projected needs through 1982, and that there would therefore be
no  need for any further IDA assistance  to the Corporation  then.   The
circumstances  that gave rise to the need for the project can   directly
be  derived  from  the  objectives of the project as  outlined  in  the
appraisal report.
The appraisal report recomended an IDA credit of US$4.0 million to
the Government of Lesotho to be passed on to LKDC. US$3.7 of this would
be used to finance investment projects and $0.3 for financing staff and
workers  training.   Accordig  to the mission  report  the  recommended
project was aimed at "assisting LNDC in further strengthening itself as
an institution". The mission felt that while considerable progress had
been made in this area under the first line of credit - (702 LSO) "there
was  need  for further improvements to bring LNDC up to the level  of  a



- 31 -
dynamic Basotho run institution providing leadership in industrial,
tourism and commercial development in Lesotho, and able on its own
financial strengths to mobilise the needed financial resourses from
within and outside Lesotho for such development".
At the time of appraisal, LNDC was on lending at 12X p.a on all loans.
In addition. a 1% rate was charged on behalf of the Government for
bearing the foreign exchange risks, thus making the effective rate on
sub-loans   13X p.a.  In view of the then declining levels  of  interest
rates within the RMA, LNDC's rates were considered by the mission among
the highest and could prove to be uncompetitive to long term lending
rates for investors and hence a constraint that could deter investors
from borrowing. In view of these and other factors, IDA recommended a
minimum on-lending rate of 11% on all loans under the proposed line of
credit.   The foreign exchange charge of 1% would however be  maintained
thus bringing the cost of borrowing to 12X p.a. In addition, the
mission noted the financial environment in which LNDC operated which
dictated flexible interest rate policies and hence the need for a
periodic review of the recommended lending rate during the tenure of the
credit line. Particular emphasis was made on the problem that credit
worthiness of the loan portfolio could create.
Given the past record of LNDC's management instability and its heavy
dependence on expatriate staff, during the appraisal period, the mission
was satisfied with management by the able leadership of the first
Mosotho Managing Director recruited in 1977. The mission was also
content with the management system and organisational structure which
streamlined  the  previously  complex  structures  and  was   considered



-32 -
appropriate and functioning efficiently. The mission however noted that
constant fluctuations in key staff could in the long run constitute a
high risk for LNDC's competence.
III. INPLESEXTATIO  UrIoISrTIO  OF amK CREDIT
General Ovwrview
Development Credit No          :   0985- 0 LSO
Borrower                      :   Kingdom of Lesotho
Credit Agreement Date              11th July, 1988
Closing Date                       30th June 1984   After extensions
Original Credit Amount        :   US$4.million       After extensions
Interest rate (onlending to    :   6X per annum
LNDC)
Commitment Deadline                30th June, 1987
Disbursement Dealine          :   31st December 1987
Uncomitted balance            :   USS 537,678.8
Undisbursed Balance                1001 disbursed.
Foreign Exchange Risk fee          1X
Service Charge Rate           :   3/4%
Total Number of Approvals     :   44
Investment Projects      :         17
Staff Training                     13
Workers Training                   14
The credit had three components: investments in loans and buildings,
LNDC staff and industrial workers training. At the request of the LNDC
Management IDA approved funding for construction of advance factory
shells.   The Bank appreciated the fact that whereas investors are  free



- 33 -
to erect their own factory buildings most investors who come to Lesotho
do not invest in real estate and they invariably require LNDC to finance
buildings. This is largely because of the very stiff competion offered
by neigbouring states, particularly RSA and Swaziland, in providing
industrial buildings for rent as one of the major incentives for
attracting investors.
After the bank allowed this flexibility to finance advance factory
shells, commitment levels on the line of credit progressed much faster.
This was an indication that the Corporation was at last providing'
the right service to its customers as circumstances in the regional
competition for investment had changed.
The stiff competition in providing industrial building required that
such buildings should be readily available on demand. At this time most
footloose industries locating from RSA were not desperate for financial
assistance, but sought such readily available buildings to immediately
move into.
No funds had been allocated for the purpose of financing studies under
the line of credit. Table one gives a summary of projects financed from
the credit under review.



- 34 -
Table 1
SUMMARY OF PROJECTS FINANCED FROM CREDIT 985-LSO
IDA
APPROVAL NO:    PROJECT              ACTIVITY           FINANCING  (USS)   STATUS
Al                 Lesotho Clothing   Clothing             87181            in operation
A2                 Freightpak          Storage and         37491            out of
warehouse
A3                 Gallant             Clothing            214715           in operation
A5                 Metro               Wholesale           307794           in operation
A6                 Metro               Wholesale           296977           in operation
A7                 Focus               Clothing            48005            in operation
A8                 Cashbuild           Building material  158128            in operation
A9                 Mustang             Clothing            357082           in operation
A10                Steelquip           Iron and steel      164187           out of  "
All                Lesotho Clothing   Clothing             272747           in operation
A14                Factory  shells    Buildings            630898    fully occupied
A15                Thaba Tseka         h'holesale          152159          in operation
A16                Factory shell       building            291.901         occupied
B3                 Lesotho Knitwear   Clothing              45630          out of
B4                 LKM                 socks                19877          out of  n
B5                 Tsitoe              clothing             1391           out of
Staff               LNDC                          Complete except
B1-15              Training            Staff training      141724        (2ST-Bl-15)
3WT-CI-1           Lesotho Clothing   Clothing             15709           in operation
2          Gallant             Clothing             10347           in operation
3          Gattis Ice Cream   Ice-cream, drinks  6539               in operation
4          Royal Crown         Jewellery            18044           in operation
5          Pal Crown           Leather products   9024              in operation
8          Lesotho Knitwear   Clothing             59587           out of
9          Papillon            Rugs                7773             out of
10          Focus               Clothing            10793           in operation
12          Peacock             Clothing            9349            out of  "
14          Shoecomp            Shoes               24844           in operation
s15         Natural Shoes       Shoes               2749            in operation
16          Glennit Textiles   Clothing             8899            out of  "
17          Golden Textiles    Clothing             11895           out of  "
18          Tsitoe              Clothing            1391            out of  n
Performanee of Sub Projects
As indicated earlier, the proceeds of credit 885-LSO were used to
finance 17 projects under category A, investment projects including
loans  and buildings, 13 under category B - staff training and  14  under
workers training.



- 35 -
For all projects approved, there are no undisbursed balances.
Eighteen of the projects are in the clothing footwear and leather
sector, one in the services, three in the trading and the balance
in  other  sectors  including  engineering  and  h.andicrafts.   The
factory buildings are all occupied. The current rental on all new
2
standard  factory units in the various estates is H4.80/m/   month,
subject to an annual escalation of 7.5%.
The following section hig8lights performance and status of projects
financed under the line of credit.
APPROVAL -0.
A-1  LESOTBO C1O UG  -  Loan        :   $87,181
-  Training  :  $34,647
A very successful clothing manufacturing company established in 1981
with  continual  growth  trend.   Financial  performance  summarized  as
follows:
1985           1986             1987
Sales                     2 930 506      2 464 513        9 554 804
Gross Profit:             1 132 296      2 821 402        3 584 624
Net Profit  :               450 652        542 891          390 242
The  drop  in net profit in 1987 was due to an increase in  freight  and
bank  charges.   On account of the sanctions imposed  on  South  Africa,
direct freight from South Africa to the USA is no longer possible. The
company markets it product entirely in the US and this increased its



- 36 -
freight costs considerably. As far as bank charges are concerned the
local  bank  has  increased clearance costs  on  foreign  cheques.   The
increase  in these two items of cost total some M500,000.   The  company
currently  employs  570  people.   Training  for  the  160  workers  was
successfully completed. Further expansions have recently i)een approved
by LNDC.
2.   GALLANT CLOTHUrG    Loan          $ 214,715
Training : $ 10.347
One   of   the  first  clothing  companies  to  establish   in   Lesotho
characterized by stable manAgement and labour force. The company was
established in 1977. Gallant's financial performance is summarized
below
1985         1986         1987        Dec 1987
Sales               4 370 916    3 744 440   4 868 461   4 027 630
Gross Profit         1 988 871    1 486 387   1 869 441   1 803 600
Net Profit
(Loss)                296 874      (8 193)        5 813      353 189
1986  and 1987 were particularly bad years for the clothing industry  in
South  Africa, where the company sells most of its products.   This  was
particularly in the middle to up market segments. The company has now
stabilised in profitability and has started a joint venture subsidiary
company in Lesotho with a reputable international company to diversify
its  product  range.   The  160  trainees  successfully  completed   the
training.



- 37 -
3.   METRO LES0T5       Building:   S 307,797
Building:   S 296,997
Metro is a very successful retail operations owned 50% by LND LIH and Metro
Group South Africa. Up until June 1987 the Metro Lesotho Group included
groceries. hardware. and clothing wholesaling.
Financial performance of Metro Lesotho over the past three years. is
summarised  below
(MALOTI)
1985           1986            1987
Sales           :        46 774 501      59 516 815      63 621 582
Gross Profit   :          4 587 464       5 472 689       5 122 546
Net Profit    :             924 909       1 070 992       2 598 537
4.  FOCUS ClOETI      Loan:  S48.00S
Focus  waS established in 1984 to manufacture chi1dren's clothing.   The
company has been operating satisfactorily as indicated by the financial
summary performance.
(IAWXI)
(35 moths)                     198
19"                           1986
Sales              :       996 617                  1 591 727
Gross Profit                47 701                    669 736
Net Profit
(Loss)            :       (280 068)                   324 994



- 38 -
The company now has its cost of production under control and is on the
road to successful operation. The training programme was partially
implemented as no claims were received before the December deadline.
5.   NITANG SHOeS   Loan:   $357,082
A  very  successful  shoe manufacturing  company  as  evidenced  by  two
successive  expansions  in  1985  and  1988.   The  1988   expansion  is
currently under way. The company employs 900 people and produces 6 000
pairs of shoes a day.
The financial performance is shown below
(14 months to Dec)
1985           1986          1987
Sales                     3 213 026            8 142 762    10 863 788
Gross Profit   :            605 617            2 304 352     4 425 378
Net Profit     :            242 441              879 808     2 431 614
6.   TERA-TSEU  UNDMDLAI     Building  : S152,159
A recent wholesale operations established late in 1987 in the mountains
at Thaba-Tseka to provide facilities to the trading community, and the
community as a whole.
It is still too early to comment meaningfully on its fivancial
performance. However,  it  is  under  the  experienced  and   coripetent
manAgement of the loag-established Fraser Group.   The wholesale emprloys
35 people.
7.  luOMo DhMErtA   Loan :  $45,630
This  company was established in 1984 to knit jerseys for export.   From



- 39 -
inception the company experienced considerable management problems which
in turn caused financial difficulties. These problems seemed difficult
to overcome and by 1988 when the finances of the company were not
improving, the promoters were forced by its major creditor, - Barclays
Bank  threatened   liquidation and  the company  promoter  paid  the
obligation.   Thereafter the promoters decided to suspend operations  in
July   while  they  mobilize  funds  and  negotiate  a   joint   venture
arrangement. The company is mobilizing to resume operations in January
1989. The company's financial performance is summarised below:
(MALOTI)
(16 months)                          (9 months to
Sales                200 475              1986             Dec 1987)
Gross Profit
(Loss)               (86 500)             (47 659)        ( 38 929)
Net Loss            (184 279)            (205 150)        (135 884)
Lesotho knitwear trained 230 workers. It however could not meet the
December deadline for its final claims of the second year of training.
8.   CAILD   Building : $ 158,125
Prior  to  May 1986, Cashbuild was part of Metro Lesotho.  It  was  then
decided that Cashbuild be separated from Metro. The project supplies
building materials for the local market. Below is a summary of the
company's financial performance.



-40 -
(Eoti)
(2 months)
1986               1987
Sales           :         1 569 716            10 199 699
Gross Profit                 70 698               481 853
Net Profit      :            44 186               259 716
9.   SgOECOMP IED5sTRI3       Training:  $24,844
Shoecomp  Industries  was incorporated in 1985.   Shoecomp  manufactures
high quality fashionable ladies and men's shoes and shoe components like
heels, insoles, outer soles as well as handbags to match some of the
shoes.
The company has sustained losses of M434 607 and M169 965 in 1986 and
1987 respectively. The situation is slightly improving as the company
has now allocated about M100 000 for promoting of its products through
South Africa in Portuguese newspapers, Research has been conducted in
Europe and Nordic countries as well. At the moment the company employs
87 workers. 70 of whom benefitted from the training grant and an
additional 40 trained at the company's expense.
10.  GATMI'S ICE CREA      Training   $6.539
The company started operating in 1982 with a capital investment of H867
000  all  of  which was raised by the  promoters.   The  investment  was
increased  to  H960 000.  The company's performance is  profitable.   It
employs 203 local workers.



- 41 -
11.  NATURUL SHOE COKPhAT   Training $2,749
The company was established in 1985. The company produces footwear for
the lower market sector. The company's produce is mainly for export to
the Republic of South Africa. The company's performance is quite
profitable. The company has been able to settle the LNDC's 6 year loan.
in  the  third  year  of the loan's operation.   It  employs  68  inside
employees and 140 outside employees. Training approved for the 51
workers was completed.
LIQUIDATE  AND CLOSED CO1PANIES FINJNCED UNDE  CREDIT 985-LSO
STEELUIrP   Loan : $208,737
This   was  an  engineering  company  that   manufactured   agricultural
implements  such  as  cultivators  and  scot  carts.   The  company  was
successful   but   experienced  management  problems   that   eventually
translated into very difficult financial and labour relations problems.
This company closed down in April 1988. The company affairs are under
investigation by a liquidator.
F311I  PARK I NUT3&TIONAL   Building : $37,497
Freight Park was a freight company that was established in Lesotho. The
company  could  not compete successfully with a new company  that moved
into  Lesotho  under  Manica Freight International.   Freight  Park  was
eventually taken over by Manica Freight. The IDA credit had financed a
building for Freight Park and this is being used by Manica Freight.



- 42 -
TSITOL CLOTHING Training : $1,391
Tsitoe Clothing was established to manufacture of embroidery clothing
for   children.   The  company  experienced  production  and   marketing
difficulties mainly due to inadequate support from the promoting company
that is based in Cape Town in South Africa, The problem of this company
culminated in its liquidation in 1987. At the time of liquidation about
40% of the total training grant had been disbursed.
APEX KNITTING I LKK (PTm) LTD   Loan  : $19,877
This  company was established to manufacture men's socks.   The  company
had very serious technical problems. The production technician was
recruited from the United Kingdom since this skill is very scarce in
Southern  Africa  in  the  sock making  industry.   Because  of  serious
management  problems the production technician left the  company.   The
promoter could not get a replacement quickly and as a result production
broke down. The manager and promoter of the project abandoned it and
LKDC  took  it  over  to liquidate  it.   The  liquidation  process  was
implemented in 1987.
PEACC  GAIMETS   Traububg         $9,349
This company was established 1984 to manufacture school uniforms.
Shortly after implementation it developed technical, marketing, and
general management problems. As these problems perpetuated, the capital
base  became  eroded.   It  become clear in 1986187  that   it  was  not
possible to save the company, hence shareholders decided to put it under
voluntary liquidation. Following the liquidation, the trained workers
were redeployed in other garment making companies.



-43 -
GLENNIT TELTIL (PTm) LTD Training $8.898
Glennit Textiles was established to manufacture mens underwear and to
produce  knitted  fabrics.   The  company  experienced  very   difficult
financing   problem  from  very  early  stage.   This  resulted  in   an
unmanageable cash-flow problem when the promoters could not support it
adequately.   The IDA contribution to this project was a training  grant
finance.   This  project  was  liquidated in  1986.   Only  M19,930  was
disbursed out of the M225,309 approved for training.
PAPILLON (PT!) LTD   Training  : $6,317
Papillon started operation in 1985 to manufacture bathroom sets and
rugs.   The  company  was  selling its produets  to  South  Africa.   It
voluntarily closed down its operations *,. July 1987 and paid all
outstanding debts.
GOLDEN TFXIMS Training $ 11,895
Golden Textiles started operations in January 1986 to manufacture
children's  and  ladies'  knitted  sweaters.   The  company  closed  its
operations in June 1988 because the size of its production was too
small and could not process orders. It was also difficult for the
company   to  compete  with  RSA  manufacturers  who   enjoy   certain
concessions which are not available in Lesotho. At the time of closure,
Golden Textiles had employed 64 workers, training approved under the
credit was still ongoing although the company was not able to meet the
December deadline.



- 44 -
FACTORY SHEKS PROGAMnR FINANC  USD    LSO 965  $ 922,799
Six Factory Shells of 1 OOOm each were financed under credit LSO 985.
They are all tenanted as follows:-
a)   LESO1D  TEXII
This is a company that manufactures men's casual and under wear for
export  to  bnth South Africa and the EEC countries.   The  company
today employs 130 people and is operating well.
b)   POLTEX (PTm) LTD
Poltex  stated  operations in November1986  to  manufacture   denim
Jeans  for  export to USA. The company is doing  very  well.   The
current level of employment is 500. It occupies two factory shells.
c)   TMEADR TECTUIJ  (Pn) TD
Tenleader started operations in November 1986 to manufacture t-
shirts for export to USA and Europe. The company currently employs
90 workers. The company is in process of consolidating operations.
d)   NrIoJA TZCIn
Norija Textiles is a project that manufactures T-Shirts, Golf
Shirts,  dresses.   It  currently  employs  157  people.   It   was
established in Lesotho by Kluk Textiles Industries in February 1988
to service both the local and export markets. The company started
very well and made a sales turnover of over H200 000 for the first
three months of operations ended 30th April 1988.   It is now projected
that Morija Textiles will employ 171 people by the end of this year
as against the initial 128 people projected to be employed within two
years from the date of comeoceeat of the cop cy' s operations.



- 45 -
e)   IUK TEXWIES
This is a project that will provide Fabric dying and finishing
facilities at a cost of M3.5 million. The project promoters have
already signed a lease for occupation of an IDA financed factory
shell.   The project will commence production around January  1989.
The reason for the delay is that additional factory space has to be
provided to accommodate the project. Construction of an additional
2
250m and a boiler house will be ready by December 1988.
luplentation Schedule
According to the agreement, the original closing date for subproject
submissions under credit 985 was June 30th 1982. At the time of expiry
only fourteen projects had been approved net of cancellations totalling
V-S$ 281,000. At this time the rate of commitment as well as drawdown
of the line of credit was slow because most projects submitted were
not acceptable to the Bank and indeed it took some time to substitute
new projects and get them through the required procedures to the point
where they can be committed. Secondly, and most importantly, 1982 was
the worst year in LNDC's operations as a result of the global economic
recession. This led to a drop in the corporation's pipeline projects.
Consequently, Government requested the bank to extend the closing date
of the credit facility by 12 months to June, 1983 and the request was
approved.
By June 1983, the line had not yet been fully committed and LNDC
requested for extension of the commitment date from June 1983 to December



- 46 -
1984 and the closing date for disbursement to be further extended from
June 1984 to June 1986.
By December 1984, it became necessary to seek another extension of the
closing dates for both commitments and disbursements from December 1984
to  December  1985 and from June to December  1986  respectively.   This
extension was deemed necessary to enable LNDC fully utilise the 2nd line
of credit. The principal reason for the relatively low utilisation of
the credit facility at that time was the withdrawal of a large sum in
respect of application for funding two projects Lintex and Papillon as
the  promoters  decided to implement them on a much small  scale.   LNDC
also experienced a bad year of investment promotion and as such, many
targets could not be met.
Consequently, by November 1985, an uncommitted balance of US$2.486m
existed.   Towards the end of 1985, a number of projects were  approved,
and experience indicated that the funds could be disbursed over 12-15
months.   LNDC  therefore  requested  a nine  months  extension  of  the
disbursement   deadline  to  June  1987,  to  enable  it   to   disburse
US$1,866.000  on  sub  projects that had been committed  by  then.   The
principal reason for this large undisbursed amount was the five
subprojects  approved w.thin the three months of the closing date.   The
six months allowed for disbursement was thus very short. Other causes
of  delays  for   disbursements had been  protracted  negotiations  with
promoters and longer training periods than anticipated leading to a
slower draw-down of funds.
The increase in the LNDC's level of activity after the recession of the
early eighty's resulted in many projects being processed in the last



-47 -
months  before the commitment deadline of December 1985.   Consequently,
the  Bank  granted a generous extension of the cowmitment date  to  June
1986 and a final disbursement date of December 1987.
From 1986, LNDC experienced an upsurge in demand from new investors
seeking both factory space and loan finance, in conjuction with requests
from established projects seeking additional factory space to expand
operations.   In  1987,  the  LNDC was facing  a  programme  of  capital
investment totalling !50million while by 1988, the investment  programme
stands at over M100 million. In particular, this upsurge in demand made
it necessary for the LNDC to provide new investors and expansions with
factory buildings and therefore expand the construction of factory
shells.
In addition to the phenomenal increase in the pipeline, the active
investment promotion campaign is expected to result in additional
projects expected to be implemented in the next two years.
IV.  OPERATING PRFORMANCE OVER TE PRJECT PERIOD
The  Corporation's operations over the 8 year credit period 1980    1988
is evaluated by the approval levels for either new or expansion
projects.   It had been projected that projects approval in  1980
would total M4.950 million. However, the actual level of approvals of
over that period. It had been projected that projects approval in 1980
would total M4.950 million. However, the actual level of approvals of
M12.6 million was well beyond the projected level. In 1981 the upward
trend was maintained when project target was M4.4 million and actual
approvals were 1412.83 million. In 1982 actual approvals were M7,678



- 48 -
million  again a positive variance above target of M4.7  million.   This
was considerably less than the previous year due to the 1982 recession
which adversely affected all forms of economic activity. The following
year 1983 approval performance showed a marked increase of about M6.5
million over the previous year and M8.9 million above target.
1984 experienced a lower approval record of M9.6 million than the
previous year but was beyond the M6.0 million target at the time of
appraisal.   It  is  clear from the  foregoing  comparison  that  LNDC's
performance in terms of actual project approvals was well above the
project targets over the period 1980-1984. There was however a very high
mortality rate on approved projects and some are now out of operation
or never took off for various reasons, a situation that reflects that
there were weaknesses at the time in the quality of projects promoted
for approval. This weakness in the pipeline resulted in a number of
projects approved but could not be successfully implemented. Investment
promotion concetrated more on the number than the quality of projects.
The   LNDC  has  entered  a  new  phase  that  is  charaterized  by   an
unprecedented burgeoning of investment activity. The present pipeline
is a substantial improvement on the project identification of the past
years.   This  development  is motivated principally  by  three  driving
forces viz; the impact of activity generated by the Lesotho Highlands
Water project, the changing international opportunities in the export
trade, and the improved investment incentive package offered by LNDC  to
project promoters. The increase in the pipeline projects, and therefore
the potential for a large investment program, has very profound
implications on the LNDC absorptive capacity. The Corporation screening



- 49 -
procedures in both appraisal of promoters and the projects themselves,
need to be commensurate with the level of activity envisaged. To this
end, a major re-organization of the Corporation has been put in place to
streamline control and follow-up procedures. The Corporation has been
implementing a vigorous training program for its professional staff to
enhance their capability in project appraisal which is now fully computerised.
The period 1985 to 1987 experienced an unprecedented further upward
trend in the level of approvals. In 1985 projects with an estimated
total cost of M19.5 million were approved compared to a lower amount of
M114.0 million achieved the following year 1986. In 1987 the highest
record of approvals was achieved when twenty four projects involving a
total  capital investment of M106 million were approved.   Xost  notable
among these approvals are five new projects, the wool and mohair
processing, sandstone, ceramic wall & tile, and edible oil projects
which utilise the local raw material base, thus representing a departure
from the traditional pattern of approving projects with great *reliance
on  imported  raw  materials.   At present.  five  of  the  new  project
approvals are already in operation. A major departure from the past
trend is that the increase in approvals is happening simultenously with
substantial increase in quality of approved projects. This is a basis
for a lasting impact on the macro-economic development of Lesotho.
V  FCL
The project set financial performance targets for the Corporation over
the period 1980-84 as reflected in table 2 below.



- 50 -
Table 2
Projected Income Statements
(M'OOOs)
Year ending March 31            1980       1981      1982      1983      1984
INCOME
Dividens                     217       243        262       303      359
Interest on Loans            290       416        555      708       895
Guarantee Interest            23        31         35        36       37
Rental                       447       612        825    1,057    1,335
other                         28        30         34        35       37
GROSS INCOME              1.005      1.332      1.711    2,139    2,663
EXPENSES
Wages and Salaries           215      247         284      327       376
Expenses for Promotion        80       92         106       122      140
Administrative Expenses    401        462         531      610       702
Depreciation                  13       13          13        13       13
Interest Payable             166      285         427      552       696
Armotization of Goodwill       2        2           2         2        2
TOTAL EXPENSES              877    1.101        1,363    1,626    1,929
Profit (loss) before
Provisions                   128     231          348      518       734
Provisions                   94      130          123      129       145
Net Profit (loss)             34     101          225      384       589
Table 3 below shows selected actual financial performance indicators by
the Corporation over the period 1980-1987. The Table reflects ttat



TABLE 3
LJDC  FINANCIAL  FZRFOENACzs- 1980 - 1986
1968      1987        1986      1985      1984       1983      1982      1l81
Operating Profit                  2229      1196        1478         41     (113)        92       (652)     466
Other Ordinary Income              28         63         292         1       245        396      (53)       170
Operatiag Profit                 2.257       1259        1770        42      132        488      (599)      636
Occreaselincrease on prc.visions
Against Attributable net            38       (250)       (162)      365       267       (1999)      (293)     326
Losses of subsidiaries
0SailmbL intcresL in uasobi.iaLed    3        (5)         101       (2'J)      196      (1I)1)     (226)   (318)
companies         .                                                                      
Profit tor Year               2.295         1004        1709       378       595       (1612)    (1118)    (8)
Aecumulated Profit/Loss at   1.653           649       (2074)    (2452)    (3047)    (1435)    (110)   (1302)
beggining of Yeair
Profit Year Adjustmett       ------                    1014       ------   --------    1014       (1302)
Profit
Aecumulated Profit (Loss)    3.984          1653        649       (2074)    (2452)    (3047)    (2428)   (1510)
at enid of *car
1982 loas adjusted by transfer of reserves
hence lqss of 1434 carried forward



- 52 -
LNDC's performance the period 1980-84 has been below expectations at the
time credit 985 was being appraised. The corporation operated at a loss
increasing from M1.3 million to M2.074 million through the four years.
as  against  the projected profit from M1.0 million to M2.6  million  in
this period.
The Corporation performance improved in later years and this improved
performance was maintained through 1987.   The table shows that 1988 was
the most successful year when the Corporation recorded profits of M2.295
million.
Status of Compliance with Covenats to Credit 985 - LSO
Covenant                                          Status
Prior to any proposed amendment                       In compliance
to the LNDC Act, Government shall
inform IDA of the amendment so proposed
and enable IDA to exchange news with
amendment.
Loans to investment enterprises                        In compliance
would be made at an interest rate of not
less than 1lX p.a., with an additional 1%
p.a., fee paid to help cover foreiga exchange
rate risk.
Rental charges for factory buildings will be
not less than 5l per annum of the cost of
said building subject to price escalation
provisions.



- 53 -
LNDC shall furnish IDA with quarterly reports               Efforts being
on its operations, financial condition and                  made to comply
resource position.
Within six months following the lst withdrawal              In compliance
from Credit 985-LSO, LNDC shall prepare a report
for IDA regarding the execution and operation
of investment projects, parts B&C of the project.
and LNDC and IDA's performance project.
LNDC shall exchange news with IDA on any                       In compliance
proposal to modify its Statement of Policy
and shall not amend such statement except
in agreement with IDA.
LNDC shall furnish to IDA no more than                 Audited financial
four months after the end of its fiscal                accounts up to 1987188
year the audited financial statements                  sent to the Bank once
and auditors report                                    they have been  cleared
by the Auditor General.
LNDC will maintain a debt :                            In compliance
equity ratio of no more tha  3:1                       Current debt : equity
ratio is 0.9 : 1
LNDC shall take such steps                             Largely in compliance
satisfactory to IDA to protect                         M2.3 million remain
itself against foreign exchange risk                   on LNDC'a balance sheet
as due from Government.



- 54 -
VI.  INST'TUrJNMAL    UIAM  AND DlKWBlI
Host   internal   institutional   problems   were   identified    during
implementation of the first credit line and by the time of appraisal
of credit LSO 985. the IDA noted that these problems were largely
resolved. At appraisal. all key staffing positions had then been filled
and  where  expatriates were still needed suitable long term  plans  for
localization were in place. The organisational structure had undergone
successive streamlining and was more functionally oriented. Operation
procedures  especially  project  appraisal  had  improved  as  well   as
accounting and financial control.
The Corporation's quality portfolio of subsidiary companies had
substantially   improved  thus  relieving  it  of  the   financial   and
administrative  burdens  of  running  them.   Finally.  a  comprehensive
investment promotion strategy was being pursued.
During the project period these institutitional reforms have been pursued
more intesely. Expatriate personnel has been phased out and reduced to
only  three,  two of whom will soon be leaving the Corporation.   A  new
organisational structure that further streamlines and harmonises the
functional responsibilities of the Corporation to improve efficiency in
delivery is in place. In line with the new organisational structure there
has  been a concomitant recruitment to ma the key  management positions.
A comaputerised system has been introduced and is very effective in
enhancing LNDC appraisal capacity. Overall Performance of the equity
portfolio Is becoming increasingly satisfactory. The current portfolio
cousists of seven Associate and seven subsidiary companies, and LNDC
eauda4tra to Intmotfy msnitoring their operations.



- 55 -
The Quality of present management has definitely improved compared with
the situation in 1980:-
Management is now by consultation through managerial committees
that exchange ideas & formulate policies. There is more uniformity
& team work within the Corporation. In addition to Hanpower.
Executive and Investment Committees the Corporation added a very
crucial Committee i.e. the Management Committee which has the
power to approve expenditure within the jurisdictions of Managing
Director. The management Committee has delegated powers to
the Managing Director and the Financial Controller to approve capital
expenditure of up to M30,000.
the Corporation's policy of loqalizing at management level has
ensured better stability and continuity.
The area of manpower development has received increasing attention.
With the accelerated increase of new industries and expansion
programme emphasis has been placed on short programmes (6 weeks-3
months) for staff development and less emphasis on long term
programmes.   Several tailor-made in-house programmes  particularly
in  project  identification,  appraisal  &  monitoring  have   been
organized  successfully.   We presently have advantage  of  several
high standard training institutions within the region.
Since last appraisal the number of Corporation staff has more than
doubled.   The staff complement has grown from 38 in 1979 to 98  at
present 57 of whom are proffessional staff. Obstacles have been
rather high staff turnover of professional and well trained staff



- 56 -
due to highly competitive salaries and benefits particularly those
of the LHDA and the interest is developing private consultancies;
The major Contribution of expatriates has been in staff training in
management skills & technical skills.
VII  aSNK PUPONIANCU
At appraisal, the Bank recognised the critical role that Lesotho's
industrial sector has to play as the potential engine for future growth
of the economy. The Bank on the other hand noted the constraints t:hat
hamper industrial development.  The objectives and justifications of the
project were mainly to enhance LNDC's capabilities as the most important
economic  institution in promoting industrialisation in  Lesotho.   Need
was therefore rightfully felt to extent financial support to LNDC
through the project 985-LSO to attract more investments into Lesotho.
increase formal and productive sector employment opportunities and
improve the industrial manpower skills. The project was therefore well
conceived and in line with the main probiems and priorities of the
industrial sector.
Its conditions were largely in accordance with those of the 1st credit
and these were considered appropriate.
The  scheduling of the project was appropriate at  appraisal.   However,
series of external factors mainly the recession of 1982, the collapse of
the  local  currency  in  the  international  markets, dictated   slower
commitment and disbursement rates.  The Bank was however flexible and



- 57 -
approved requests for extension. A major flexibility that enhanced
increased committment was the banks approval for the factory shell
programme which provided the investor with the basic motivation to
excellarate investment decisions.
During  the  period  of  the  project  the  Bank  carried  out   regular
supervisory missions characterised by constructive dialogue between the
Bank  and  LNDC.  After expiry of the line of credit, the  last  mission
noted  tremendous  improvements  in most issued  of  concern  raised  by
previous missions. A very warm relationship continued to be maintained
between  LNDC  staff  and  the  Bank  representative.   The  spirit  was
constructive critisms as documented in all reports by the supervisory
missions.
VIII Conclusions
LNDC's performance in achieving the objectives of the second line of
credit represent an improvement over performance of the first credit
acility.   During the first four years of the second credit  line,  the
Corporation's performance was admittedly poor in terms of commitments,
disbursements and project approvals however. this trend was dramatically
reversed when economic fortunes turned around, and when IDA conceided to
new  approvals  to  the utilizations of the  credit  line.   As  already
indicated this poor performance should not be judged in isolation of
economic and other exogenous factors that collectively affected the
Corporation's ability to efficiently implement the project. During this
time LNDC was also going through a period of some institutional
difficulties. Among others were:



- 58 -
the  urgantsatonal structure at the time though generully  satisfactory
stil.; suffered from certain weakneases. and iieedect furt.her streamlining.
Lhe Cotporatiomns sLatting position was relatively weak at key positions
and  there was a heavy reliance on expartriates and nted  for intensive
local sLaff trainins.
a  large and unprofitable equity portfoli': imposed heavy administrative
burden in the light of staff shortage and quality.
there was nc) corporate strategy to base LNDC's operaLiolns and finally
manasgmenL instability.
As can he noted from the subsequent supervisory mission reports.
considerable  progress  was lade in these and other :areas ove'  the 2nd
htalf of the project period starting from 1985. Consequently, the
Corporation was placed on a better footing as evidenced by increased
level oL activityion the credit line.
To  the  extent that one of the main objectives of the  prnje:t  was to
enhance LNDC's planing and resource mobilUsation and implementt projects
of econooi*c benefit this objective hasi largely been achieved. Over the
project  period. LUDC succeeded to mobilize resources frou  other donor
agencies  like  the  European Investment Bank (EIB),  2nd  global line.
Overseas Development Administrative (ODA).    Rowever. with thte increase
level of activity as the regional economy picks up from the early 1980's
recession, LUDC is Inttseltying efforts to mobilixe resoureCs to finance
the investment progrem e that has been growing at unprecedented levels
since 191S36.  Pfftrts are also beir--  ',t to negotiate with the local
banking system to avail the surplus liquidity in the commercial  banking
sector for productive tnvestmeAt projects.



- 59 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Credit Title            Puroose       Year of Approval              Status
IDA Credit for            DFC               1976                 Completed
the Lesotho
National Develop-
ment Corporation
(a.702-LSO)
2. Proiect Timetable
Item                     Date Planned                    Actual Date
Identification                February 1979                 February 1979
Appraisal Mission             April 1979                   April 17, 1979
Negotiations                  November 1979             November 26, 1979
Board Approval                February 26, 1980         February 26, 1980
Credit Effectiveness          October 9, 1980            November 7, 1980
Completion of Commitments    June 30, 1982                  June 30, 1986
Closing                       June 30, 1984                 June 30, 1987
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulated Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
IBRD Fiscal Year            1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
(i)  Appraisal Estimate    1.04   2.48   3.63   &.00   4.00   4.00   4.00
(ii) Actual                 0.00   0.28   0.42   1.02   1.14   1.90   3.46
(iii) (ii) as X of (i)       0Z     111    121    262    281    47Z    862
Date of Final Disbursement                    January 12, 1988
Total Disbursed                               3.46
Amount Cancelled                               .54
Amount Outstanding at June 30, 1988           3.46



- 60 -
4.   Status of Covenants
- Project Agreement
Covenant                               Status of Comgliance
a)  LNDC shall carry out the                  LNDC proposed involvement in at
Project and conduct its operations            least two projects, where its
and affairs with due diligence and            Investment (equity and total)
efficiency and in conformity with             exceeded maximum permissible
appropriate economic and                      limits as per its Statement of
investment standards and                      Policy.  These were the brewery
practices, with qualified and                 and shopping center investments.
experienced management and personnel
and in accordance with the LNDC Act
and its Statement of Policy (Project
Agreement Section 2.01).
b)  LNDC undertakes to charge an              In compliance.
interest rate of not less than 112
for subloans made out of the proceeds
of the credit and a rental rate of not
less than 152 of the cost of building.
when financed out of the proceeds of
the credit (Project Agreement Section
2.03 (c) (i) and (c)).
c)  LNDC shall exchange views with            In compliance.
the Association on any proposal to
modify its Statement of Policy, and
shall not amend its Policy, except
in agreement with the Association
(Project Agreement Section 2.08).
d)  LNDC shall have its accounts              LNDC ha. consistently submitted
and financial statements for each             audited a   'nts although some
fiscal year audited by independent            have been delayed.
auditors acceptable to the
Association in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently
applied and furnish the Audit Report
to the Association, as soon as
available but, in any case, not later
than four months after the end of
each such year (Project Agreement
Section 3.02).
e)  LNDC shall maintain a                     In compliance.
debt/equity ratio which does not
exceed 311 (Project Agreement
Section 3.04).



- 61 -
f)  LNDC shall take steps                     In compliance.
satisfactory to the Association, to
protect itself against loss from
foreign exchange fluctuations
(Project Agreement Section 3.06).
- Loan Agreement
a)  As a special condition of                 In compliance.
credit effectiveness, the Government
of Lesotho would enter into a subsidiary
loan agreement to onlend the credit
component to LNDC at six percent interest
per annum; the Government would pass the
funds for the training components of the
project on to LNDC as grants.
b)  The foreign exchange risk of              Some foreign exchange loss
the credit component would be                 provision remained on LNDC's
borne by the Government, which                books as a result of its
would charge LNDC a fee of one                participation in the
percent per annum for this                    project.
service; this fee would be passed on
by LNDC to its sub-borrowers.
c)  The Association would assist              In compliance.
LNDC in identifying training programs
suitable for LNDC staff, and would
approve all training proposals financed
under the staff training component of
the project.
d)  LNDC staff being sent abroad              In compliance to date.
for training would agree to serve LNDC
for five years after completing the
training program.
a)  The first five grants for                 In compliance.
training Basotho workers in new
enterprises would be subjected to
prior approval by IDA.



- 62 -
5.  Use of BDnk Resouvc-s
A.  fta.I.Ui
State of Pro10ct Cg le                            Staff -weks
Through Appraisal                                         21.6
Appraisal through Board Approval                           2.7
Supervision                                               80.7 jl
Project Completion Report                                 12.6
l/ Includes mission as vell me other staff *upervision inputs.
5.  11alm
Stage of              Month/ Number of  Days        e                  lati          Types of Project
Proiect Cycle           YM. zaraP       - IJaJin siold  hsol *           Scaotus bl       Problems c/
Throuth Amnraisal
Appraisal                4179       3         14      5s./rVlsop.          h/A         slow
coumitment/
disbursement of
the 1st credit.
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval
through Effectiveness            - 
Supervision              8/80      2.0       2.0         Op/rA          2/(1)          Financial
9181      2.0       1.5         Op             21(1)         Financial
8/82      2.0       2.0         Op             2(11)         Financial
4183      1.0       1.5         Op             SI()          Management,
Finaneial
11/83      1.0       1.5         Op             2/11)         Management,
Financial
12184     2.0        2.0        Op              2/(1)         Financial
11/8S      2.0       1.5         Op                 2         Financial
5/86      2.0       1.5         Op                 2         Admin.Expenses
Slow Disburse-
ments
3/87      2.0       1.5         OP                 2         Financial
Performance
Slow Disburse-
ments
5/88      1.0       1.0         OP                 2         Arrears, lack
of corporate
strategy
poor appraisals
a/ Fin. - Financial Analyst
Ec. - Economist
Op. - Operations Offlcer
_l 1 - Problem fre  or minor problems
2 - Moderate problems
3 - Major problems
(1) - Improving trend
(2) - Stationry trend
(3) - Deterioratin  tren
c/ - Financial problms affecting project were related toelm disb*rsemuts, hih levels of arrears,
financial losses In erly pars, Liiin  adinitrative expeass.
- Management problem  lncluded wea   nagemet leaierebip  ad lbc  of a clear corporate strategy.



LESOTHO
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEV,'LOPM-ENT CORPRORATION (LNDC)
PCR for Credit 985-LSO 
LND'C's New Oraanis-ation Chart (1987)
b oardi of Dinet |
Dirctor, Todhnl                    | C t                          Dro  Puang|              iCrO                       Director Finnnes 
Administrative                         etr                         rni2           IPae                                 dtOw-r
D*iv ion                                                           i''a-Dia 
Wutr Oiractor     Dwuts Dior                   '>  Di z~~~~~~~~~~totr  |  Deputy O;spOc on:Dty Diroctor
OrnstinPannite                                                   l'_    r_ tian              I_t tin_bn  Plr
_ iiniatntien      _  ad "_ btriao               _ i~~~~~~~~mitori  li_ 1rm,=  _  baitri               FncII nrollor
Sbi i air                          Sundvii                                                          `-lliB             't Sbiiie  uiv*
_A-iSeton   t     ia{_ialBF Stn_ti*n            =   Xa ituta|_10it aNYI P ortoli  o riFa cl tioa- I.                     St- ra7l
_ Perl l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-iTr SFiarstll |-8ion                       d       mtira et                      rTs ocn |2C i  ieming S _tionw
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r-- -I
i lXetion |e  |            -        Fuadi1t   Uaiet
(~~~~ Sa   Lf   t 



- 64-                                    Annex 2
SECOND IDA CREDIT FOR THE LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BASIC DATA
1. Yr. of Establishment: 1967
2. Onl*nding Termn:
A. Government onlonding to LNDC -- 6e
B. Onlonding rate for LNDC to Sub-borrowers -- 11X
C. Fee for Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage -- 1X
D. Free Limit -- 8150,000
E. Aggregate Free Limit -- 81.0 million
F. Other Limits -- 31.6 million (40X) of credit can be used for equlty
Investments and factory buildings
0. Maximum Loan per Project -- 8600,000
8. Ownership:
At Appraisal At FY66          At FY86 (end)    FY68 (end)
Authorized Capital                  10.0           10.0          10.0           10.0
Issued and Fully Paid                4.0           4.0           10.0          10.0
At 3/81/80    At 8/81/86
Share Capital:                   4,000.0       4,000.0       10,000.0      10,000.0
of which DEC (6X                                            1,000.0       1,000.0
cumulative non-voting
preferred shares)
Government grante                2,684.0       9,826.0        6,756.0       7,859.0
Capital Reserves                 1,768.0      14,976.0       14,298.0      18,076.0
Accum. Profit (losses)           1,812.0         649.0        1,658.0       8,948.0
Total Equity               7,186.0      29,468.0       81,646.0      89,838.0



-65                            Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
ACTUAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND STATUS AS COMPARED WITH
ArrPKAiSAL rKUJEICI INS
I. INCOME STATEMENT
('000 Maloti)
PROJECTIONS
1980        1981        1982       1983       1984
Gross Income               1005         1332         1711        2139     2663
Total Expense               877         1101         1363        1626     1929
Profit (Loss) before
Provisions                128          231          348        513       734
Provisions                   94          130          123         129      145
Net Profit (Loss)            34          101          225         384      589
*ACTUAL
Gross Income                910         1484          1688       2206     2222
Total Expenses              624          848          2287       2114     2090
Profit (Loss) before
Provisions             286          636          (599)       92       132
Provisions                  391          644           519       2100      463
Net Profit (Loss)           (105)         (8)        (1118)    (2008)    (331)
DIIFKEENCES PROJECTED - ACTUAL
Gross Income                 95         (152)           23        (67)     441
Total Expenses              253          253          (924)      (488)    (161)
Profit Loss Before
Provisions          (158)        (405)         949        421       602
Provisions                  (297)       (514)         (396)    (1971)    (318)
Net Profit (Loss)           139          109          1343       2392      920



- 66 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
II. BALANCE SHEET
('000 Maloti)
PROJECTIONS
Assets                     1980         1981        1982       1983    1984
Net Current Assets            50           50          50         50      50
Loans                       2881         4169        5468       7003    8779
Equity                      1791         2812        3530       3948    4271
Factory Buildings           5630         7072        8477      10163   12185
Provisions                 (1493)       (1623)      (1746)    (1875)  (2020)
Other                        185          183         181        179     175
Total Assets                9044        12663       15960      19468   23440
Liabilities & quity
Long Ternm Liabilities      2650         4968        7140       9264   12147
Equity
Share Capital               4800         6000        6900       7900    8400
Capital Reserves            1416         1416        1416       1416    1416
Grants                       140          140         140        140     140
Accumulated Funds             38          139         364        748    1337
Total Shareholders
Funds                    6394        7695         8820      10203   11293
Total Liabilities
& Equity                 9044       12663        15960      19468   23440



- 67 -
flnnex 3
Page 3 of 5
1960        1982         1982      1983       1984
Assets
Net Current Assets                        532          119       (402)    (158)
Loans                                     443          676       1315     1519
Equity                                   3308         5209       4479     6141
Factory Buildings                        8949         9338       9704    11586
Provisions                               (317)       ;' 5S)    (3047)    '2452)
Other                                      77         1435
Total Assets                            12836        15342     12049    16636
Liabilities & Kouty
Long Term Liabilities                    2989         4036       4929     6089
Equity
Share Capital                            4000         4000      4000    4000
Capital Reserves                         3445         4041       1131    2733
Grants                                   2713         4700       5033    6266
Accumulated Funds                        (317)       (1435)    (3047)  (2452)
Total Shareholders Funds                 9641        11306       7120   10547
Total Liabilities & Equity              12836        15342     12049   16636
Assets
Net Current Assets                       (462)         (69)       452     208
Loans                                    3726         4792       5688    7260
Equity  -                                (496)       (1679)      (531)  (1870)
Factory Buildings                       (1l875)       (861)       459     599
Total Assets 1/                          (173)         618       7419    6804
Long-Term Liabilities                    1979         3104       4335    6058
Equity
Share Capital                            2000         2900      3900    4400
Capital Reserves                        (2029)       (2625)       282   (1317)
Grants                                  (2573)       (4560)    (4893)  (6126)
Total Shareholders Funds                (2146)       (2486)      3083     746
Total Liabilities & Equity 11            (173)         Ole       7419    6804
i/ Columns do not add to totals due to omission of provisions and accumulated
funds in this table.



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
III. OPERATIONS
('000 Malati)
PROJECTIONS
APprovals                  1980         1981        1982       1983    1984
Loans                      1400         1680        2016       2419    2903
Equity                     1450         1000         700        480     528
Factory &
Infrastructure           1100        1320         1584       1901    2281
Guarantees                 1000          400         400        400     400
4950        4400         4700      5200    6112
Coumndtments
Loans                       980         1596        1915       2248    2758
Equity                     1015         1135         790        546     514
Factory Bldgs/Sites         770         1254        1505       1806    2167
Guarantees                  700          580         400        400     400
3465        4565         4610      5000    5839
Disbursements
Loans                      1070         1482        1600       1984    2385
Equity                      812         1111         859        595     520
Factory Buildings           758         1442        1405       1686    2022
2640        4035         3864      4265    4927
ACTUAL
Approvals
Loans                      1500          600         800       3810    1700
Equity                     2800          600         300        640       0
Factory &
Infrastructure          6100        1900         4400       3103    1300
Guarantees                 3100          500         100                 80
13500        3600         5600      7553    3080
Commitments
Loans                                                 -         826    1275
Equity                                               200         51     -
Factory Bldgs/Sites                                 -500       1231    1459
Guarantees                                           300        -       -
1000      2108    2734
Disbursements
Loans                                                -         2017     903
Equity                                              2400         85     -
Factory Bldgs                                       1100        284    2138
3500      2386    3041



- 69 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
DIFFERENCES  (Projected - Actual)
Approvals
Loans                        (100)       1080          1216     (1391)      1203
Equity                      (1350)        400           400       (160)      528
Factory Shells/
Infrastructure            (5000)      (580)        (2816)    (1202)        981
Guarantees                  (2100)       (100)          300       400        320
(8550)       800          (900)    (2353)       3032
Conmitments
Loans                                                1915       1422       1483
Equity                                                 590       495        514
Factory Bldg/Sites                                   1005        575        768
Guarantees                                          100        400        400
3610      2892       3105
Disbursements
Loans                                                1600        (33)      1482
Equity                                               (1541)      510        500
Factory Bldge.                                        305       1402       (116)
Total                                                 364       1879       1866



LESOTHO
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (LNDC)
List of Subproiects Financed Under Credit 985-LSO
(US$'000s)
Total
Subproject         Date               Amount             Amount             Amount
Number             Approved           Approved           Cancelled          Disbursed
1. Lesotho Clothing                     A-1             2/10/81               107.8                20.7               87.1
2. Freightpak International             A-2             5115/81                76.5                  39               37.5
3. Gallant Clothing                     A-3             10127181              231.7                  17              214.7
4. Paktex (Pty) Limited (cancelled)   A-4               5/27182               785.5               785.5               _
5. Metro Mafeteng Building              A-5             219183                  415               107.2              307.8
6. Metro Butha-Buthe                    A-6             2/9183                  415                 118                297
7. Focus Clothing                       A-7             11/27184              191.4              143.4                  48
8. Metro Cashbuild                      A-8             11128/84              171.4                13.3              158.1
9. Mustang Shoes                        A-9             8/22185                 368                10.9              357.1
10. Steelquip                           A-10             12110185              372.9               208.7              164.2
11. Lesotho Clothing Industries         A-11             118/86                280.9                                  291.7
12. Golden Textiles (cancelled)         A-12             1/23/86               170.9               170.9               -
13. Glennit Textiles (cancelled)        A-13             2)4186                   500                S00               -
14. Four Factory Shells                 A-14             5/14/87                  640                9.1              630.9
15. Thaba-Tseka Wholesale               A-15             6124/87               164.2                  12              152.2
16. Two Factory Shells                  A-16             7/22/87               320.3               164.5              155.8
17. Seventh Factory Shell               A-17             10/23/87              185.3                49.2              136.1
18. Maputsoe Bakery (cancelled)          B-1             8/8/83                 82.8                82.8               _
19. Peacock Garment (cancelled)          B-2             7120/84                50.9                50.9               _
20. Lesotho Knitwear                     B-3             1/11/85                45.6                _                  45.6
21. Apex Knitting          -             B-4             2/22/85               100.4                80.5               19.9
22. Tsitoe Clothing                      B-5             2/5/86                 59.1                 0.4               58.7
4S



71 -                        Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
LIST OF LNDC STAFF MEMBERS ENROLLED IN TRAINING ABROAD
NAME                 PROGRAM              DURATION    DATE OF RETURN
RAMASHAMOLE M.L      M.Sc. in Banking   87/88          Sept. 1988
& Finance for
Development
NTSTNYI P.           B.Sc. in Estate    86/89          June  199C
Management
MATELA M.            M.Sc. in Human       87,/88       Sept. 1983
Resource
Development
STAFF ON BLOCK RELEASE AT THE CENTRE FOR ACCOUNTING STUDIES
NAME                    QUALIFICATION  SOUGHT              YEAR OF PROGRAM
LEBITSA                 Chartered Accountanit              Final Year
'MEFANE M.             Registered Accountant               1st Year
CHONDOMA T.             Registered Accountant              2nd Year
MOILOA M.               Registered Accountant              end Year
MO:HAsCHAU'E T.        Registered Accountant            .nd Year
CHAKA M.                P.egistered A_countant             1st Year
Mus.syam'-iri P. Reg.stered Ac_ountant                     1Xt Yer



- 72 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
PROPOSED STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM FOR 1988/89
NAME                  TRAINING PROGRAM    SOURCE OF FUND   DURATION
MA.AiHOAL:BE -.       Developmernt Communi  BANFESS           Ia8$-9O
IMRSI'                cation Course
IALEKE M. (MRFQ)      MBA                                     1?E 
I



-73-                                Annex 5
Summary of Subprojects Financed lnder the Credit            Page 1 of 10
Lesotho Clothing Indu^tries.    Subloan A-1 for USS 107,874.  This company
was incorporated in 1980 as a subsidiary of Phoenix Clothing Company of
RSA.  Initially the company was to produce men's and women's shorts, and in
later years, jeans for export to the EEC and the United States. The IDA
credit was intended for the financing of the foreign exchange component of
a building to be constructed by LNDC and leased to Lesotho Clothing.
The company has been operating profitably, though net profits dropped in
1987. This drop is attributable to an increase in freight and bank
charges. Due to the economic sanctions imposed on the RSA (in 1986?),
direct shipment via the RSA to the United States is no longer an option.
Because the company markets its product primarily to the USA, its freight
costs jumped considerably. Bank Lharges have increased because the local
bank has increased clearance costs on foreign checks. The subproject has
created 325 jobs, and the company currently employs 570 people. Training
for 160 workers was successfully completed. The company intends to expand
further, and this has been approved by LNDC.
Freiahtpak International. Subloan A-2 for USS 76,574. Freightpak was
established in Maseru, Lesotho on August 1, 1978 to urndertake the following
activities: international shipping, road transport services, local
furniture removals, warehousing and export packing of industrial,
ccomercial and household goods, end distribution. In 1980 IBRD approved
under Cr. 702L?9 US$ 83,950 to finance the foreign exchange component of a
building to be constructed by LNDC and leased to Freightpak. However, due
to the company s expansion program additional funds were requested and
subsequently apprGved under Cr. 985LS0. The company was operating
profitably until a new company, Manica Freiaht International, moved into



Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
- 74 -
Lesotho, and eventually took over Freightpak. The building which was
initiaily leased to Freightpak is now occupied by Manica Freight
International.
Gallant Clothing Manufacturers. Subloan A-3 for US$ 231,700. Gallant
Clothing Lesotho (GCL) was incorporated in 1977 as a subsidiary of the RSA
based clothing manufacturer, Gallant Durban. The IDA credit was intended
for the financing of the foreign exchange component of a factory to be
leased from LNDC. GCL was to produce outerwear for ladies, girls, and
infants. The company started operations in Maputsoe in 1978, and its main
strategy was oriented towards the EEC markets while the parent company
(Gallant Durban) was to continue to focus on the RSA market. However, due
to inadequate quality and non-competitive costs, GCL's export sales
plummeted. This decline in export sales resulted in BCL becoming a
manufacturing site for the RSA market only. Between 1983 and 1985 GCL's
sales increased by over 20% p.a. but declined by 14% in 1986. Margins have
declined steadily since 1982, and in 1986 GCL suffered an operating loss.
This deterioration in sales was attributed to the declining demand in the
RSA and consequent price cutting to maintain ma-ket share. By the end of
1987 GCL posted net profits again, and has started a joint venture
subsidiary company in Lesotho with a reputable international company to
diversify its product range. Under the training component of the IDA
credit 160 trainees successfully completed their training, and 305 Jobs
-'r  created.  The company is now in arrears in its building rental
payments.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
- 75 -
Paktex (Pty) Ltd. Subloan A-4 for US$ 785,515. This company was
incorporated in the RSA on November 17, 1981 to manufacture plastic cloth
and bags. The IDA credit was intended for the construction of a factory
building by LNDC and leased to Paktex. The amount of the credit, however,
exceeded the US$ 600,000 limit -- the maximum financial commitment by LNDC
from the credit per subproject as agreed with IDA under Cr. 985LSO. The
side letter in which the above limit is set, does however provide that LNDC
could, with sufficient Justification and IDA approval, utilise more than
US$ 600,000 from the credit for a single subproject. This additional
amount was subsequently approved by IDA, but was later canceled by LNDC due
to its inability to put together a complete financial package suitable to
all the investors.
Metro Mafetena and Butha-Buthe. Subloans A-S and A-6 for a combined
US$ 830,000. This IDA credit was extended for the construction of
wholesale warehouse buildings in Mafeteng and Butha-Buthe for Metro Lesotho
Ltd. This comoany is a very successful retail operation owned 50X by a
subsidiary of LNDC, Lesotho Investment Holdings (LIH), and 50X by Metro
Group South Africa. Metro Lesotho was incorporated in 1974 and began as a
wholesaler distributor of consumer goods in Lesotho. Up until June of 1987
the Metro Lesotho Group included groceries, hardware and clothing
wholesaling. The rubloans have no arrears in rents due to LNDC. Metro
Lesotho has been operating profitably with net profits increasing steadily
between 1985 and 1987.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
- 76 -
Focus Clothing Manufacturers Ltd. Subloan A-7 for US$ 191,400. Focus was
incorporated in Lesotho in February of 1984 as a subsidiary of the South
African company, Twin Clothing Manufacturers of Durban. The IDA credit was
sought to finance part of the foreign exchange costs fc- the establishment
of Focus in Maputsoe. The company was to produce children clothes (95%)
and ladies' fashion skirts (5/.). During the initial years, Focus was to
sell 30X. of its production locally, and 707. in the RSA through Twin's
distribution centre in Durban. Eventually, the RSA sales are to be
ubstituted by exports to the EEC. This subproject created 150 jobs. The
company is currently operating satisfactorily.
Metro Cashbuild Maseru. Subloan A-8 for US$ 171.376. This IDA credit was
approved for the financing of the foreign exchange component of a warehouse
to be constructed by LNDC and leased to Metro Cashbuild Maseru, a building
materials wholesale operations to be established in Maseru as a branch of
Metro Lesotho. The latter was originally established as'a joint venture
owned 50. by LNDC (this share was subsequently transferred to LNDC's
subsidiary the Lesotho Investment Holdings -- LIH), and 50% by Metro Cash
and Carry of Johannesburg. The subproject creatod 46 jobs, and is
operating profitably.
Mustang Shoes Limited. Subloan A-9 for USs 368.000. Mustang (Pty) Limited
was formed by Walwijk B.V of Holland and Jaguard Shoes of RSA, previous
owners of Lesotho Shoes Limited (LSL) which was liquidated at the end of



Annex 5
77                               Page 5 of 10
1984. Mustang took over the assets and liabilities of LSL and resumed the
production of moccasins and uppers for athletic footwear and produced a new
line of children's and ladies shoes. Approximately 75% of the moccasins
and shoes uppers produced was to be sold in the RSA and the rest in
Lesotho. This subproject created 500 jobs, and is operating profitably.
The company intends to expand further.
Steelquip (Pty) Ltd. Subloan A-10 for US$ 372,925. Steelquip Ltd. was
established in June 1984 by Rovic Holdings, a diversified manufacturer of
agricultural implements. The IDA subloan was intended to finance 80% of
the building expansion and improvements as well as to finance machinery and
imported raw materials, in order to introduce an additional production line
of cultivators. Steelquip initially planned to produce about 750 units per
year, representing an 8% market share and a level of production well above
steelquip's breakeven point. At appraisal the subproject was estimated to
have created 125 jobs. Unfortunately, due to a draught the RSA farming
sector suffered major problems, which led to low equipment purchases by RSA
farmers as well as their inability to meet financial obligations.
Operations have now ceased, and the company has been placed under
liquidation.
Lesotho Clothing Industries Ltd. Subloan A-11 for US$ 280,899. Lesotho
Clothing-Industries (Pty) Ltd. (LCI) was established in Maputsoe, Lesotho
in 1981 by a group of South African investors. LCI manufactures a wide



Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
- 78 -
range of casual and sportswear under the "Instinct" label. Approximately
507 of its production is sold in the RSA and the rest exported to the USA
and Western Europe. The IDA credit was to finance the expansion of LCI;
specifically, to finance part of the cost of constructing a new factory
building, additional machinery and equipment and stocks of imported raw
materials. LCI is a very successful company, and also has a good track
record in its relations with LNDC.
Golden Textiles (Ptv) Ltd. Subloan A-12 for US$ 170,895. This subproject
called for the establishment of a factory to manufacture knitted jerseys
and pajamas. Sponsors of this endeavour, the Auo family, own 5 companies
in the Transkei and Ciskei "homelands" of the RSA, producing knitwear,
cutlery, shoes and plastic products. The establishment of the Lesotho
factory would enable Transkei Knitting (the existing knitwear firm and
parent company to Golden Textiles) to augment its production to meet
demand, which currently outstrips Transkei Knitting's production
capability. Eighty-seven jobs were created against the 350 new jobs
estimated at appraisal. The company started operations in January of 1986,
but closed in June 1988 because of its inability to process orders.
Furthermore, the company had difficulty in competing with RSA manufacturers
who enjoy concessions not available in Lesotho. At the time it closed,
Golden Textiles has employed 64 people.



Annex 5
79                               Page 7 of 10
6lennit Textiles. Subloan A-13 for US$ 500,000. This subproject was
intended to assist in the establishment of a new integrated fabric and
garment manufacturing plant in Lesotho to manufacture knitted fabrics and
sports clothes. The sponsors, Thread Textiles, are experienced South
African garment manufacturers, with several other textile plants in the RSA
and Ciskei. Glennit initially planned to export 20/. of its production to
the USA and the Federal Republic of Germany, with the rest intended for the
RSA. Due to financing problems at the early stages of the company's
existence, Glennit suffered cash flow problems which became unmanageable
when the promoters were unable to support it adequately. The company is
currently under liquidation, and very little chance exists for any
substantial recovery from the liquidator. LNDC has started legal
proceedings against the sponsors.
Thaba Tseka Wholesale. Subloan A-IS for US$ 164,209. This subproject
called for the establishment of a wholesale opiration at Thaba-Tseka,
located in the eastern mountain region of Lesotho.  LNDC built the building
for lease to Maluti Marketing, the wholesale operators. haluti Marketing
is a 50/50 joint venture between LNDC and Frazers Group, a large RSA
retailing and wholesale operation.
Factory Shells. Subloans A-14, A-16 and A-17 for a combined total of US$
1,145,600. This endeavour involved the construction of seven advance
factory shells of 1,000 square metres each at Thetsane, Lesotho by LNDC.



Annex 5
- 80                                Page 8 of 10
The shells form an important component of the incentive package promoted by
LNDC to attract direct foreign investment with the objective of encouraging
employment creation in the formal sector. These factory shells are
currently leased to 5 textile companies.
Maputsoe Bakery.  Subloan B-i for US$ 82,761.  Maputsoe Bakery was
established in 1980 by the proprietor of Border Bakery in Ficksburg, RSA,
with LNDC providing leased premises financed under Credit 702-LSO. The
bakery, which opened in early 1981 produced bread loaves and confectionary.
In 1953, IDA approved US$ 82,761 from Credit 985-LSO to expand the bakery's
production. These funds were never disbursed, and upon request by LNDC the
subloan was cancelled in 1985.
Peacock Garment Manufacturina. Subloan B-2 for US$ 50,880. Peacock
Garment Manufacturing was eistablished in 1984 to manufacture school
uniforms, knitwear for school children and women's dresses. All were
intended for the domestic market. The project has eight sponsors, of whom
two are expatriates who control 40/. of the shares of the company. Shortly
after it started operations, the company developed technical, marketing and
general management problems. Towards the end of 1986 it became apparent to
the shareholders that the company could no longer be saved. The company
was put intr a voluntary liquidation. LNDC expects little or no recovery.



Annex 5
- 81 -                               Page 9 of 10
Lesotho Knitwear. Subloan B-3 for US$ 45,630. Lesotho Knitwear was
established in 1984 to manufacture 100/. wool sweaters for export to North
America. Early on the company experienced considerable management problems
which affected the company's financial performance. These management
difficulties persisted until 1988 when Lesotho Knitwear's major creditor,
Barclays Bank, threatened liquidation of the company. In July of 1988 the
company s promoter, Paul Lee Enterprises, suspended operations temporarily
to mobilise funds and to negotiate a joint venture arrangement. The
company is now breaking even but has substantial cummulative losses.
Apex Knitting. Subloan B-4 for US$ 100,440. Apex Knitting was established
by three Zimbabwe nationals to manufacture men's socks.   It started
production in January of 1983 in Francistown, Botswana with the aim of
marketing its socks approximately 50% in Zimbabwe and 50% in South. Africa.
In January 1985 Zimbabwe imposed import restrictions which virtually sealed
off the Zimbabwean market. For this reason Apex Knitting decided to move
its operations to Lesotho and focus entirely on the South African market.
Unfortunately, the company experienced production problems as well. The
promoters recruited a production technician from Great Britain, who, due to
management problems left the company. A replacement was not recruited
early enough, and production broke down. The manager and the promoters
abandoned the company, and LNDC liquidated it in 1987.



Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
- 82 -
Tsitoe Clothing. Subloan 8-5 for US$ 59,100. Tsitoe Clothing was
established to manufacture an embroidered clothing line for children. The
promoter was the RSA based company Cape Embroidery (Pty) Ltd. The IDA
credit was to finance machinery and 80% of the cost of improvements to an
existing factory shell. But, due to inadequate support from the promoting
company, Tsitoe Clothing suffered production and marketing problems. The
company has been placed under liquidation. Difficulties are expected in
disposing of specialised equipment.



- 83 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
LNDC's STATE1NT OF POLICIES
1.2 LNDC STATEMENT OF POLICY
1.2.1 The Board of Directors have the responsibility for setting policy
and ensuring that Management will effectively implement such policy.
The p'urpose of this statement is to set forth procedures and matters
whi.ch will clarify the Corporation's powers and responsibilities.
1.2.2 The Board of Directors shall meet as frequently as necessary to
conduct the business of the Corporation; it shall meet at least
once each quarter.
1.2.3  LNDC's Management shall be responsible forpreparing and submitting
to the Board an annual program of action, which include a budget.
Such a program and budget should be supported by financial projections
on a period of at least three years. The program and budget should
be submitted to the Board at least three weeks prior to the Board
meeting at which it will be examined. Such a program shall, inter
alia, show the resources available to the Corporation, a project
by project review of activities and proposed investment and/or loans
by the Corporation, the resource gap, if any, and proposals regarding
ways and means to close such a gap. Included in the annual program
proposal will be any proposed major changes in the structure or areas
of responsibility of the senior staff and/or sections of the organiza-
tions. The Board shall be informed on a regular basis of proposed
changes, modifications and additions to the annual program.
1.2.4 To further ensure that the LNDC program is consistent with Government
policy, the annual program will be forwarded to, and discussed with
the Ministries of Finance, Trade and Industry and the Ministry of
Planning, Employment and EconomLc Affairs at the time lt is forwarded
to the Board. All written comments received will be presented to the
Board before diseussions of the annual program.
1.2.5 To ensure full discussion of all matters brought before the Board,
Government members of the Board may, provided there is no Board
objection, each be accompanied by an advisor(s) who will be permitted
to particlpate in the Board dlscusslons. The Board has the right,
however, to close the meetlng to non-Board members at such times as
the Board considers necessary.
1.2.6 The Corporatlon shall, under normal circumstances not manage or
attempt to manage the affairs of any of its subsidiarles or invest-
ments. However, it will noiinate7Directors and ensure that competent
managers are employed and performance is carefully monitored. In
projects encountering severe difflculties in which the Corporation
has made an investment, the Corporation will take such action as it
considers necessary to protect its investment.
1.2.7 The Corporation shall compile and transmit to the Board each quarter
the financial and operating record of those enterprises in which it
has major outstanding commitments in the way of loan, equity, guaran-
tee, and any other assistance of a financial nature. Such submissions
shall include an analysis of the accounts by the Corporatlon's staff.
1.2.8 The Board in considering the program of the Corporation will ensure
that the resources and activities of the Corporation are allocated
in such a manner that the interest of the national business community
are adequately consldered.



Annex 6
-84-                                   Page 2 of 4
1.2.9 Before a loan, equity investment, guarantee, or building is under-
taken by Corporation, management shall circulate to the Board members
two weeks prior to a meeting, an appraisal document on the project
including a projected profit and loss account, balance sheet, and a
cash flow statement for at least five years, and an evaluation of
management, marketing arrangements, and the project's financial and
economic viability. However, the Managing Director of LNDC may
individually approve LNDC's financial commitments (viz. loans, equity,
guarantee and building) as follows:
1.2.9.1 for individual projects having already been approved in
principle or included in a capital budget, up to M50,000.00
1.2.9.2 for individual projects not having received approval in
principle, up to M25,000.00.
The Managing Director shall report to the Board such commitments at
the next Board meeting; in no case should total commitments under
category (1.2.9.1) exceed M100,000.00 prior to Board approval.
1.2.10  In entering into a commitment, the Corporation will be generally
guided by the following principles in addition to those provided
by law:
1.2.10.1 All loans should be reasonably secured and the Corporation
shall charge interest rates, and fees which are compatible
with the prevailing market rates and/or which enable it
to earn a reasonable return on its operations.
1.2.10.2 All loans shall be by formal written agreement stipulating
rate of interest (plus any additional charges) grace and
repayment period, security and other relevant details.
1.2.10.3 The Corporation shall not normally invest more than 10%
of its net worth in the share capital of any one project.
Should it be found necessary to exced this limit, a
special submission will be made to the Board and a special
resolution shall be passed allowing the Corporation to
exceed this limit.
1.2.10.4 Total aggregate investments in share capital should not
exceed the net worth ofthe Corporation.
1.2.10.5 The total financial commitment (viz. equity, loan and
guarantee) by the Corporation in any single project should
normally not exceed 20% of the Corporation's net worth.
1.2.10.6 The Corporation's total financial commitment (viz. equity,
loan, guarantee and building) to any single project should
not normally exceed 60% of the project's total capital cost,
including permanent working capital.
1.2.10.7 The Corporation shall not normally take a controlling
interest in the voting stock of projects it invests in,
unless it is unable to interest other investors to take
a controlling interest in the projects it is promoting
(excluding property development for future lease or



-85-                                Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
management by other parties, aid-funded projects for
which it is the executing agency). However, in accord-
ance with Government policy, LNDC will take the initiative
where private investors are not available for projects
which are financially and economically viable and in the
national interest.
1.2.11 In assessing proposals for financial assistance, the Corporation
will take into account primarily the prospects of success of the
proc--t, the ability and integrity of the applicant and socio-economic
ben.  ..s of the project.  Enterprises assisted should be financially
and technically viable and have competent management.
1.2.12 The Corporation will assist credit-worthy enterprises contributing
to the development of Lesotho including:
1.2.12.1  Manufacturing and Processing Industries.
1.2.12.2  Construction and Building Materials Industries.
1.2.12.3  Tourism Industries.
1.2.12.4  Commercial Enterprises.
1.2.12.5  Agro-Industries.
1.2.12.6  Mining Enterprises.
It will not normally lend for:
1.2.12.7 Working capital - (except for permanent working capital).
1.2.12.8 Projects where alternative finance is available.
1.2.12.9 Refinancing.
1.2.13  The rental charges for building and industrial sites shall enable
the Corporation to earn a resonable return on its investment. Such
rental charges shall usually be based to yield 15% per annum of
actual construction cost and shall have an escalation clause of
at least 5% per annum.
1.2.14  In the case of a joint venture in which LNDC is a minority share-
holder, the Corporation should arrange for the auditors of the
enterprise's accounts tc be appointed by the Corporation.
1.2.15  The Corporation shall not normally incur exchange risks with
respect to those of its borrowings that are repayable in foreign
currencies.
1.2.16  The Corporation's financial policy will aim at maintaning the value
of its own capital, managing its funds in such a manner that the
Corporation is, at all times, able to honour its obligations on



-86-                              Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
time and to achieve a profit margin that enables it to cover its
operating costs and build up adequate reserves.
1.2.17 The Corporation will develop and maintain a solid and well balanced
organization and a management team capable of generating business,
appraising requests submitted to it, assisting enterprises in the
formulation of their projects, supervising their execution and over-
seeing the Corporation investments. It will give special attention
to the training of its professional staff with special emphasis on
the development of a good core of local professional personnel.
Professional and other staff shall be recruited solelv on the basis
of their qualifications and experience.
1,2.18 Each enterprise receiving financial assistance from the Corporation
shall have an accounting system which meets the requirements of
sound management. The Corporation shall, as necessary, exercise
its right to check the activities and inspect the accounts and
books of enterprises assisted. Each enterprise shall be required
to submit annual budgets and quarterly financial accounts to the
Corporation.
1.2.19 The Corporation and itS subsidiaries' accounts shall be kept in
accordance with generally accepted international accounting princi-
ples. The Corporation and its subsidiaries shall ensure that the
services of independent accounting firms of-repute are engaged to
audit their annual accounts.
1.2.20 The Corporation will ensure that enterprises to which it provides
assistance will be capitalized with an adequate level of equity funds.
1.2.21 The Corporation shall over time, seek to revolve its funds by
selling off its equity portfolios where prices which give it a
reasc.able return on its investments are obtainable.  Such sales
shall be made to as wide a range of Basotho shareholders as is
feasible. Where the Corporation's interest is sold to foreign
businessmen, the Corporation shall ensure that the industry and
jobs created are not only protected but expanded and that the
new owners will operate within Government policy and heed the
nation's aspirations.



