Document of                            H 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2670-LSO
LESOTHO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF
A SECOND IDA CREDIT
FOR THE
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
January 15, 1980
East Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance c¶
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withnut World Bank auttporizatbi,a.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0 = M 0.83 = R 0.83
M 1.0 = US$1.20 = R 1.0
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BEDCO: Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CIDA:   Canadian International Development Agency
LBFC:   Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
LNIC:   Lesotho National Insurance Corporation
RMA:    Rand Monetary Area
RSA:    Republic of South Africa
SACU:   Southern Africa Customs Union



MOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ...........................                                i
I.  INTRODUCTION ......................................................
II.  THE ENVIRONMENT ......................      '.'                  2
A. The Economy ........... ..2
BK  The Industrial Sector    ..................... ...          2
Past Performance and Contribution to the Economy  ...      2
Structure of Industry .... .. . . . .  ....... .....       3
Institutional Framework and Policies ...... o.ooo ....     4
Development Constraints and Issues ...o ...... ......      6
Prospects  .......  0 00....... .0...............-......-.............  6
Bank Group Experience and Strategy in the Sector           7
C.  Tourism and Commerce .... ........                          8
D.   The Financial Sector .o .9. .....9
Institutional Structure ..........                         9
Resource Mobilization and Credit Allocation    ........   11
Interest Rates and Inflation ............ ..........      12
Financial Sector Issues   ............   o..........      12
III.   THE INSTITUTION ..o                         ...........        14
A.   Institutional Aspects .     .................             14
Objectives and Role ... o     ............ o........      14
Capital, Ownership and Board ...............    o..o ....  14
Management, Organization and Staff ............. ...      15
Staff Development    ........                             16
Operating Policies              o.......                  16
Operating Procedures ...    ... .... . -.   ......        17
Financial Reporting and Auditing ... oo ...........       18
Interest Rate and Other Charges ...o      ..........      19
B.  Operations and Finance ...._...................            20
Resources o   ......................                      21
Portfolio  ......     ........*   ......... o .......     22
Equity Holdings and Divestiture      .. .... ..........   23
Financial Performance and Situation ........  o .....     24
This document hu a rmtrictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
od their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
C.   Economic Role and Performance ......................              25
Economic Impact of Operations .......................            25
Resource Mobilization ........  * . . . .............................*  26
Performance Under the First IDA Credit .............             26
D.   Prospects ...............   * ............ ..          ...        27
Strategy ... .......................... o .............. o.......... .  27
Forecast Operations . .... ...........................           28
Forecast Financial Prospects           .......................   28
IV.   THE PROJECT ........       .....................................        30
A.   Objectives .........................................              30
B.   Description of the Project .....         ....................     30
The Proposed Line of Credit to LNDC          ................    30
The Proposed Credit to Finance Training of
LNDC Staff ...............................                    32
The Proposed Credit for the Training Grant Fund ....             33
C.   Project Costs and Financing            .......................    33
D.   Project Implementation .............     ..     ..............    34
E.   Benefits and Risks .......... . . .  ........................ .   35
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREENENTS REACHED ...............        ...       37
ANNEXES
1.  Structure of Interest Rates           ........................    38
2.  Summarized Income Statements 1975-1979               .            39
Summarized Consolidated Income Statements 1975-1979              40
3.  Summarized Balance Sheets 1975-1979    .           .41
Summarized Consolidated Balance Sheets             . .42
4. Financial Ratios 1975-1979               .        ..43
5.  Projected Operations ......         .........................     44
6.  Projected Income Statements ........... .. ...........            45
7.  Projected Sources and Uses of Funds ................              46
8.  Projected Balance Sheets ............ .. .............            47
9.  Projected Financial Ratios ........... .. ............            48
10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ................              49
11.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ................... ..................            50
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. Tei Mante, Keith Marsden and Ms. Kafka which visited Lesotho in
April 1979.



LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Basic Data
1.   Year of Establishment:  1967
2.   Ownership
Authorized Capital:- M 10.0 million, consisting of 10 million Ordinary
Shares of M 1.0 each.
Issued and Fully Paid:- M 4.0 million to the Government of Lesotho
3.   Resource Position (as of March 31, 1979).
In M Million
Foreign    Domestic
Currency   Currency   Total
Share Capital                                  -         4.0        4.0
Provisions less accumulated losses             -         0.4        0.4
Accumulated Funds                              -          1.1       1.1
Capital Reserve                                -          1.4       1.4
IDA Credit                                    1.9         -         1.9
Long Term Loans                                -          1.1       1.1
1.9        8.0        9.9
Less
Loans Outstanding                             0.2         1.7       1.9
Equity Investments                             -          1.1       1.1
Fixed Assets                                   -         5.0        5.0
Undisbursed Commitments                       0.6         1.6       2.2
0.8        9.4       10.2
Resource Surplus (gap)                        1.1        (1.4)     (0.3)
/



- ii -
4.   Operations
In M Million
1967 to
Approvals                                March 1976    FY77    FY78    FY79
Loans                                        1.8          0.3      1.2     0.8
Equity Investments                           0.7          0.8     0.4      1.1
Factory Buildings/Infrastructure             1.0          0.8      1.0     2.6
Guarantees                                   0.5          0.3     0.3      0.3
4.0          2.2     2.9      4.8
(M'000)
5.   Operating Results:
Year ended March 31                    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Gross Income                            669      405      508     576      714
Administrative & Other Expenses         256      316      449      545     564
Financial Expenses                       11       31       52       74     105
Depreciation                              15      20       19       20      26
Profit (loss) before Provisions         387       38      (12)    (64)      19
Provisions & write offs                  -   (1,217) (1,343)   (117)   (332)
Net Profit (loss)                       387  (1,179) (1,355)   (132)1/ (313)
6.   Financial Position:  (as of March 31)
Net Current Assets                      323    (148)   (133)   (115)        31
Portfolio Investments (net)           1,216      929      259     971   1,637
Fixed Assets (net)                    1,782   2,840   3,361   3,870   5,000
Total Assets                          3,321   3,621   3,487   4,726   6,668
Long Term Loans                         340      319      436   1,433   1,108
Net Worth                             2,981   3,302   3,051   3,293   5,560
Total Liabilities & Equity            3,321   3,621   3,487   4,726   6,668
Outstanding Guarantees                  253      771   1,950    649        888
Debt/Equity Ratio                     0.2/1   0.4/1   0.6/1   1.2/1   0.9/1
7.   Interest and Other Charges
Interest Rate                          Minimum 12.0%
Foreign Exchange Risk Fee :            1.0% per annum
Factory Rental              :          15.0% per annum (plus escalation clause)
1/   Net of a profit of R49,000 on sale of asset



- iii -
8.   Status of IDA Credit       :          (as of January 15, 1980)
Date of Effectiveness                August 23, 1977
Credit Amount              :         $2.5 million
Amount for LNDC                      $2.2 million
Authorized                 :         $1.6 million
Disbursed and Outstanding            $511,704
Foreign Exchange Risk                Borne by Government which charges
1% risk coverage fee
Terminal Date for Project
Submission               :         12/31/79
Closing Date for
Disbursement             :         12/21/81
Free Limit                 :         $100,000
Aggregate Free Limit                 $700,000
Amount for BEDCO                     $0.3 million
Authorized                 :         $0.3 million
Disbursed and Outstanding
EAPID
January 1980






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC), is a Government
corporation set up in 1967 to promote and finance modern non-agricultural
projects in Lesotho. LNDC got off to a good start and by 1973 had been fairly
successful in establishing about 15 projects and setting up good internal
operational procedures. Then its first Managing Director departed and a
suitable replacement was not appointed immediately. Instead, the Managing
Director of the Lesotho Bank, a wholly Government-owned commercial bank, was
assigned the responsibility in addition to his normal duties as head of the
Lesotho Bank. It was not until 1975 that a separate Managing Director was
recruited for LNDC, though on a temporary basis. In 1976 a full time Managing
Director was provided by CIDA, and in 1977, the first Basotho Managing
Director took over. The uncertainty concerning management which prevailed
between 1973 and 1976, had considerable negative effects on LNDC and offset
the progress which had been made in the early years. Good staff could not
be recruited and retained; the organization structure became ineffective
and internal procedures deteriorated; there was inadequate follow up on the
investments which had been made, leading to a rapid deterioration in their
performance; and the very few new projects which were started did not receive
adequate evaluation.
1.02      Although IDA had established contact with LNDC in 1973 at about
the time of the departure of the first Managing Director and had assisted in
recruiting the temporary Managing Director in 1975, it was not until early
1976 that it appraised LNDC for financial assistance. By then the deteriora-
tion of LNDC which began in 1973 had reached its peak. The appraisal there-
fore resulted in recommendations for improving all aspects 1/ of LNDC before
financial assistance could be provided. By then also, LNDC had acquired the
Basotho Enterprises Development Company (BEDCO), a Government company estab-
lished in 1975 to promote the development of small-scale enterprises. A first
IDA credit of US$2.5 million was approved for LNDC in 1977, of which US$0.3
million was allocated to BEDCO for lending to small scale enterprises. In
late 1978, the Government decided to separate BEDCO from LNDC and reestablish
the former as a public corporation. In April/May 1979 an appraisal mission
visited Lesotho to appraise a second IDF project. The mission reviewed the
progress of both LNDC and BEDCO, their prospects, and resource requirements.
It found that BEDCO's existing resources and expected new commitments from
other donors would be sufficient to meet its projected needs through 1982,
precluding any need for additional IDA financial assistance before then.  This
report, which is based on the findings of the mission, therefore deals only
with LNDC and recommends an IDA credit of US$4.0 million to the Government of
Lesotho to be passed on to LNDC. Of this, $3.7 million would be for financing
LNDC's normal operations and $0.3 million would be used for training of LNDC's
staff and of workers in new enterprises establishing in Lesotho.
1/   These included management, organization, staffing, policies, procedures,
portfolio and financial condition.



- 2 -
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
A.   The Economy 1/
2.01      Lesotho is one of the UN-designated "least developed" countries,
with a per capita GNP estimated at US$280 in 1978. Although the country is
mountainous, soil erosion is extensive, and less than 15 percent of its land
area is suitable for crop cultivation, subsistence agriculture and livestock
rearing are the main economic activities of about 85% of the resident popula-
tion and account for about 36% of domestic product. The economy is also
characterized by a critical dependence upon the Republic of South Africa (RSA)
which, inter alia, provides employment in its mines for about one-half of
Lesotho's male labor force. With the population growing at about 2.3 percent
per annum; with employment opportunities in South African mines becoming
increasingly scarce; and with the severe natural constraints to agricultural
development, the non-agricultural productive sectors of industry, 2/ tourism
and commerce must play a crucial role in any strategy to develop the domestic
economy.
B.   The Industrial Sector
Past Performance and Contribution to the Economy 3/
2.02      The industrial sector, although small and still in an early stage
of development, is one of the fastest growing sectors of the Lesotho economy.
National Accounts estimates indicate that the contribution of manufacturing, 4/
mining and quarrying and building and construction to the domestic product
more than doubled from 5.4% in 1973/74 to 14.5% in 1977/78. Of these sub-
sectors, mining and building and construction have been the growth areas,
respectively increasing their contribution to GDP by almost twelve and four
times within those five years. In contrast, the contribution of manufacturing
has declined in both real and relative terms. Manufacturing GDP stood at
M 3.2 million in 1974/75 and dropped to M 2.6 million in 1977/78 in current
prices. Its share of GDP fell from 3.2% to 1.6% over the same period.
1/   For a detailed report on the Structure of the Economy see Report
No. 2251-LSO dated February 22, 1979.
2/   Defined in this report to include manufacturing, mining and quarrying
and building and construction.
3/   The lack of a comprehensive statistical base and the need to derive data
from various sources suggests that all figures need to be interpreted
with caution and that conventional ratios, such as value added per
worker, have limited meaning.
4/   Manufacturing activity includes the processing of agricultural products,
the assembly of imported components, handicrafts and production of
building materials. Information on the performance of the manufacturing
sector is inadequate since there is no index of industrial production,
and the latest industrial census, in 1976, is not comprehensive.



2.03      The declining performance of manufacturing in recent years is
largely attributed to the difficulties encountered by newly established
enterprises in meeting their market expectations due to such factors as
competition from more experienced manufacturers based in the Republic
of South Africa, shortage of raw materials, high turnover of expatriate
management staff on whom there is considerable reliance, and shorLages of
Basotho supervisory staff and skilled workers. These difficulties have
led to low production in some enterprises, and even a few cases of failure.
The mining and quarrying sector has fared better because of the opening of
a diamond mine at Letseng, and because output of gravel, clay and stone has
responded to a buoyant demand from the construction industry. The upsurge
in construction has in turn resulted from a sharp increase in investment in
roads and other infrastructural projects as well as housing, the latter made
possible by a rapid growth in personal incomes.
2.04      Reflecting the still relatively small contribution of industry to
the domestic product, employment in industrial activities is small. Modern
manufacturing provided jobs for some 3,600 persons in 1977, whilst mining and
construction employed around 4,300. The modern industrial activities there-
fore accounted for slightly more than 1% of the labor force, compared to the
29% estimated to be employed as migrant workers in South African mines. In
fact, it is estimated that only about 1,300 new jobs were created in industry
in Lesotho between 1975 and 1978, despite investment amounting to over R 41
million. Employment growth has been below expectation because of a concen-
tration of investment in activities which are inherently capital intensive
(e.g., diamond mining), and possibly by an incentive system which tends to
favor capital intensity (paras 2.11 and 2.22).
2.05      Industrial exports have increased steadily, rising from M 1.8
million in 1973 to M 6.7 million in 1977 (in 1977 mining accounted for M 1.3
million). Its share of total recorded exports increased from 20% to 55%. In
spite of this performance, the trade balance in the industrial sector remains
in severe deficits. Imports of chemicals, machinery and transport equipment
and other manufactured goods rose from M 38.6 milion to M 126 million in the
same period.
Structure of Industry
2.06      Medium and Large Scale Industry.  As noted above, the diamond mine,
and quarrying activities dominate the mining subsector. In manufacturing, a
survey undertaken in 1978 of medium and large scale enterprises indicates a
subsectoral structure typical of early industrial development. Of the 37
manufacturing enterprises covered in the survey, seven were involved in
building materials, six each in textiles and metal based industries, five in
chemical industries, four each in agro-based industries and service activities,
three in woodworking and two in leather based industries. To a large extent
therefore, the type of manufacturing activities undertaken so far in Lesotho
has been influenced by the buoyant construction industry, and by the limited
domestic resource base of wood and mohair and sheepskins. These manufacturing
activities are concentrated in the two urban areas of Maseru and Maputsoe.



- 4 -
2.07      Small Scale Industry.  Whilst the absence of comprehensive data
precludes an accurate assessment of the role of small industries in Lesotho's
industrial structure, some 23,000 people are estimated to be engaged in
handicraft and informal activities which include petty services. The role of
such small and informal activities may therefore be substantial. Modern small
scale industries are, however, very few because of a shortage of Basotho
entrepreneurs capable of undertaking such activities. It is estimated that
such modern small industry activities employed only about 300 people in early
1979.
Institutional Framework and Policies
2.08      Although policy formulation and planning for industrial development
is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and
Commerce, 1/ it has yet to develop the capacity to undertake these tasks. 2/
Consequently, it concentrates on coordination, and supervision of the activi-
ties of other development agencies engaged in the sector. The principal of
these development agencies are LNDC and BEDCO. LNDC, which promotes medium
and large scale industry, tourism and commerce is discussed in detail in
Chapter III of this report. BEDCO promotes the establishment of small-scale
Basotho-owned enterprises through the provision of loans and equity funds,
leasing of factory shells and equipment and provision of business and technical
advise and training to entrepreneurs. BEDCO suffered some setbacks during its
early years (para 2.22) and thus has yet to make a major impact on development
of small Basotho enterprises.
2.09      Other institutions involved in industrial development in Lesotho
mainly provide training related to industrial employment. The Lerotholi
Technical Institute provides craftsman-level training in areas such as elec-
trical installation, basic electronics, carpentry and joinery, and maintenance
fitting. Whilst long term plans aim at developing the unit into one that
provides more comprehensive technical training facilities, it is not yet in
a position to provide the full range of background training for industrial
technicians in Lesotho. The Institute of Development Management, supported
by CIDA and serving Botswana and Swaziland in addition to Lesotho organizes
courses and workshops in several fields directed mainly towards senior manage-
ment. The Institute also undertakes consultancy activities, and research
studies. None of the Institute's programmes are specifically directed towards
industry, although some of its recent and proposed courses have some relevance.
For example, recent programmes have included courses in development, personnel,
financial and training management. Nevertheless, its services fall far short
of the needs of Lesotho's emerging industrial sector.
1/   The Ministry of Finance and Planning also plays a role in industrial
planning.
2/   UNIDO/UNDP assistance has been secured to prepare a strategy for industry
for the Third Five Year Plan.



- 5 -
2.10      With such a rudimentary institutional framework, Government strategy
rightly emphasises industrial development through private enterprise. Whilst
Government will not hesitate to take the initiative in starting enterprises
itself if necessary, it recognizes its institutional limitations and prefers
to promote fore4gn private investment in Lesotho as well as encourage indige-
nous entrepreneurs. Its policy instruments are therefore aimed at facilitat-
ing these developments.
2.11      The primary policy instrument is a set of fiscal incentives admin-
istered by a Pioneers Industries Board established under a Pioneer Industries
Encouragement Act of 1969. The Board, which is under the supervision of the
Ministry of Industries consists of five Government officials and the Managing
Director of LNDC; it has no regular professional staff. Any activities for
which a Pioneer Industry status is granted by the Pioneer Industries Board
can benefit from either a maximum of six years income tax holiday, or, alter-
natively, a number of deductions for the purposes of determining taxable
income. These deductions are depreciation allowances of up to 150% during
the first year of operations on the initial investment in machinery; up
to 75% on factory buildings in the first year; and up to 45% on industrial
housing. These allowances can be carried forward until they are fully
utilized. Additionally, training and wage allowances against tax, each equal
to 10% above the cost incurred for training and/or employment of Basotho
workers are available, as is a 15% allowance above the cost of utilities and
transportation within Lesotho, Botswana, Swaziland and the RSA of the bene-
ficiary's inputs and outputs.
2.12      Lack of a permanent staff severely limits the Board's capabilities
in comprehensively evaluating applications for incentives; thus decisions on
incentives are normally made ad hoc on a case by case basis. While a thorough
assessment of the effectiveness of the incentive scheme in meeting objectives
has yet to be undertaken, certain shortcomings are nevertheless apparent.
First the incentives only become effective if a profit is earned, and expe-
rience has shown that this is not easy to achieve during the early years of
operations in Lesotho. Second, because of the capital allowances, the incen-
tives are biased in favor of capital and appear to have led to investments
of a capital intensity not suitable to Lesotho's circumstances (para 2.06).
Third, although the employment and training allowances offer some balance
against the capital allowances, they do not appear to provide an adequate
inducement for the employment and training of Basotho. This is largely
because the pool of trained manpower is small, and investors, even if they
are to benefit from the allowances, have to incur substantial initial outlays
for training.
2.13      In addition to fiscal incentives, Government policy aims at main-
taining relatively free flow of goods and capital. Thus, although the terms
of the Southern Africa Custom Union (SACU) to which Lesotho belongs, together
with Botswana, Swaziland, and the RSA permit it to grant temporary infant
industry protection to new investors, the Government has been reluctant to
use this tool. Instead, it stresses the duty free aspects of trade within



- 6 -
SACU, quota-free importation of raw materials for manufacture of goods for
export, the availability of unlimited foreign exchange, and the relatively
free movement of funds within the Rand Monetary area as advantages to indus-
trialists setting up in Lesotho. It is difficult to assess the impact of
this free market environment on industrial development in Lesotho. Whilst
the lack of protection may affect some industries, Lesotho probably has more
to gain from maintaining an open economy with a free flow of goods, manpower
and money than it would from creating and protecting high cost industries.
Development Constraints and Issues
2.14      There is limited scope for sophisticated industrial policy formula-
tion in a country at Lesotho's stage of development. Moreover, even with the
best of institutions and policies, industrial development in Lesotho will be
a formidable task because of a number of constraints which, to a large extent,
cannot be alleviated by Government policy or action. First, Lesotho lacks
natural resources which could be processed economically. Most of the avail-
able materials are already being exploited in such domestic resource based
industries as grain milling, bricks and ceramics products, mohair tapestries
and sheepskin products. Second because Lesotho is in a free trade union with
the industrially developed RSA, local producers face the full brunt of compe-
tition from longer established industries in the RSA where the larger market
has allowed them to realize economies of scale. Third, because of the land-
locked situation of the country, transportation of goods and materials to and
from external markets is complicated and expensive and is largely dependent
on the rail network of the RSA.
2.15      These natural constraints are aggravated by the still weak institu-
tional framework, by an acute shortage of experienced entrepreneurs with the
capital to undertake even small and medium scale industrial projects, and by
a similar shortage of a cadre of managers, supervisors and skilled technicians
for larger scale activities. These latter constraints could however be alle-
viated by Government policy and action. They are therefore the primary issues
on which policy and action should focus, and Government is well aware of this
need.
Prospects
2.16      It is difficult to project future trends in the industrial sector
as it is subject to a number of imponderables. The mining sector faces the
most certain prospects as production of diamonds at the Letseng mine has come
on full stream. World demand for diamonds being relatively inelastic, and
Lesotho's share being quite small, output is likely to continue at full capa-
city (M 14 million per year) until the seam is exhausted in seven or eight
years time. Without any other known mineral resources, prospects for new
investments are however limited.



- 7 -
2.17      Prospects in manufacturing are contingent upon a number of factors.
First is strong and effective institutions-primarily the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, LNDC and BEDCO-capable of formulating and implementing Govern-
ment strategy for industrial development. Second is efforts to relieve key
constraints. These are availability of managers and skilled technicians,
availability of imported materials, and an improved and simplified transport
network for inputs and outputs. Third is the ability to attract new foreign
investment, as foreign capital, technology and managerial know-how is indis-
pensable for industrial development in Lesotho. This will depend largely upon
an intensive investment promotion effort. Fourth is the ability to encourage
local entrepreneurs through adequate training and financial assistance to set
up small enterprises. This will depend largely upon BEDCO's initiative and
development as a sound institution. Fifth, is the ability to exploit those
advantages offered by preferential access, particularly under the Lome Conven-
tion, to outside markets in Africa, the Middle East and rv-rope.  Finally,
existing medium and large scale enterprises will need to sort out their
operational problems; as most of these are LNDC projects, the ability of LNDC
to provide the necessary guidance and support will be crucial.
2.18      Dependent upon the success in dealing with the above factors, in
the short term there is still some scope for import substitution manufacturing
projects in such areas as leather tanning and woolen goods (e.g. blankets)
which remain notable gaps in the structure of production. In the longer term,
however, future growth of manufacturing output will require a progressive
diversification into export-oriented assembly type industries.
2.19      Continued expansion of construction activities can be anticipated.
They will be boosted by a big jump in foreign aid projects which include
roads and schools, and by continued improvement in private housing.
2.20      The Government's own plans for the sector for the medium term are
yet to be finalized since the Third Five Year Development Plan (1980-85) is
still under preparation. LNDC has submitted a proposal for the Plan; its
proposal anticipates a planned capital expenditure of around M 30 million (in
1978/79 prices) for manufacturing and commerce over the plan period; calls for
an additional employment target of 1,500 in manufacturing and 750 in commerce;
and proposes improvements in training institutions and activities. It is
expected that the Government's final plans and targets for the sector will
reflect the importance that it attaches to industry in its efforts to diver-
sify the base of the economy and create more domestic employment. Thus, in
spite of the formidable constraints, the industrial sector will remain an
important part of Government's development strategy.
Bank Group Experience and Strategy in the Sector
2.21      IDA's involvement in the industrial sector in Lesotho has so far
been through a line of credit of US$2.5 million to LNDC and BEDCO. In addi-
tion to providing these institutions with resources for their project finan-
cing operations, the Association has contributed, through its involvement,
to the building of these institutions by giving advice on policies, organiza-
tion, staffing and procedures. In both cases this technical assistance has



- 8 -
been well received and the recommendations implemented. The experience with
LNDC in this regard is discussed in detail in Chapter III. With regard to
BEDCO, management problems soon after the project was approved resulted in
considerable problems in 1977 and 1978 and consequently project implementation
was delayed. However, since the installation of a new management team in
August 1978, BEDCO has embarked upon a program of consolidation and rehabili-
tation and operations have been increasing; it is hoped therefore that BEDCO
will develop into a dynamic SSE development institution. IFC has also par-
ticipated in a stone crushing project with LNDC for US$330,000.
2.22      The Association's strategy in the sector is firstly to assist in
strengthening the institutions involved in industrial development. This
assistance is primarily aimed at LNDC and BEDCO which are currently the
principal development agencies involved in the sector. In this aspect IDA
can make an important contribution. Financial and technical assistance to
LNDC will continue through the proposed project. As BEDCO has sufficient
resources to meet its anticipated operations in the coming years, at present
no further financial assistance is proposed for the institution. However, the
Association has established a working relationship with BEDCO and technical
assistance will continue until completion of the first credit, anticipated by
December 1980. Moreover, through its own resources, BEDCO is expected to play
an important role in the employment generation component of the forthcoming
IDA-financed Urban Development project through provision of equipment and
working capital financing for entrepreneurs in the project areas. In addition
to institution building, the Association will assist in alleviating the more
pressing of the manpower constraints through technical assistance in its
projects in the sector. On the policy front, the Association is assisting the
Government to better formulate a development strategy through IDA involvement
with LNDC and BEDCO, both of which contribute to industrial planning and
policy formulation. The Association is also preparing a sector memorandum
which will review industrial incentives and assess the effects on industrial
growth of Lesotho's membership in the SACU. This will form the basis for the
beginning of a direct policy dialogue with Government on sector issues.
C.   Tourism and Commerce 1/
2.23      The tourism sector has experienced rapid growth following construc-
tion and expansion of a 470 bed hotel and related casino facilities in Maseru.
The number of tourists has increased from less than 5,000 a year in 1969 to
an estimated 175,000 in 1977. In 1977/78 tourism accounted for about 7% of
GDP, compared to 3% in 1974/75, and provided direct employment to about 800
workers, 2/ or 3 percent of modern sector employment. In addition, gaming
1/   Again, statistics presented below need to be interpreted with caution,
due to their derivation from various sources.
2/   This does not include employment in related activities such as restaurants,
laundries, etc.



- 9 -
and accomodation levies accounted for 5% of non-customs revenues. As in
industry, the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Commerce supervises and
coordinates sector activities and relies on LNDC to plan and promote its
overall development. The Lesotho National Tourist Office, a wholly owned
subsidiary of LNDC undertakes these planning and promotional activities.
2.24      The prospects for further development of tourism will depend
largely on developments in the RSA, where about 90% of the tourist traffic
to Lesotho presently originates. To date they have been attracted mainly by
the casino facilities in Maseru, and although Lesotho offers scenic and other
attractions outside Maseru, the underdeveloped infrastructural base makes
access to these difficult. Government plans therefore aim at developing the
hotels, inns, lodges, roads, recreational areas and parks which will permit
a diversification of the attractions, and provide a sounder basis for the long
term survival of the sector. This will be the area of future projects in the
sector, which will continue to be eligible for the incentives offered under
the Pioneer Industries Act of 1969.
2.25      Commercial activities have maintained a relatively stable share
of the domestic product. In 1974/75, they contributed 17.4% of GDP, and
in 1977/78 18.1%. Of the total commercial product, catering more than doubled
its contribution over the four year period largely because of the needs of the
growing tourist population, whilst retail and wholesale trading only increased
by about 40%, implying marginal or no real growth. While detailed data on
employment in this sector are not available, estimations are that in 1977
services employed about 14,000 people or about 3.5% of total domestic employ-
ment. Retail and wholesale activities are mostly conducted on a medium and
small scale basis, but a few large operations belonging to wholesale and
retail chains from the RSA appear to account for a major share of the domestic
trade. Since the bulk of this trade is in imported goods easily obtainable
because of the SACU and common currency arrangements, the prospects for steady
growth of the sector are good, unless miners remittances, the main source of
national income, should drop considerably. The prospects for catering depend
entirely on the prospects of the tourist industry. It is difficult therefore
to assess the investment prospects in the sector, but some expansion of
existing commercial facilities, and construction of new ones outside the
existing urban areas can be expected.
D.   The Financial Sector
Institutional Structure
2.26      The financial sector in Lesotho comprises, in the main, four commer-
cial banking institutions and four specialized financial institutions each
with a specifically defined role. In addition, a Monetary Authority and a
fifth specialized financial institution (an Agricultural Development Bank)
have recently started operations.



- 10 -
2.27      The commercial banks are Standard Bank Limited and Barclays Inter-
national Ltd., both local subsidiaries of the international banking groups
headquartered in the United Kingdom; the Standard Bank of South Africa,
which has a token representation in Lesotho; and the Lesotho Bank, the largest
of the commercial banks, and a 100% owned Government institution established
in 1972 with the primary objective of improving the mobilization of savings
and allocation of credit in the country. These banks are represented by
some 35 branches throughout the country, and perform fairly traditional
commercial banking functions of mobilizing monetary savings through time and
savings deposits, lending mainly on a short term basis for all sectors, and
facilitating payments of funds through offering checking accounts and other
transfer services.
2.28      To date the operations of these banks have been regulated by an
office of a Commissioner of Financial Institutions, in accordance with a
Financial Institutions Act of 1973. This Act prescribes, among other things,
minimum levels of capital and liquid assets for these institutions, provides
for periodic inspection of their accounts, and the maintenance of a compre-
hensive system of statistical indicators on their operations and situation.
This limited regulatory arrangement, and the lack of an institutional frame-
work for more active monetary management, has been made possible by Lesotho's
utilization of the South African Rand as its currency as part of the arrange-
ments which make it a member of the Rand Monetary Area (RMA). Under this
arrangement Lesotho's foreign reserves are pooled with RMA reserves and are
centrally managed by the South African Reserve Bank. As the Rand is freely
convertible through the Reserve Bank, Lesotho importers have virtually un-
limited access to foreign exchange, which is almost automatically granted,
upon presentation of proper supporting documentation (import license, etc.).
Its membership in the RMA has also made Lesotho largely dependent on monetary
and credit policies set by the Reserve Bank.
2.29      As noted in paragraph 2.26, Lesotho has recently created its own
Monetary Authority. The Monetary Authority Act of 1978, under which it was
established, gives it the full functions of a central bank with powers
to set and manage monetary policy. Under the Act Lesotho has now issued its
own currency, the Maloti, which will be freely convertible at par into Rand,
and is backed by special deposits in the South African Reserve Bank. In
addition, the Rand will circulate concurrently as legal tender in Lesotho.
Whilst it is expected that the central bank will be more active than has been
possible so far in monitoring and influencing the affairs of the commercial
banks, and in providing Lesotho with a greater degree of freedom in monetary
matters, it is not expected that its creation will lead to any departures from
the relatively free system that prevails in foreign exchange transactions, and
in the movement of funds in and out of Lesotho.
2.30      The four specialized financial institutions are LNDC, which concen-
trates on term finance for medium and large scale industrial, tourism and
commercial projects and provision of industrial buildings; BEDCO, which
provides term finance to small scale enterprises; The Lesotho Building Finance
Corporation (LBFC), which lends for residential housing, and is empowered to



- 11 -
mobilize resources through savings and term deposits; and the Lesotho National
Insurance Company (LNIC) which provides fire, casualty, motor and marine
insurance, and plans to offer life policies in the future. The Government
wholly owns LNDC, BEDCO and LBFC, and 60% of LNIC. In addition to these, the
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank has been set up to provide term finance
to Agriculture and has recently started operations. Branches of some South
African building societies, and insurance companies, and several local credit
unions, are less important parts of the financial institutional framework.
Resource Mobilization and Credit Allocation
2.31      The commercial banks, as the major vehicle for resource mobiliza-
tion, have been successful in mobilizing considerable domestic savings; in
the period 1975 - 1978 total deposits increased by an average of 32% per
annum from M 28.7 million to M 64.9 million. As of December 1978, demand
deposits accounted for 44% of total deposits, savings deposits for 35% and
time deposits (up to 12 months) for 21%. They have been less successful in
allocating these resources domestically. Primarily due to a paucity of viable
lending options in Lesotho, the banks have consistently maintained liquidity
levels well in excess of those required by their governing Act, and have
invested surplus resources in the RSA where the money market is well developed
and interest rates are slightly higher than those in Lesotho. To illustrate,
as of December 1978, the banks had liquid assets of 50% of total assets com-
pared to a requirement which will work out to an average of about 25%, and
had 42% of their total assets as foreign assets. In recent years, the banks
have, however, directed more of their resources to local borrowers, as indi-
cated by the decline in consolidated foreign assets as a percentage of total
consolidated assets from 59% at the end of 1975 to the 42% at the end of
1978. In addition, while historically the majority of lending was to the
public sector, in the past year the composition of lending has begun to shift
more to private enterprises. As at the end of December 1978 major sectors of
lending for statutory bodies and business enterprises were commerce, hotels
and restaurants (43% of credit outstanding) and agriculture (15%). Manufac-
turing which accounted for an average of some 11% of credit outstanding in the
period 1975-77, in 1978 accounted for only 3% of credit outstanding, a reflec-
tion of the somewhat poor performance of manufacturing enterprises. Most
lending is short term; the banks have never been a significant source of term
lending for industrial development.
2.32      To enable it to tap more resources from migrant incomes, the major
source of national income, the Government instituted a deferred payment scheme
in early 1975 whereby 60% of the earnings of migrant workers in the mines of
the RSA are repatriated as deposits to the Lesotho Bank where they earn an
interest rate of 5%. These are kept separately from the Bank's other deposits.
For the duration of the workers' contracts, withdrawal of these deposits is
only permitted for expenditure within Lesotho. Although loopholes and reluc-
tance to cooperate on the part of both some migrant workers and the South
African Chamber of Mines has precluded the scheme from achieving its full
potential (an anticipated M 20 to 24 million by the end of 1977), by the
end of 1978 outstanding deposits in the Deferred Pay Fund amounted to a



- 12 -
considerable M 17.4 million. Efforts are being made by all parties concerned
to correct the imperfections in the scheme, and should these be successful,
it could become an even more important source of resources for development.
Resources in the Fund are increasingly being employed to finance long term
agricultural development projects; none have so far been used for industrial
investment.
2.33      The role of the non-bank specialized financial institutions in
resource mobilization has been limited. LNDC and BEDCO cannot take deposits
directly from the public and do not therefore have any direct role. The LBFC
is empowered to accept savings and time deposits but did not begin to directly
mobilize resources until October 1978 when the Lesotho tax law was amended to
provide tax exemption on interest earned on deposits. Between then and March
1979, it had mobilized only M 238,000 of which 62% came from Government insti-
tutions. The LNIC had mobilized M 1.1 million by December 1978, after 17
months in business. Although this is a significant growth rate, it repre-
sented only a small proportion of the total domestic resource mobilization
effort. Of the M 1.1 million, only M 0.3 million had been invested locally;
M 0.2 million on deposit with the Lesotho Bank and M 0.1 million with the LBFC.
Interest Rates and Inflation
2.34      As a member of the Rand monetary area, Lesotho has little indepen-
dence in setting its own interest rates. Consequently, the level of interest
rates conform broadly to those in the RSA although at a slightly lower level
due to the comparatively smaller demand for loanable funds. Annex I shows
the structure of interest rates in Lesotho as of May 1979. This structure
reflects a recent trend of declining interest rates in the RMA which has seen
the prime rate in the RSA decline from the 12.50% maintained between December
1976 and September 1978, to 10.00% in April 1979. Commercial bank rates in
Lesotho thus have also declined. Current lending rates range from 10.50 to
a maximum 13.50%; in most cases around 12.00%. Commercial bank savings and
time deposit rates range from 3.50 to 7.50 percent.
2.35      Inflation also follows closely the trends in South Africa, albeit
normally at a somewhat higher rate. In 1978 the rate of increase was in
line with that in South Africa, although the price level is still higher in
Lesotho. Inflation was about 11% in 1976, 16% in 1977, and 12% in 1978 and
1979. Given these inflation rates, the savings and deposits rates have been
significantly negative in real terms in Lesotho, though this does not seem
to have deterred savers from saving with the commercial banks. Most of the
lending rates have however been marginally positive in real terms since 1978,
and will continue to be if the Bank's current projections of inflation, about
11% a year through 1982, hold true.
Financial Sector Issues
2.36      The principal issue in the financial sector is the continued surplus
liquidity of the commercial banking system, coupled with the investment of a
significant proportion of the resources mobilized locally outside the country;



- 13 -
and this is a country classified as one of the least developed 20 by the
UN, and where Government feels constrained in its development efforts by a
shortage of resources. Whilst the excess liquidity problem may be partly due
to the absence of a central bank as a lender of last resort and a consequent
desire by bank_ -o hold a level of reserves beyond what would normally be the
case, an overriding factor is the paucity of lending options in Lesotho. The
latter factor also accounts for the investment of surplus deposits in the RSA.
There is a need to develop viable options and instruments in Lesotho to diver-
sify commercial bank lending which has, to some extent, been limited by the
reluctance of the banks to accept livestock as collateral. The institution
of the new monetary authority, which would in time assume all the functions
of a central bank, could ease any perceived need on the part of the commercial
banks to hold surplus liquidity. Additionally, efforts should continue to
strengthen the institutional framework, especially the specialized financial
institutions, so that .hey can effectively tap excess resources in the money
market for long term investment needs; for example, mechanisms could be
instituted whereby LNDC could mobilize surplus resources from the commercial
banking system (para. 3.35).



- 14 -
III. THE INSTITUTION
A.   Institutional Aspects
Oblectives and Role
3.01      LNDC was set up in 1967 as a public corporation "to initiate,
promote and facilitate the development of manufacturing and processing
industries, mining and commerce in a manner calculated to raise the level
of income and employment in Lesotho." It was intended to be the principal
institution for developing Lesotho's modern non-agricultural productive
sectors, and as such was given wide ranging powers in the field of project
promotion and financing.
3.02      LNDC has developed a role in Lesotho's economic system commensurate
with this intention. It is responsible for promoting Lesotho as an invest-
ment area, and for assisting foreign investors through the processes of
setting up in Lesotho. It identifies medium and large scale projects in
the sectors in which it operates, and where it is unable to find suitable
investors, takes the initiative in establishing such enterprises. Although
not classified as a financial institution under the Financial Institutions
Act because it is not empowered to accept deposits, it is the principal
institution providing term finance for medium and large scale industrial and
tourism projects through its equity and lending operations. It provides
serviced sites and buildings for industrial and commercial uses. Finally, it
assists Government in planning and policy formulation in the industrial and
tourism sectors. Whilst this may appear to be an all embracing role for a
development finance institution, it is appropriate in Lesotho's circumstances
because the small size of the country and the shortage of trained and expe-
rienced managers argues against a proliferation of institutions, and for
combining functions which, in different circumstances may be divided among
various institutions, under one institution.
Capital, Ownership and Board
3.03      LNDC has an authorized capital of M 10 million.  Government is
currently the sole shareholder, with M 4 million of issued and fully paid up
capital.  The Board may consist of four to nine members; seven are presently
in position. As stipulated in its Act these seven include the Prime Minister
who is the Chairman, the Minister of Commerce and Industry who is the Deputy
Chairman, and the Minister of Finance. The remaining four were appointed by
the Prime Minister and are the Managing Director of LNDC, a prominent local
businessman, the Regional Controller for Southern Africa for the Commonwealth
Development Corporation, and a businessman from Switzerland. The composition
of the Board makes it relatively high powered for a development finance
institution, and demonstrates the great importance Government attaches to
LNDC. On the negative side, because the Chairman and ministerial members have
other pressing duties and because two other members reside outside Lesotho,
the full Board can meet only about four times a year to review operational
progress, set strategy and approve programs and projects. Routine operational
direction is therefore provided by a nucleus consisting of the deputy chairman,



- 15 -
LNDC's Managing Director and the Permanent Secretaries of Industry, Finance
and Planning who serve as advisors. The other members are however routinely
briefed by the management on developments and problems.
Management, Organization and Staff
3.04      LNDC's Managing Director, a Mosotho Economist, joined the corpora-
tion in 1975 as a deputy Managing Director, and became the first Mosotho
Managing Director in 1977 (ref para 1.01). Prior to joining LNDC he was in
charge of Development Planning in the Ministry of Finance and Planning and had
in that capacity served as an advisor to LNDC's Board. He has continued the
work started by his immediate predecessor in 1976 to improve LNDC's internal
procedures and controls, and has been instrumental in moving the corporation
away from ownership and managing of subsidiaries towards active investment
promotion. On the whole he provides LNDC with able leadership. Since 1978,
a team provided under the auspices of Irish Aid have been assisting in the
management of the corporation. Members of this team currently have line
responsibility for investment promotion and appraisal, financial control,
and management and control of existing subsidiaries.
3.05      The management system also involves extensive use of internal
committees, the most important of which are the investments, and operations
review committees which meet at least twice a month respectively to discuss
new investment proposals and to review the status of subsidiaries and asso-
ciated companies. 1/ These committees are chaired by the heads of line
departments with responsibility for these functions, and include the Managing
Director and all department heads.
3.06      LNDC is organized into four departments and an office of internal
audit each of which reports directly to the Managing Director. A New Indus-
tries Department, headed by the leader of the Irish team, is responsible for
investment promotion, project development and project appraisal. An Opera-
tions Department is responsible for control of LNDC's subsidiary companies
and those of its associated companies where it is the major shareholder. It
sets operational targets for these companies and monitors their performance
on a monthly basis. The Accounts Department is responsible for financial
planning and control, disbursements, financial reporting, and assisting the
subsidiaries in preparing their accounts. The Administration Department is
responsible for personnel, administration, training and legal issues. This
organization structure, which has resulted from successive streamlining of
previously more complex structures is appropriate and is functioning effi-
ciently for LNDC.
3.07      As of March 31, 1979, LNDC had a total professional staff of 38,
of which 14 were expatriates. All its departments were adequately staffed
except for the internal audit section whose head was under recruitment. The
expatriate staff have been provided mainly under various aid programs; the
1/   Subsidiaries are companies in which LNDC has a shareholding of 51% or
more, and Associated companies are those in which it owns 50% or less.



- 16 -
Irish Industrial Development Authority (4), British Overseas Development
Institute (3); the US Peace Corps (3); Swiss Contact (2); and the Commonwealth
Fund for Technical Cooperation. They all perform line functions, but have
been assigned Basotho counterparts who will eventually take over from them.
Most of the Basotho professional staff are young recent graduates who have
the necessary academic preparation but have yet to develop the highly
specialized skills and the seasoning of experience that is required for the
effective performance of their jobs in LNDC.
Staff Development
3.08      Recognizing that a well trained cadre of Basotho professional staff
is crucial to its long term strength as an institution, LNDC has recently
started a program of staff training and development to meet this need. A
special management training unit has been set up in its administration depart-
ment headed by an experienced training manager and assisted by two Swiss
training specialists. This unit has drawn up a five year training plan of
academic and specialized courses for the Basotho staff. Academic courses will
include first and advanced degrees in economics and business administration,
and specialized courses will be mainly in project evaluation, project manage-
ment, financial management and professional accounting.
3.09      Because of the paucity of educational and training programs within
Lesotho to meet these identified training needs, the bulk of the training will
be in institutions outside Lesotho, and LNDC needs financial assistance to
meet some of the costs involved. In this connection, assistance has already
been provided by various external donors for certain activities. The Managing
Director and the manager of projects have attended EDI courses. The Canadian
Aid Agency (CIDA) is financing bachelors degree courses in accountancy and
business administration in Canada for four of LNDC's staff; USAID is financing
a masters degree course in development economics for another staff member in
the U.S.; and the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa has financed the
participation of LNDC's manager of projects in an MBA program in South Africa.
Additional assistance is however needed in the areas of project evaluation,
financial management and professional accountancy.
Operating Policies
3.10      LNDC's operating policies are contained in a policy statement adopted
by its Board in 1977. This statement was prepared with IDA assistance, and
has remained unchanged since the first IDA credit was approved for LNDC in 1977.
It defines the powers and responsibilities of LNDC's management and the prin-
ciples that govern LNDC's investments and financial management. LNDC could
assist enterprises with loans, equity investments, guarantees, serviced sites
and factory buildings, subject to a limitation of 20% of its net worth or 60%
of project capital costs in total financial assistance (including guarantees
and buildings) per project. LNDC will limit its investments in equity to its
own net worth and will not provide more than 10% of its net worth as equity
investment in a single enterprises. It will not normally finance regular
working capital requirements and will not refinance projects. In addition,
it will seek to avoid managing its investments, unless this is necessary to



- 17 -
protect its interests, Its interest rates and fees on loans should be compar-
able with prevailing market rates in Lesotho and should enable it to earn a
reasonable return on its operations; so should its rental charges for building
and industrial sites. It will not incur foreign exchange risks with respect
to foreign loars, and will limit its total debts, including guarantees, to
three times its net worth. Finally, it will seek to revolve its funds by
selling off its investments when it can earn a reasonable return from such
sales. In making such sales, it will give preference to Basotho.
Operating Procedures
3.11      Investment Promotion:  As has been noted in paragraph 3.02 LNDC
bears the primary responsibility for promoting Lesotho as an investment area.
With assistance from the Irish Industrial Development Authority, it is now
developing a systematic approach to this function. It plans to undertake
ongoing market research to identify the types of activities suitable for
production in Lesotho, and the target companies in countries of potential
sources of investment who could be persuaded to come to Lesotho. This will be
followed up by intensive promotion of identified opportunities through direct
contacts with decision makers in the companies sought, seminars on Lesotho as
an investment area, and sponsored visits to Lesotho. In addition a publicity
campaign using advertisements, articles and direct mailing on the advantages
of investing in Lesotho will become a regular part of the investment promotion
system.
3.12      Project Appraisal:  Since 1976 LNDC has made significant progress in
project appraisal. Systematic appraisal is now undertaken for all projects,
and the quality of the analysis and information presented continues to improve
as the staff gains more experience. For those projects requiring assistance
in the form of loans, equity or guarantees, LNDC's appraisals are comprehen-
sive, covering their managerial, organizational, technical, commercial, finan-
cial and economic aspects. LNDC rightly utilizes the services of external
consultants in evaluating the technical and demand/marketing aspects of the
larger projects it finances. Where its assistance will only be in the form of
a leased factory building or site, the appraisal is still comprehensive but
the reporting follows a simplified format agreed with the Association. The
format involves a summarized review of the prospects of the beneficiary
company and its project, and a detailed review of the financial implications
of the lease arrangement to LNDC.
3.13      Project Supervision and Management:  Because of its present role
as a financier of both projects sponsored and managed by other investors and
projects it sponsors and manages itself, LNDC's follow-up activities fall into
two categories. Where it is merely a small shareholder, only a lender, or
just a lessor, follow-up has tended to be unsystematic, and only a few of
such projects provide periodic operational and financial information on their
activities. However, in a few of these cases LNDC is able to protect directly
its interests because of membership on the Boards of the companies concerned.



- 18
To improve the situation, LNDC plans to extend its periodic reporting require-
ments to those clients in which its financial involvement is substantial and
those which are defaulting on loans and rental payments. Regarding its
subsidiaries and associated companies where it has management responsibility,
LNDC exercises its supervision responsibility through the medium of the
operations review committee (para. 3.05). Monthly meetings are held between
the committee and the managers of these companies at which operational and
financial reports of the companies are reviewed and solutions proposed for
problems. With improved accounting in all the subsidiaries and associated
companies, the system is working effectively.
3.14      Legal, Procurement and Disbursement Procedures:  LNDC has adequate
standard formats for share subscription, loan, guarantee and lease agreements.
These formats were introduced in 1977 and LNDC has been able to prepare
agreements for all loans which were approved before then.
3.15      LNDC's procurement procedures require competitive bids on purchase
of plant and machinery and for buildings and civil works, and are adequate.
Disbursements of equity investments are made only after independent auditors
have certified that other partners have paid in their portions of the subs-
criptions. Loans are disbursed preferably to suppliers of equipment and
materials on presentation of invoices, whilst disbursements for civil works
and buildings are made on the basis of architects reports. On the whole
LNDC's disbursements procedures are satisfactory.
3.16      At the request of IDA, LNDC has prepared an Operations Manual
which details its procedures for operations discussed above. This manual is
satisfactory and will be useful reference document for new staff.
3.17      Financial Planning and Control:  LNDC has made significant improve-
ments during the past two years in financial planning and control. In the
planning area, a very detailed annual budgeting exercise now enables LNDC to
assess the costs of running its programs and departments, and to determine
possible operating revenues and deficits. Long range resource planning is
however still weak, and LNDC will need to prepare on an annual basis five
year operational and financial plans which will permit it to see its long
term resource picture and needs. In the control area the improvement in the
accounting system and the successful installation of a uniform reporting
system for the subsidiaries and associated companies, has resulted in better
internal control. Further improvements are expected with the introduction
of an internal audit sector in the corporation.
Financial Reporting and Auditing
3.18      LNDC's annual financial statements are prepared and audited accord-
ing to requirements set out in Lesotho's Company's Act. At the request of the
Association these financial statements have since 1976 included consolidated



- 19 -
income statements and balance sheets of the corporation and its subsidiaries.
Although the Auditor General of Lesotho is the external auditor of LNDC by
law, the audits have been undertaken on its behalf on contract by the local
office of Peat Marwick and Mitchell, a firm of international repute. Under
the first credit, the Association reached agreement with LNDC that its audit
would be completed and copies of the audited financial statements submitted
to the Association within four months of the end of LNDC's fiscal year.
Reflecting the improved accounting situation in LNDC, the audit for the year
ended March 31, 1979 was completed within two months, and was satisfactory.
Interest Rate and Other Charges
3.19      In accordance with agreement reached with the Association under the
first credit, LNDC currently lends at 12% per annum on all loans. In addi-
tion, on loans out of the IDA credit it charges a fee or 1% per annum on
behalf of Government for the latter's assumption of the foreign exchange risks.
This brings the effective rate on these subloans to 13% per annum. As noted
in para. 2.34 however, there has been a gradual decline in the level of
interest rates in the rand monetary area since mid 1978. The result is that
LNDC's lending rates of 12% to 13% are among the highest in the country for
lending, and even though they are not directly comparable to the rates of the
other institutions given the differences in the type of lending, are proving
constraining. They are uncompetitive with long term lending rates for
industry in the RSA and some of the homelands which are real alternatives for
the types of investors currently coming to Lesotho. Additionally, the higher
cost of IDA funds may deter investors from borrowing these funds because most
of the capital goods used in Lesotho originate from the RSA and for these
foreign exchange loans are not needed. For goods originating out of the RMA,
the easy availability of foreign exchange in the area also limits the utility
of a foreign exchange loan.
3.20      In view of these factors, and at the request of LNDC, the Associa-
tion has reached agreement with LNDC for a minimum onlending rate of 11% under
the second credit. The arrangements regarding the foreign exchange risk would
however be retained, bringing the cost of IDA funds to 12.0% per annum. With
inflation in Lesotho projected to decline from around 11% in 1978/79 to 10%,
9% and 8% respectively in 1980, 1981 and 1982, the new rate is expected to be
positive in real terms. Secondly, it will still yield an acceptable lending
spread for LNDC. The nature of the financial environment in which LNDC
operates requires flexible interest rate policies which will enable LNDC to
adjust timeously to changing circumstances and remain competitive. To permit
this the Association has reached agreement with LNDC for a system of more
periodic reviews of this lending rate between LNDC and the Association during
the commitment period of the proposed credit. The first of such reviews has
been scheduled for 6 months after the signing of the credit agreement.



- 20 -
3.21      LNDC charges a fee of 2% per annum on guarantees which is adequate,
and a rent of 15% per annum on development and building costs for its land
and factory building leasing operations. This rental rate is economic and
adequate because it provides for the recovery of capital invested within a
reasonable time, covers the cost of such capital, maintenance, insurance and
taxes on the buildings, and provides a margin of operating profit to LNDC
after appropriate depreciation allowances. To keep these rents at economic
levels, they are reviewed and escalated at five year intervals according to
the domestic building cost index.
B.   Operations and Finance
3.22      Operations:  A summary of LNDC's investment approvals since its
inception is provided below:
Through                  In M Million
FY ending March 31             1976       1977      1978      1979     Cumulative
Loans                           1.8         0.3      1.2       0.8        4.1
Equity Investments              0.7        0.8       0.4       1.1        3.0
Factory Buildings and Sites   1.0           0.8      1.0       2.6        5.4
Guarantees                      0.5        0.3       0.3       0.3        1.4
4.0        2.2       2.9      4.8        13.9
Because LNDC has not until recently kept comparable records of commitments
and disbursements, it is not possible to provide accurate figures on how much
of these approvals were committed and disbursed and what the pace of such
commitments and disbursements were. However, information available on the
13 projects approved in FY 1979 suggests that commitments are now made within
three months after approval whilst disbursements may stretch over two years
after commitment depending on the type of financial approval made.
3.23      Three important observations emerge from the summary which reflect
the extensive role of LNDC and its peculiarity as a Development Finance Insti-
tution. First the relative proportions of the four types of assistance has
fluctuated markedly from year to year because LNDC has been flexible in
responding to the financial needs of projects and has not sought to keep the
mix of the various types of financial assistance it provides to any predeter-
mined proportions. Second, because it is also a holding corporation with
subsidiaries and associated companies it has had to guarantee loans for some
of these companies, resulting in fairly substantial guarantee operations.
Third, investments in factory buildings and sites have accounted for slightly
over a third of cumulative approvals. This type of operation is an important
part of LNDC's investments because the land tenure laws of Lesotho vest all
land in the King and preclude the granting of freehold title to users.



- 21 -
Investors, both foreign and local, therefore face difficulties in acquiring
their own land, and have to lease them from a Government institution like
LNDC. Additionally, the provision of factory buildings is a facility offered
in other developing Southern African countries as an incentive to attract
investors, arA LNDC must provide them if Lesotho is to be competitive.
3.24      Various types and sizes of projects have received assistance from
LNDC. This variety is well illustrated with the 13 projects approved in
FY 1979. Of these, six were new, three were expansions and four were re-
structurings; two involved handicrafts production and marketing, three were
commercial wholesale activities and eight were manufacturing activities
ranging from stone crushing and brick making to candle making and furniture
manufacture; the loans ranged in size from M 15,000 to M 600,000, the equity
investments from M 5,000 to M 550,000, the factory buildings from M 90,000 to
M 282,000; the guarantees from M 9,000 to M 250,000, and the total project
costs from M 40,000 to M 1.7 million.
Resources
3.25      A summary of LNDCs resource situation as of March 31, 1979 is
provided in the Basic Data Sheet. So far the Government of Lesotho has
been the principal source of funds for LNDC's operations, having provided
M 7.6 million 1/ of the total resources of M 9.9 million. Other resources
included the M 1.9 million equivalent provided by IDA under the first credit
and three small commercial loans totalling M 0.4 million from Barclays Bank
of Lesotho, the Lesotho Bank and the Commonwealth Development Corporation.
Apart from the IDA credit, all of LNDC's resources are local resources.
This small proportion of foreign exchange resources has however not been a
constraint on LNDC's operations because most of the capital goods and services
needed for LNDC financed projects originate from the rand monetary area and,
where they have to be imported from outside the area, the resources of con-
vertible currency available have been sufficient to meet the needs. As the
summary shows, LNDC was overcommitted by M 0.3 million reflecting past poor
financial planning practices. This is not expected to create any financial
problems for the corporation since additional Government financial support is
expected in FY 1980. It does however point to the need to improve financial
planning in the corporation.
1/   Including accrued capital reserves.



- 22 -
Portfolio
3.26      The table below provides a summary of the nature and state of LNDC's
investment portfolio as of December 31, 1978.
Amounts in M'000s
Associated
Subsidiaries      Companies           Others           Total
No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount
A, Profitable Projects
Equity Investments           10       507.4    7        139.7    -       -        17      647.1
Loans                         4       101.4    3        335.1    1       648.3    8    1,084.8
Factory Buildings             4       405.5    4        649.8    8    1,183.4   16    2,238.7
Guarantees                    4       591.5    3       296.0    3        300.4   10    1,187.9
Sub-total                         1,605.9           1,420.6          2,132.1          5,158.5
3 Non-Profitable Projects
Equity Investments            5       111.3    6       206.7    -        -        11      318.0
Loans                         2        51.6    2        275.4    4       125.5    8        452.5
Factory Buildings             -       -         3       146.0    4       353.5    7       499.5
Guarantees                    1         7.5    2         80.0    -       -         3        87.5
Sub-total                           170.4    -       708.1             479.0          1,357.5
CO Total
Equity Investments           15       618.7   13       346.4    -        -        28      965.1
Loans                         6       153.0    5       610.5    5        773.8   16    1,537.3
Factory Buildings 1/          4       405.5    7        795.8   12    1,536.9   23    2,738.2
Guarantees                    5       599.0    5       376.0    3        300.4   13    1,275.4
Sub-total                         1,776.3          2,128.7          2,611.1           6,516.0
3.27      The portfolio of M 6.5 million is outstanding in 45 projects, about
40% of which have received at least two types of financial assistance from
LNDC. LNDC's total exposure per project ranges from a small M 20 equity
investment in a hotel holding company to M 1.0 million in a supermarket chain.
Five projects out of the 45 had more than M 0.5 million invested in them, and
these together accounted for as much as 60% of the portfolio, indicating
1/   The amounts for factory buildings are as revalued on the basis of
replacement cost less depreciation. It excludes undeveloped sites
valued at M 449,000.



- 23 -
substantial exposure in a few projects. In all five cases however, LNDC is
not exposed to excessive risks. The largest exposure of M 1.0 million in the
supermarket chain includes M 0.6 million of buildings owned by LNDC which
could be utilized for other purposes if the present company should go out of
business. These buildings are in three towns, permitting further spreading of
the risks.  The company is curently highly profitable.  The remai.ing four are
also all profitable companies and are not expected to have any difficulties
repaying the loans which represent a substantial part of the exposure in them.
If these five projects and six other projects in which LNDC's total financial
commitment was less than M 10,000 were excluded, the average financial commit-
ment per project was M 77,000 for 34 projects, indicating a good spreading of
exposure in the rest of the portfolio.
3.28      The overall quality of the portfolio has improved significantly.
Compared to 1976 when almost all the companies LNDC had assisted were in
financial difficulty, the summary as of December 1978 shows that 80% of the
amount of the portfolio was outstanding in profitable projects. Five out of
sixteen loans, accounting for only 15% of the loan portfolio was affected
by arrears on principal and interest over three months. Regarding rental
arrears, four out of 23 projects were in arrears over three months, and these
accounted for only 10% of the value of the factory building portfolio.
Equity Holdings and Divestiture
3.29      Of the 45 projects in LNDC's portfolio as of December 31, 1978,
14 were majority or wholly owned subsidiaries managed by LNDC and 13 were
associated companies some of which it also managed. One of the principal
concerns of the Association when the first credit was appraised in 1976 was
the then poor financial performance and situation of these subsidiaries and
associated companies. A detailed review of these holdings showed that the
management burden was too much for LNDC. The companies operate in diverse
sectors requiring specialized management skills and commercial knowledge not
readily available within Lesotho. Expatriate managers who were difficult to
control were therefore utilized extensively. The control problem was exacer-
bated by the absence of any management information system within the group.
The result was a record of poor financial performance even though most of these
projects were based on sound business ideas. In addition to the management
burden, the holdings were a financial drain on LNDC because their poor per-
formance necessitated a constant injection of additional loans, guarantees and
equity by LNDC to keep them afloat. In addition to recommending measures to
alleviate the management and control problems, the Association also reached an
understanding with LNDC and Government that progressive divestiture of these
subsidiaries should be a policy of LNDC, and that progress in this area would
be reviewed periodically with the Association.
3.30      LNDC has made reasonable progress in the divestiture area and in
improving the performance of the equity holdings. Since 1977 when the dives-
titure strategy was agreed with IDA, five subsidiaries have been divested;
50% of the shareholding in one has been sold; and three associated companies
have been sold off. The financial performance of the remaining companies has
improved significantly. This is shown by the following table which compares
the performance of ten subsidiaries which have continued in operations since
1976.



- 24 -
For year ended March 31                                         1976       1979
LNDC Equity Investment                                     M 258,692  M 368,292
Net income (loss) attributable to LNDC                     (M 218,547) M  27,725
Number of profitable companies                                   2           4
The improvement is also evident from the fact that only one project showed a
worse performance in 1979 compared to 1976. Because of this improvement LNDC
appears tempted to hold on to these subsidiaries, perhaps forgetting that
divestiture is justified even if the financial performance of these companies
were excellent because of a need for LNDC to reduce its holding company role
and direct its energies towards promoting new projects in Lesotho. During
negotiations the Association reaffirmed this position and the understanding
with LNDC and Government on divestiture was confirmed as still being a valid
policy for LNDC.
Financial Performance and Situation
3.31      Annexes 2 through 4 show Income Statements, Balance Sheets and
Financial Ratios for LNDC for 1975-1979. LNDC has operated at a loss for
the four years 1976 through 1979. Since 1975 when LNDC stopped receiving
non-operational income from sugar levies and mining royalties, rental income
from its land and building leasing operations has been its major source
of revenue, accounting for an average of 43% of total annual income. This
has represented an average yield of 10.4% per annum on the cost of the land
and building portfolio, and an average yield of 7.4% on this portfolio as
revalued 1/ and has been increasing as more buildings are leased at the
current rate of 15% on cost. On the whole, LNDC's financial performance
since 1977 has been below the expectations that the Association had when the
first credit was appraised. The Corporation made net losses in 1977, 1978
and 1979 which were respectively 35.2%, 2.8% and 4.9% of its average total
assets, compared to a projection of net profits as a percentage of average
total assets of 6.2%, 4.9% and 4.7% under the first project. Three main
factors have caused this poorer than expected performance. First, growth of
the portfolio has been less than expected because of a slower pace of dis-
bursements. As of March 31, 1979, the loan and equity portfolio was M 3.0
million compared to the projected M 5.1 million, and net fixed assets was
M 5.0 million compared to a projection of M 6.4 million. Second, the port-
folio did not improve as fast as expected, leading to additional substantial
provisions in 1977 and higher than projected provisions in 1978 and 1979.
Third, administrative expenses were significantly higher than projected
because of the costs of the new investment promotion activities and the
manpower development program. It is encouraging to note however that the
trend in financial performance shows clear improvements. Net losses have been
reduced from an average of 34% of total assets in 1976 and 1977, to an average
of 4% in 1978 and 1979 largely because the improvements in the quality of the
portfolio have resulted in smaller provisions. The improvements in the
financial performance of the subsidiaries have also led to improvements in
1/   The basis of revaluation is replacement cost less depreciation.



- 25 -
the consolidated financial results of the LNDC group, with group losses being
reduced from an average of M 1.1 million in 1976 and 1977 to M 0.2 million in
1978 and 1979.
3.32      The f'- r continuous years of operating at a loss have fortunately
not drastically affected LNDC's financial situation because of financial
support from the Government. The main adverse effect, evident after the 1976
loss, was the emergence of a liquidity problem. The current ratio dropped
from 1.3 as of the end of FY 1975 to a low of 0.3 as of the end of FY 1976.
It has improved gradually since then, and by the end of FY 1979, was again
over the minimum acceptable level of 1.O. The ratios on the Group financial
situation show a similar trend. The debt to equity ratios on both corporation
and group basis, and with or without outstanding guarantees considered as debt
were very low and not anywhere near the 3.1 limit agreed with IDA under the
first credit. Provisiens against the portfolio have been adequate since 1976
when a provisions policy was adopted. It reached a high of 89% of the port-
folio in 1977 when the portfolio was in its worst situation, but had been
written down to 46% as of the end of FY 1979, because of the significant
portfolio improvements achieved.
C.   Economic Role and Performance
Economic Impact of Operations
3.33      Although Lesotho's economic statistics base is too weak to permit
a rigorous statistical analysis of the impact of LNDC's operations on the
economy, some statistical indications of its economic performance can be
obtained from the employment effects of its operations, and from analysis of
the export performance and value added by a sample of its projects. On the
employment side, a survey conducted by LNDC in June 1978 of its subsidiaries
and associated companies show that they employed a total of 4,043 Basotho.
Of this, 2,235 were employed in manufacturing activities, 501 in service
activities, 586 in construction activities, and 721 in tourism. With total
modern manufacturing employment in Lesotho estimated at 3,600 in 1977, LNDC
projects accounted for about 60% of such employment. On exports and value
added the sample of LNDC companies on which data has been collected had an
average value added of 50% and exported about 55% of the value of their output
in 1978. Overall, it is estimated that LNDC assisted projects account for
about 80-90% of the annual value of exports of manufactured goods. LNDC's
impact on the economy of Lesotho, and its performance however go beyond what
can be demonstrated with the limited data, and beyond the operational results
of the projects-it has assisted. It has promoted Lesotho as an investment
area and as a tourist area, and the results in the latter case are evident
in the phenomenal rise of tourist traffic from about 5,000 per year in 1969
to about 175,000 per year in 1978. It has succeeded in developing a modern
handicrafts industry involving mohair weaving activities, ceramics and jewelry
making. Finally it has contributed significantly to planning and policy
formulation in industry, commerce and tourism.



- 26 -
Resource Mobilization
3.34      Because it is not empowered to take financial deposits directly
from the public LNDC's role in the mobilization of domestic resources for
development purposes is mainly that of a catalyst attracting equity and loan
financing from local investors and institutions for projects it assists.
In this respect, it's contribution has so far been marginal. To illustrate,
of the M 1.9 million in total equity invested in projects in which LNDC had
equity investments as of December 31, 1978, M 1.0 million was invested by LNDC
itself. Of the remaining M 0.9 million, an estimated 82% were accounted for by
investors outside Lesotho. The major factor for this performance is the lack
of an equity investment tradition among savers in Lesotho. Savings in the
form of financial instruments have been mainly in bank deposits. A related
factor has been the lack of an institutional mechanism to facilitate such
investment. Although in the past LNDC has looked at possibilities of selling
its equity holdings to the public this has not materialized mainly because of
the lack of a record of profitability of the projects involved and because
the institutional framework for executing such a policy did not exist. It is
still looking at possibilities, now that the performance of the companies has
improved, to sell off some equity to local investors.
3.35      LNDC has been more successful in mobilizing resources from the
domestic banking system for projects. This has been mainly in the form of
guaranteeing loans from the three commercial banks for both short term and
long term financing needs of companies. It could however do more, given the
continued excess liquidity in the banking system, and the availability of
surplus lendable funds, if a mechanism existed which will enable the banks
to invest these funds on a longer term basis. For example, the banks could
purchase LNDC bonds with the Guarantee of the Government and with the backing
of the Monetary Authority Bank to ensure that the latter will help them out if
liquidity problems should develop. Such bonds would be at commercial rates,
higher than the banks currently get from depositing their excess funds in the
RSA, and would be ideally suited for financing LNDC's factory building opera-
tions which carry less risks. This, and other similar mechanisms will however
require a strong and effective central bank, and unless this is developed,
LNDC is unlikely to have a major impact on the mobilization of financial
resources from outside the Government for development purposes.
Performance Under the First IDA Credit
3.36      The institutional improvements that have taken place in LNDC since
the first credit was approved in 1977 have been already discussed in various
sections of this chapter. To recapitulate, all key staffing positions have
now been filled, and where expatriates are still needed, suitable long term
plans for training and localization exist. The organization structure has
undergone successive streamlining, and is now functionally oriented and
effective. Operational procedures, especially the appraisal of projects,
has improved markedly, and accounting and financial control have improved
significantly. In line with a strategy of divestiture agreed with IDA, the
poorest of the subsidiary companies have been sold off, relieving LNDC of the
financial and administrative burdens of running them. Finally, a well thought



- 27 -
out investment promotion strategy for attracting more investors to Lesotho
from all over the world is being actively pursued. With all these improve-
ments, LNDC is a stronger institution than it was when the first credit was
appraised. However, LNDC's financial performance has been below expectation,
and substantial improvements are still necessary (para 3.21).
3.37      Regarding credit utilization LNDC has financed as of January 15,
1980 ten subprojects for a total of US$1.6 million and had other project under
review by the Association that would fully commit the credit; six of these
were above the free limit of US$100,000. The financing was in the form of
subloans for seven, and buildings for three. The projects assisted were for a
variety of activities; garment manufacturing, woodworks, food processing, shoe
manufacture, furniture making, sheepskin products, wholesaling and retailing,
candle making, and a laundry. Four of them were new projects and six were
expansions of existing projects. Five were export oriented and the rest were
for the local market, and except for the laundry, they all relied on imported
raw materials. The ownership pattern is mixed, with three being wholly local
owned, two wholly foreign owned, two majority foreign owned and three involving
equal partnership of local and foreign interests. The estimated investment
cost per job ranged from a low of US$1,600 for the new garment factory to
US$70,150 for the expansion of the woodworking project; the mean was US$18,206
and the median was US$8,050, indicating beneficial employment effects. The
financial and economic rates of return of the six of these projects on which
the Association required their calculation were all above 20%. Six of the
projects are in operation and five of these are operating profitably. The one
making losses is experiencing problems with availability of raw materials and
is thus operating at below capacity. LNDC has already taken adequate measures
to solve the problem and is optimistic about turning it around. The four
projects under implementation are on schedule. In sum, LNDC has so far
utilized the proceeds of the first IDA credit to finance viable projects with
potentially significant economic contributions to Lesotho.
D.   Prospects
Strategy
3.38      With the more basic of its internal institutional problems re-
solved, LNDC's main concern over the medium term is to build up the programs
and resources to play its important role in Lesotho more effectively. Its
strategy is therefore the following:
(a) to aggressively promote Lesotho as an investment area.
In this connection, the focus will shift from the RSA
which has been the major source of investors to Lesotho,
to Europe and America. Specific activities that will be
pushed in this effort include food processing and food
industry by-products, textiles and clothing, leather and
footwear, engineering and building materials;
(b) to continue with the efforts to improve the performance of
the portfolio of subsidiary and associated companies to the
point where portfolio income will be sufficient to meet LNDC's
operating costs and generate surpluses for new investments;



- 28 -
(c)  to continue with the divestiture program, but on a more
selective basis, and with priority to selling to Basotho;
(d)  to diversify the corporation's sources of long term
resources by seeking additional shareholders and new
lenders; and
(e)  to lay the foundations for a strong institution run by
Basotho, through intensive staff development.
This is a good strategy worthy of the Association's support.
Forecast Operations
3.39      In the absence of a completed Third National Development Plan with
growth and investment targets for the sectors in which LNDC operates, it
is difficult to derive an operational forecast for LNDC based on a macro plan
for the economy. The forecast operations in current terms for 1980-1984 shown
as Annex 5 are therefore based on LNDC's capacity to process projects, and
assume a reasonable degree of success with the investment promotion effort.
Even with this assumption, investment approvals are expected to increase by
only 4% in 1980 and to decline by 12% in 1981, on .he basis of LNDC's small
pipeline of projects as of March 31, 1979. The pipeline consisted of nine
projects which were expected to be approved within 12 months. These included
proposals for fruit and vegetable processing, paint manufacture, furniture
making, a brewery, and some commercial activities like supermarkets and
wholesale establishments. As the investment promotion effort takes effect
however, annual approvals are expected to show some growth in real terms
between 1982 and 1984. The projections also assume LNDC will be more suc-
cessful in providing more of its financial assistance in the form of loans,
and in reducing its equity investments. With improved internal control and
resource planning, LNDC's pace of disbursements is also expected to be sig-
nificantly better over the five year period than experienced in the recent
years. Although no subsectoral distribution of projected approvals can be
prescribed, it is expected that as in the past, the bulk of the projected
approvals of M 25.4 million over the five year period will be for manufac-
turing activities.
Forecast Financial Prospects
3.40      Financial Performance:  Projected income statements, balance sheets,
flow of funds statements and ratios are presented in Annexes 6 to 9. The
assumptions underlying the projections are in the project file. Even though
gross income as a percentage of total assets is forecasted to remain at levels
similar to those attained in recent years, overall profit performance is
expected to improve, with net profits being realized for the first time since
1976, in 1980. This is because administrative expenses are expected to be
more tightly controlled, and because the improved situation of the portfolio
will reduce the need for massive provisions against possible portfolio losses.
Whilst a projected increase in borrowings will lead to an increase in finan-
cial expenses, these are projected to remain well below 4% of average total
assets per annum, because of the current low debt base.



- 29 -
3.41      Financial Situation:  Despite its increased borrowings, LNDC's long
term debt/equity ratio will only increase to 1.2:1 by FY 1984, well below the
maximum limit of 3:1 agreed with IDA under the first credit. This low level
is both due to the increase in paid-in capital necessary to finance equity
operations and portions of factory building operations and to the very low
level of borrowings in previous years. With prudent financial management
and increased internal cash generation, its liquidity position is expected
to remain at a satisfactory level over the period. While the significant
increase in borrowings will result in tight debt servicing coverage ratios,
LNDC is expected to service its debts on time.



- 30 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      The proposed project is aimed primarily at assisting LNDC in further
strengthening itself as an institution. Whilst considerable progress has
been made in this area under the first project, there is need for further
improvements to bring LNDC up to the level of a dynamic Basotho run institu-
tion providing leadership in industrial, tourism and commercial development
in Lesotho, and able on its own financial strengths to mobilize the needed
financial resources from within and outside Lesotho for such development.
Under this second project improvements in LNDC's ability to properly plan its
resource needs, improvements in its financial performance, and upgrading the
quality of its Basotho staff will receive particular attention. Secondly,
the proposed project will support the efforts of the Government of Lesotho
to expand the modern non-agricultural sector of the economy and create more
domestic employment. This continues to be an important objective of the
Government's economic policy, and is expected to be given increasing emphasis
during the third five year plan period.
B.   Description of the Project
4.02      The proposed project will include three components:
(i)  US$3.7 million line of credit to LNDC to cover part of its
resource needs for investments in medium and large scale
enterprises from April 1980 through March 1982.
(ii) US$150,000 training funds to finance training in project
evaluation, project management, accountancy and financial
management of LNDC's Basotho staff.
(iii) US$150,000 training funds to finance part of the training
costs of skilled and semi-skilled technicians and workers
employed by new enterprises establishing in Lesotho.
The Proposed Line of Credit to LNDC
4.03      The line of credit will finance LNDC's equity investments and loans
for subproject capital investments, including initial working capital, and
LNDC factory buildings to be leased by subprojects. The projects will be in
all sectors in which LNDC operates (industry, agro-industries, tourism and
commerce).
4.04      Terms and Conditions:  This line of credit will carry the following
terms and conditions:
(i) Relending rates, foreign exchange risk and other charges.
The credit will be onlent by Government to LNDC at 6% per
annum. LNDC will onlend for subloans at a minimum of 11%



- 31 -
per annum, thus deriving a lending spread of 5% which is
larger than the spread of 3.5% provided under the first
credit; but which is necessary for its financial performance
needs. As discussed in paragraph 3.20, the 11% lending rate
of LNDC will be positive in real terms given inflation
projections, and is in line with prevailing interest ra..es
in Lesotho. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by
Government which will charge LNDC a fee of 1% per annum for
this service. LNDC will pass on this fee of 1% per annum
to subborrowers, bringing the minimum lending rate of the
credit to 12% per annum. Where LNDC utilizes portions of
the credit for equity investments and factory buildings,
it will bear the cost of the 1% risk fee itself. Rental
charges on factory buildings financed out of the proceeds of
this credit for lease by LNDC will be at a minimujm of 15%
per annum on the cost of such buildings, with LNDC's normal
provisions for periodic escalation (para. 3.21). This rate
is in line with prevailing commercial practice in Lesotho
and is considered an economic rent.
(ii) Free Limits: The free limit on individual subloans will be
US$150,000 and the aggregate free limit US$1.0 million. All
proposals to finance equity investments and factory buildings
from the credit will require the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation. These free limits will permit the Association to
review projects receiving about 70% of the credit.
(iii) Other Limits: To ensure that LNDC does not utilize the
credit for a few large projects with greater financial risks,
a maximum limit of US$600,000 of total financial commitment
from the credit per project has been agreed upon. This limit
is about 15% of the total amount of the credit, and about 50%
of the maximum financial commitment LNDC can presently make
per project under its investment policy guidelines. In
addition, the Association has reached agreement with LNDC not
to utilize more than US$1.5 million (about 40%) of the credit
for equity investments and factory buildings. This is in
support of the Association's efforts to get LNDC to provide
more of its financial assistance in the form of loans to
improve its income and cash flow.
(iv) Amortization Schedule: In conformity with the normal IDA
policy for lending to dfc's, the line of credit will have
a flexible amortization schedule that will conform substan-
tially with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of
the subloans, and the amortization schedules to be proposed
by LNDC for funds utilized for equity investments and factory
buildings. As under the first credit the individual amortiza-
tion schedules will be subject to a maximum of 20 years for
tourism projects and 15 years for all other projects, includ-
ing appropriate grace periods which are expected not to
exceed five years.



- 32 -
(v) Commitment Period and Fee: The credit will be available for
commitment by LNDC before June 30, 1982. Because of LNDC's
current poor financial performance, it ha.s been agreed
that Government will not charge LNDC any commitment fees for
this credit.
(vi) Debt/Equity Limitations: It has been agreed that the consoli-
dated long term debt to equity ratio of LNDC be maintained at
the 3:1 level agreed with IDA under the first credit, for this
second credit. Because of the extensive guarantee operations
of LNDC, and to ensure that it does not over extend itself in
this area, outstanding guarantees will continue to be considered
as debt for the purposes of this covenant. Furthermore, because
capital reserves from revaluation of factory buildings are
unlikely to be realized in cash because the land tenure laws of
Lesotho do not facilitate the sale of such buildings, LNDC's
accumulated capital reserves will not be considered as part of
its equity for purposes of this covenant.
The Proposed Credit to Finance Training of LNDC Staff
4.05      This US$150,000 project component will finance the external train-
ing of LNDC's staff in project evaluation, project management, accountancy
and financial management. The component will enable LNDC to send about three
of its Basotho projects officers to specialized training courses in project
evaluation and management, and about three of its Basotho accounting officers
to professional accountancy and specialized courses in financial management,
over a three year period. As noted in paragraph 3.09 LNDC's Basotho pro-
fessional staff need such specialized training to build upon their formal
academic training. Since there are no such specialized courses offered in
Lesotho, LNDC will need to send the trainees abroad. It is envisaged that all
trainees would have worked in LNDC at least a year before being sent out,
ensuring that their needs are better assessed, and that they are reasonably
familiar with LNDC's operations and needs. The funds under this component
will finance the costs of tuition, training materials and books, travel to and
from the place of study, and subsistence costs at the place of study.
4.06      Terms and Conditions:  The following terms and conditions will
apply to the utilization of these funds.
(i) The funds will be passed on from Government to LNDC as
a grant. LNDC is not yet profitable and cannot bear such
costs directly. Being an important Government development
institution, it will be necessary for Government to provide
this additional support to assist it strengthen its staff.
(ii) To ensure that the specific training programs selected for
the trainees are relevant and suitable to LNDC's needs, the
Association will approve all the training proposals to be
financed under this component, and will assist LNDC in
identifying suitable programs.



- 33 -
(iii) The obligations of LNDC staff benefiting from this
scheme will be in accordance with Lesotho's laws
and regulations regarding the obligations of those
receiving training and education grants and loans.
These, generally, require a recipient to remain in
the service of the sponsoring organization, in this
case, LNDC, for five years or repay the loan or grant
amount on a pro-rata basis.
The Proposed Credit for the Training Grant Fund
4.07      The US$150,000 proposed for training skilled and semi-skilled
technicians and workers in new projects establishing in Lesotho, will contri-
bute to the financing of an experimental training fund. Under this program,
investors in Lesotho will receive direct financial assistance in the form
of training grants for the costs they incur for training of Basotho workers,
if such training meet established criteria, and is approved in advance. The
program is an innovative approach to help overcome one of the main constraints
facing prospective investors in Lesotho, namely a shortage of skilled and
experienced manpower, and encourage the establishment of labour-intensive
industries (para 2.15).
4.08      Terms and Conditions:  This component of the proposed project will
carry the following terms and conditions:
(i) The US$150,000 will be administered by LNDC which will
receive the funds from Government as a grant.
(ii) Projects which will qualify for grants are new projects
and expansions of existing projects which involve
diversification of activities, in all sectors in which
LNDC operates.
(iii) The first five grants to be financed from this component
will require the prior approval of IDA. In this connection,
LNDC will submit to the Association information on the features
of the beneficiary projects, the employees to be trained, the
training program, and the projected cost of training.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
The total cost of the projects that LNDC is likely to finance from
April 1980 through March 1982 is estimated at M 18.4 million. Of this, LNDC's
contribution would amount to M 8.2 million, with the rest provided by sub-
project sponsors and other lenders besides LNDC. Taking LNDC's total contri-
bution to these projects as the cost of its investment program, the cost of
the proposed project is as summarized below:



- 34 -
-------- In M'000s ----
Local     Foreign      Total
Investment Credit Component                          1,639       6,556       8,195
Training of LNDC Staff                                   20        130         150
Training Grant Fund                                     145        130         275
Total                                           1,804       6,816       8,620
4.10      As noted above the costs of the investment credit component are
LNDC's projected commitments for equity investments, loans and factory
buildings from April 1980 through March 1982. The foreign exchange component
of 80% represents an averaging of the direct and indirect import components of
the expenditures under these investments, based on LNDC's recent experience.
The costs of the training component for LNDC staff are based on an estimation
of tuition, subsistence and travel costs for a minimum of six students each
undergoing a two year training program in institutions outside Lesotho, and a
proportion of their salaries to be paid by LNDC for the subsistence of depen-
dents whilst they are on training. Appropriate provisions for inflation are
included. On the training grant funds, the total costs are based on LNDC's
estimates of the wage, subsistence and travel costs of training of skilled and
semi-skilled workers for ten manufacturing and assembly projects.
4.11      The proposed financing plan is as follows:
I____- In M'000s --------
Local     Foreign      Total
LNDC internal cash generation                          860         -           860
IDA                                                    -         3,478       3,478
Lesotho Govt. and others (Loans and Equity)            799       3,338       4,137
Lesotho Governtment Grants                             145         -           145
Total                                           1,804       6,816       8,620
4.12      The proposed IDA credit of US$4.0 million will therefore finance
40% of the estimated financial requirements for the proposed project, although
the allocations for the two training components will finance larger propor-
tions of their respective costs. LNDC is expecting to receive US$2.2 million
equivalent from the African Development Bank, and has also approached the
European Investment Bank and the European Development Fund to raise additional
financing for its investment commitments. If these are not forthcoming,
Government will, as it has done in the past, meet the shortfall in resources,
and will thus finance the bulk of costs not financed by IDA.
D.   Project Implementation
4.13      LNDC will be responsible for implementing all components of the
project. Its new management training unit will implement the component for
staff training, whilst its new industries department, in conjunction with the
accounting department will bear primary responsibility for implementing the
training grant fund.



- 35.-
4.14      Reporting Requirements:  LNDC will be required to submit to the
Association quarterly reports which include a summary of operations, financial
position and resource situation, annual audit reports in accordance with IDA
guidelines for dfc's to be received within four months of the end of its
fiscal year, and copies of its annual budgets, together with copies of five
year operational and financial projections prepared at the time of the annual
budget. It will also report, in the context of annual review missions from
IDA, on the utilization of the training grants and on the program of divesti-
ture of subsidiaries. On completion of disbursements under the training grant
component, LNDC will prepare and submit to the Association a completion report
evaluating the results of the experiment.
4.15      Procurement:  Procurement for the subprojects financed under the
credit will be in accordance with LNDC's procurement practices, which are
satisfactory (para. 3.15).
4.16      Disbursement:  The proceeds of the credit to be used for investments
will be disbursed to finance 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods; 80%
of the local cost of previously imported goods; and 80% of the total cost of
civil works. The component to be used for training LNDC staff will be dis-
bursed to finance 100% of the costs of onetime travel from and to Lesotho,
tuition, books and related course materials, and subsistence during training
for approved courses. The component for the training grant fund will be
disbursed to finance, up to 80% of the total cost of each approved training
proposal. The estimated disbursement schedule for all components is shown in
Annex 10. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 1984.
E.   Benefits and Risks
4.17      To the extent that LNDC's capabilities to contribute to planning
and policy formulation in the sectors in which it operates; to identify,
promote, select and implement projects of economic benefit; and to mobilize
resources for investment in such projects are enhanced by the continuation of
the technical and financial support of IDA through this project, the project
will yield significant economic benefits to Lesotho, because it will have
strengthened one of its important economic institutions. The project will
also provide more direct economic benefits in the form of investments and
employment to be created with the credit component. These benefits are
difficult to quantify in advance. However, assuming that as experienced in
the past about 80% of the credit is utilized for new projects in which LNDC's
contribution will average about 40% of project costs, whilst 20% is utilized
for expansions in which LNDC's contribution will average 80% of costs, the
credit of US$3.7 million will lead to an investment of about US$8.3 million.
Considering the mean and median investment cost per job experienced so far
under the first project (para 3.37), and allowing for inflation, the invest-
ment of US$8.3 million could lead to the creation of between 450 and 1,000
jobs. With the acute employment problems of Lesotho, this additional employ-
ment will be a significant economic contribution. Finally, the training
components, especially the funds for training of skilled and semiskilled
workers, will contribute to the pool of skilled industrial workers in Lesotho
and assist in attracting more investors.



- 36 -
4.18      Given the past record of management instability in LNDC and its
heavy dependence on expatriate staff with two to three year contracts, cons-
tant changes in key staff create a high risk of constant fluctuations in its
competence as an institution. In the longer term this risk will be reduced by
the program to develop Basotho professional staff. Secondly, there are the
normal risks relating to creditworthiness that major portfolio problems may
create. Thirdly, given the severe constraints to modern non-agricultural
sector development in Lesotho and the inevitable need to rely on foreign
investments, LNDC's level of operations will be highly dependent on successful
external investment promotion and may be less than anticipated, leading to
slower commitments and disbursements of the proposed credit. Fourthly, the
expected improvements in LNDC's financial performance may not materialize if
the pace of growth of disbursement does not significantly improve, and the
quality of the existing portfolio should deteriorate. Finally, there is the
risk that workers benefitting from the proposed training grant scheme may be
lost to Lesotho through emigration. This is however a general country risk
affecting all trained manpower in Lesotho because of more lucrative opportuni-
ties in other parts of the rand monetary area. The potential benefits of the
scheme however make this risk worth taking.



- 37 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01      An IDA credit of US$4.0 millions to the Government of Lesotho to
be passed on to LNDC for the proposed project is recommended. During nego-
tiations agreement was reached between the Association, Government and LNDC
on the following matters:
(a) agreement with LNDC and Government on a system of
periodic reviews of LNDC's onlending rate (para 3.20).
(b) agreement with Government and LNDC on the proposed
project components, and the terms and conditions pro-
posed for these components (paras. 4.03 through 4.08).
5.02      In addition, the Association reaffirmed its understanding with
Government and LNDC that progressive divestiture of LNDC subsidiaries should
be continued (para. 3.30).



LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (LNDC)
LESOTHO
Structure of Interest Rates
(As of May 1979)
Commercial Banks
Lesotho Building       LNDC    BEDCO
Barclays Bank      Standards Bank Ltd.      Lesotho Bank      Finance Corp.
Lending Rates          10.5 - 13.5%         10.5 - 12.5%        a) Govt.              a)if property
Loans:   9.0%       to be rented: 12.0% 12%-13%   12%
b) Other:10%-12%    b)Other:          11.0%
Savings Rates             3.5%                 3.5%                    5.0%                 6.0%                        -
Deposits
31 days           (Min.R1000)  5.5%            4.0%                    5,25%                  -                         -
60 days           (Min.R1000)  5.75%           5.75%                   5.75%                                               co
88 days           (Min.RlCOO)  6.0%            6.0%                    6.0% 
6 months          (Min.R 100)  6.75%           6.25%                   6.25%                  _
12 months         (Min.R 100)  7.5%            7.5%                    7.50%                8.0%
24 months                 -                     -                       -                   8.5%
36 months                                                                                   9.00%
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
EAPID
January 1980



- 39 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Summarized Income Statements 1975 - 1979
(W'0OWS)
Year ended March 31                        1975      1976      1977      1978      1979
INCOME
Interest                                109        69       104        97       165
Dividends                               267       130       190       197        48
Rent                                    135       187       198       236       339
Accounting and Management Fees            22        11         7       16          4
Other                                      1         8         9       25       158
Commercial and Mining Agreements        133        -         -         -         -
Gross Income                          667       405       508       571       714
EXPENSES
Interest                                 11        31        52        74       105
Wages and Salaries                       2           6       155       211
Administrative Expenses               7  56        31       294        331    7 564
Depreciation                              13       20        19        23        26
282       367      520       639       695
Profit (loss) Before Provisions
and Extraordinary Items                 387         38      (12)      (68)       19
Provisions for Portfolio Losses          -       (924)  (1,323)      (117)    (186)
Losses on Portfolio                      -       (293)       -         _
Profit (loss) on Sale of Asset            -        -         -         54        -
Other                                                       (20)       -       (146)
Net Profit (loss)                        387   (1X*&=)  (I.355)    (131)    (313)
EAPID
January 1980



-40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2..of 2
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Summarized Consolidated Income Statements 1975 - 1979
(M' OOs)
Year ended March 31                       1975      1976     1977      1978      1979
Sales                                     2,534    4.290    5.155    5.003    6,666
Group  Operating Loss                      (128)    (416)    (8 3)    (529)    (243)
Tax                                          (1)      (25)     (10)       (9)      (34)
(129)    (441)    (883)    (538)    (277)
(Profit) Losses Attributable to
Outside Shareholders                       51        41      102        66        (4)
(78)    (400)    (781)    (472)    (281)
Add Dividends from Associated
Companies                                 267      151       149       210        48
Profit (loss) Before Extraordinary
Items                                   _ 189     (249)    _632)    _262)   _(233)
Investment/Development Expense
Write Offs                                -        (116)     -         -        (146)
Provisions                                  -        (566)    (426)    (267)       (91)
Other (From Sale of Assets)                 -         -        -          54       -
Government Grant                            -         -        -         -         158
Profit (loss): Continuing Operations        189     _931)  (1,P5§)   _142)    _(31Z)
BEDCO
Losses                                    -        -        (236)      -
Reversal on Disposal  of Company          -        -         -         282      -
Lesotho Housing Corporation
Losses                                    -        -         (61)      (38)      _
Government Grants                         -        -         -          99      -
Net Group Profit (loss) to
Retained Earnings                         189     931)  (a1,3_)    _132)   _1312)
EAPID
January 1980



- 41 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Summarized Balance Sheets 1975-1979
(M'000s)
As of March 31                  1975      1976     1977      1978      1979
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                           320         1      149       578       239
Accounts Receivable             61        61       61       190       233
Stock                           14        12       15         2         2
TOTAL                        395        74      225       770       474
Portfolio
Loans                          816    1,140    1,633    2,381    1,947
Equity Investments             418       608      734       769    1,089
1,234    1,748    2,367    3,150    3,036
Less Provisions                 -       (819)  (2,108)  (2,179)   (1,399)
1,234      929       259       971    1,637
Net Fixed Assets             1,785    2,840    3,361    3,870    5;000
TOTAL ASSETS               32414    3,843    3.845    5.611    7.lll
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                73        64      170       257       335
Overdraft                       35       158      188       189       108
Short Term Bank Loan             -        -        -        439        -
TOTAL                        108      222       358       885       443
Long Term Liabilities            323       320      436    1,434    1,108
Equity
Share Capital                    -        -        -         -      4,000
Accumulated Funds              993    1,743    2,553    2,633    1,133
993    1,743    2,553    2,633    5,133
Retained Earnings (losses) 1,990         810     (545)    (676)    (989)
2,983    2,553    2,008    1,957    4,144
Capital Reserve               -          748    1,043    1,335    1,416
TOTAL                       2,983    3,301    3,051    3,292    5,560
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY  X 414    3..843    3 845   5=.611    7111
Special Note
Unexpired Guarantees              253       771    1,950       649       888
Undisbursed Capital
Commitments                     377    1,008    1,213        750    2,244
TAPIT,
January 1980



- 42 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
LESOTRO NATIONALIDEVELOPIENT CORPORATION
Summarized Consolidated Balance Sheets
(M' WOOs)
As of March 31                 1975      1976     1977      1978     1979
ASSETS
Current Assets
Stock                         663       660      599       374      768
Debtors                       420       460      512       564      883
Bank Balances and Cash        388       498      493       694      379
TOTAL                     1471    1l,6       1_=604    1=62    2===30
Goodwill                       30        -        -         -        59
Portfolio
Interest in Associated
Companies                   546       765      424       532      850
Unsecured Loans               130        30       10        27       -
Other Long Term Loans         189       174      166       147       -
865      969       600      706       850
Other Assets                   -         -        -        439       -
Fixed Assets (net)          2,154    3-,697    5,201    5,299    6,282
TOTAL ASSETS              4,520    6=284    7.405    8.076    9,221
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Loans and Overdrafts          779    1,174       767    1,383       717
Creditors and Provisions      489       727    1,193       963    1,158
Taxation                       -         -        29        33       66
TOTAL                     l268 11,===        1 =989    2,379    1l941
Long Term Liabilities
Loans                         533       655    1,172    2,255    1,431
Deferred Taxation              -         23       22        20       16
Attributable to outside
Shareholders                (33)      (33)      79        40      211
TOTAL                       500       645    1l273    2.315    1±658
Eqjui ty
Share Capital                  -         -        -         -     4,000
Accumulated Funds             993    2,165    3,614    2,686    1,133
993    2,165    3,614    2,686    5,133
Retained Earnings (losses) 1,759        810     (545)    (676)    (989)
2,752    2,975    3,069    2,010    4,144
Capital Reserve                -        763    1,073    1,372    1,478
2,752    3,738    4,142    3,382    5,622
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 420:   6,284    7.404    8,076    9,221
Unexpired Guarantees            133       570       635      187       564
EAPID
January 1980



- 43 -                              ANNEX 4
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION
Financial Ratios 1975 - 1979
Year ending March 31                  1975     1976      1977      1978      1979
1. Income Statement Items as
% of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                     20.6      11.2      13.2     12.1      11.2
Financial Expenses                0.3       0.9       1.4      1.6       1.7
Administrative Expenses 1/        8.3       9.3      12.2     12.0       9.3
Gross Profit (loss)              12.0       1.0      (0.3)    (1.4)      0.3
Provisions for Loans and
Investments                     -        25.5     34.4       2.5       2.9
Net Profit (loss)                12.0    (32.5)   (35.2)    (2.8)    (4.9)
2. Selected Income and Cost
Items
Rental Income as I of Average
Land and Building Portfolio
at Cost                         9.1      10.1      9.5      10.3      11.7
Rental Income as % of Average
Land and Building Portfolio
at Valuation                    -         8.4      6.6       6.8       7.9
Dividend Income as % of
Average Equity Portfolio       62.7      25.3     28.3      26.2       5.2
Interest Income as % of
Average Loan Portfolio 2/    16.6         7.1       7.5      4.8       7.6
Cost of Debt as % of
Average Long Term Debt          3.3       9.6     13.8       7.9       8.3
Cost of Debt as % of Average
Total Debt                      3.0       7.4      9.4       5.5       6.4
3. Financial Structure
A.  Corporation
Current Ratio                 1.3      0.3       0.6       0.9       1.1
Long Term Debt/Equity 3/    0.1         0.1      0.2       0.7       0.3
Long Term Debt & Guarantees/
Equity 3/                   0.2      0.4       1.2       1.1       0.5
Provisions as % of Loan
and Equity Portfolio        -       46.9      89.1      69.1     46.1
B.  Group
Current Ratio                 1.2      0.9       0.8       0.7       1.0
Long Term Debt/Equity 3,    0.2         0.2      0.4       1.2       0.4
Long Term Debt & Guarantees/
Equity 3/                   0.2      0.4       0.6       1.2       0.5
1/ Including depreciation
2/ Interest income includes interest en short term deposits
3/ Equity excludes capital reserves.
EAPID
January 1980



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected Operations
(M'OOOs)
Year ending March 31               1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
APPROVALS                          4,950    4,400    4,700    5,200    6,112
Loans                            1,400    1,680    2,016    2,419    2,903
Equity                           1,450    1,000        700       480      528
Factory and Infrastructure       1,100    1,320    1,584    1,901    2,281
Guarantees                       1,000       400       400      400       400
COMNITMENTS                        -3465    4,565    4,610    5,000    5,839
Loans                              980    1,596    1,915    2,248    2,758
Equity                           1,015    1,135        790      546       514
Factory and Infrastructure         770    1,254    1,505    1,806    2,167
Guarantees                         700       580       400      400       400
DISBURSEMENTS                      2,640    4,035    3,864    4,265    4,927
Loans                            1,070 1/ 1,482 3/ 1,600    1,984    2,385
Equity                             812 1/ 1,111 3/   859         595      520
Factory and Infrastructure         758 2/ 1,442    1,405    1,686    2,022
1/ Includes 1,182,000 committed and outstanding at March 31, 1979
2/  "          163,000    "        "II  IT  II   I I
31  n'         899,000    "        "       "       "          "     IT
EAPID
January 1980



- 45 -                           ANNEX 6
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected Income Statements
(M'OOOs)
Year  ending March 31              1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
INCOME
Dividends                         217       243       262      303       359
Interest on Loans                 290       416      555       708       895
Guarantee Interest                 23        31        35       36        37
Rental                            447       612       825    1,057    1,335
Other                              28        30        34       35        37
GROSS INCOME                  1,005    l==332   1a711    2,139    2,663
EXPENSES
Wages and Salaries                215       247       284       327      376
Expenses for Promotion             80        92       106      122       140
Administrative Expenses           401       462       531      610       702
Depreciation                       13        13        13       13        13
Interest Payable                  166       285       427      552       696
Amortization of Goodwill             2        2         2         2        2
TOTAL EXPENSES                  877    1,101    1,363    1,626    1,929
Profit (loss) before
Provisions                      128       231       348      513       734
Provisions                         94       130       123      129       145
Net Profit (loss)                  34       101       225      384       589
EAPID
January 1980



- 46W-                           ANNEX 7
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(M'OOOs)
Year ending March 31               1980     1981      1982     1983      1984
SOURCES
Cash from Operations             143       246      363       528       749
Loan Collections                  136      194       301      449       609
Draw cbwn on Borrowings
IDA I                          875       612      232        -        -
IDA II                                   512    1,280    1,024       384
Government & Others            666    1,259       885    1,613    3,248
New Equitv                        800    1,200       900    1,000       500
Sales of Shares                    52       90       141      177       197
TOTAL SOURCES               2=672   4=113    4 102    4 791    5.687
USES
Disbursements on:
Loans                        1,070    1,482    1,600    1,984    2,385
Equity                         812    1,111       859       595      520
Factory Buildings              758    1,442    1,405    1,686    2,022
Loan Repayments                    31       65       225      513       747
Investment in Other Fixed
Assets                          13        13       13        13       13
TOTAL USES                   2 .684    4113    41=02    4IZa1   5.687
Changes in Net Current
Assets                         tl2) 1/   -        -         -        -
TOTAL                        2.672    4X113    4.102   4=.791    5.687
1/ Includes adjustment of 31 for current maturities of 1979 long term debts
which are not netted out in projections.
EAPID
January 1980



- 47 -                             ANNEX 8
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected Balance Sheet
(M'000s)
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
ASSETS
Net Current Assets                  50        50        50       50        50
Portfolio
Loans                            2,881    4,169    5,468    7,003    8,779
Equity                           1,791    2,812    3,530    3,948    4,271
Total                          4,672    6,981    8,998   10,951   13,048
Provisions                       1,493    1,623    1,746    1,875    2,020
Net Portfolio                    3,179    5,358    7,252    9,076   11,028
Fixed Assets
Factory Buildings and
Infrastructure                 5,630    7,072    8,477   10,163   12,185
Other (net)                        128       128       128      128       128
TOTAL                          52758    7*200    8,605   10* 291   12.3i3
Goodwill                            57        55        53       51        49
TOTAL ASSETS                   9,044  12_663   15960   19_468   2=3./4=0
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Long Term Liabilities
IDA I                            1,056    1,668    1,889    1,790    1,630
12% loan                            77        60        42       23         5
9% loan                           280       280       243      187       131
8% loan                           169       165      160       154       147
5% loan                           396       352      265       176       129
Interest Free Loan                   6         6         6        6         6
IDA II                                       512    1,792    2,765    2,970
Government & Others                666    1,925    2,743    4,163    7,129
TOTAL                          2,650    4.,968    7.140   92.264   12.147
Equity
Share Capital                    4,800    6,000    6,900    7,900    8,400
Accumulated Funds                   38       139       364       748    1,337
Grants in Cash & Assets            140       140       140      140       140
Capital Reserve                  1,416    1,416    1,416    1,416    1,416
TOTAL                          6&394    7..695    8 820   10.203   11293
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY   9,044   12,663   15,960   19,468   23,440
Guarantees                       1,410    1,708    1,766    1,813    1,850
EAPID
January 1980



LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROJECTED FINANCIAL RATIOS
Year ending March 31                                     1980       1981       1982        1983       1984
1.  Income Statement as % of average
Total Assets
Gross income                                         12.8       12.3       12.0       12.1       12.4
Less:  Financial Expenses                             2.1        2.6        3.0        3.2        3.4
Expenses for Promotion                        1.0        0.8        0.7        0.7        0.6
Administrative Expenses                       8.0        6.7        5.8        5.4        5.1
Gross Profit                                          1.7        2.2        2.5        2.8        3.3
Less:  Provision for Loans & Investment               1.2        1.2        0.9        0.7        0.7
Net Profit (Loss)                                     0.5        1.0        1.6        2.1        2.6
2.  Selected Income and Cost Items
oo
Rental Income as % of Average Building
Portfolio                                           8.5        9.6       10.6       11.3       11.9
Divident Income as % of Average Equity
Portfolio                                         15.7        10.6        8.3        8.1        8.7
Income from Loans as % of Average Loan
Portfolio                                         12.0        11.8       11.5       11.4       11.3
Cost of Debt as % of Average Total Debt               8.3        7.3        7.0        6.7        6.5
3. Net Profit
Net Profit (Loss) as % of year end
Equity                                             0.5         1.3        2.6        3.8        5.2
Net Profit (Loss) as % of Average
Equity                                             0.6         1.4        2.7        4.0        5.5
4.  Debt                                                                                                                 X
Long term debt: equity  1/2/  0.8:1   1.1:1      l.2~l      1.3:1      1.4:1
Long term debt: equity  - -                           0.8:1        1.1:1      1.2''    1.3:1      1.4:1
Long term debt: equity   1//0.5:1                                0.8:1      1.0:1      1.1:1      1.2:1
Interest and principal tovFragL                      1.6:1       1.5:1      1.2:1      1.0:1      1.0:1
EAPID            1/ equity excludes capital reserves
January 1980    2/ debt includes guarataes
3/ debt excludes guarantees



- 49 -
ANNEX 10
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Cumulative Disbursements In $'000
IDA Fiscal Year and                                Technical Assistance
Quarter Ending                Credit Component    Component                  Total
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                  170                     60                 230
December 31, 1980                   230                     80                 310
March 31, 1981                      590                     80                 670
June 30, 1981                       960                     80               1,040
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                1,320                    140               1,460
December 31, 1981                 1,690                    160               1,850
March 31, 1982                    2,060                    160               2,220
June 30, 1982                     2,300                    180               2,480
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                2,650                    240               2,890
December 31, 1982                 2,950                    260               3,210
March 31, 1983                    3,240                    260               3,500
June 30, 1983                     3,350                    280               3,630
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                3,460                    280               3,740
December 31, 1983                 3,570                    280               3,850
March 31, 1984                    3,700                    300               4,000
June 30, 1984
EAPID
January 1980



- 50 -                            ANNEX 11
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports on the Sectors
A.1    Government of Lesotho:  Census of Industrial Production
1969/70 - 1975/76
A.2    Barclays Bank International Ltd: Economic Conditions in
Lesotho: 1978
A.3    LNDC: Draft Chapter on Commerce, Industry, Tourism and
Labour for 3rd Five Year Development Plan
A.4    Registrar of Financial Institutions:  Draft Report for 1978
A.5    Annual Report for 1978 of Lesotho Bank, Standard Bank of
Lesotho, Lesotho Building Finance Corporation and Lesotho
Insurance Corporation
A.6    Lesotho Monetary Authority Act 1978
B. General Reports Relating to the Project
B.1    LNDC:  Annual Financial Statements 1975-1979
B.2    LNDC:  Replies to Questionnaire of IDA mission on Policies,
Procedures, Organization, Staff, Operations Portfolio
and Projections
B.3    LNDC:  Assumptions for Operational and Financial Projections
and Selected Working Papers.
EAPID
January 1980



