Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        C  A
Report No. P-2637-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
SECOND LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJ
February 6, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit        -           Maloti (M)
US$1.00       = M 0.87    -    R 0.87
M1.00         - US$1.15   -    R 1.00
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BEDCO:     Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CIDA :    Canadian International Development Agency
LBFC :    Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
LNIC :    Lesotho National Insurance Corporation
RMA  :    Rand Monetary Area
RSA  :    Republic of South Africa
SACU :     Southern Africa Customs Union
FISCAL YEAR
Government: April 1 - March 31
LNDC      : April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
SECOND LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower        : Kingdom  of Lesotho
Beneficiary    : Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC)
Amount          : US$4.0 million equivalent
Terms           : Standard
Onlending Terms:  The Government would lend US$3.7 million equivalent
of the proceeds of the IDA credit to LNDC at an
interest rate of 6.0 percent per annum and LNDC's
repayment schedule would conform substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules for its
subloans and the fixed repayment schedules for its
investments.
LNDC would onlend the proceeds of the credit at an
interest rate of at least 11 percent per annum for
a period of up to 15 years, or 20 years for tourism
projects. The exchange risk on this portion would
be borne by the Government at a fee of 1 percent per
annum to be charged to LNDC's sub-borrowers.
Training        : The remainder of the credit would be passed on to LNDC
as grants to finance two training programs of $150,000
each; one for LNDC staff, the other for Basotho workers
in new LNDC-supported enterprises.
Purpose         : The Credit would assist in financing:  (i)  LNDC's
foreign exchange requirements for its development
finance operations through June, 1982 (US$3.7 million);
(ii) the training of about six projects and accounting
officers, who would be sent abroad for courses in
project evaluation and management, accounting and
financial management (US$150,000); and (iii) training
for skilled and semi-skilled Basotho technicians and
workers in new projects supported by LNDC (US$150,000).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financial Statements
Year ending March 31              1980       1981       1982     1983      1984
------(in M '000)…-------------…
LNDC
Project Commitments
Loans                          980      1,596     1,915    2,248    2,758
Equity                       1,015      1,135        790      546       514
Factory Buildings              770      1,254     1,505    1,806    2,167
Guarantees                     700        580       400       400       400
Total                  3,465      4,565      4,610    5,000    5,839
Projected Income Statements:
Total Revenue                     1,005      1,332      1,711.   2,139    2,663
Financial and Administrative
Expenses                          877      1,101      1,363    1,626    1,929
Provisions                           94        130        123       513      734
Net Income                            34       101        225       384      589
As % of Average Net Worth    0.6          1.4        2.7      4.0       5.5
Project Balance Sheets
Net Current Assets                   50         50         50        50       50
Portfolio (net)                   3,179      5,358      7,252    9,076   11,028
Fixed and other Assets            5,815      7,255      8,658   10,342   12,362
Total Assets                 9,044    12,663    15,960   19,468   23,440
Long-term debt                    2,650      4,968      7,140    9,264   12,147
Equity                            6,394      7,695      8,820   10,203   11,293
Total Liabilities            9,044    12,663    15,960   19,468   23,440
and Equity
Debt/Equity Ratio                 0.5:1      0.8:1      1.0:1    1.1:1   1.2:1



- iii -
Final Date for Sub-Project
Submissions              : June 30, 1982
Closing Date               : December 31, 1984
Free Limit                 : US$150,000 for individual sub-project;
US$1.0 million aggregate limit
Debt Covenants             : LNDC: Maximum debt/equity ratio - 3:1
Estimated Disbursements   : Year Ending June 30          1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual (US$ million       1.04   1.44   1.16   0.36
Cumulative (US$ million) 1.04   2.48   3.64   4.00
Procurement                : Through normal commercial channels
Appraisal Report           : Report No. 2670-LSO, dated January 15, 1980



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO FOR THE
SECOND LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Lesotho for the equivalent of US$4.0
million on standard IDA terms for the Second Lesotho National Development
Corporation Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Lesotho" (No. 2251-LSO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in February
1979. Transport and education sector memoranda were issued in January and
March 1979. A report (No. 1688-EA) which examined migration in Southern
Africa, and in particular, the migrant labor situation in Lesotho, was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors in February 1978. Country data are shown
in Annex 1.
3.        Lesotho is one of the UN-designated "least developed" countries.
GNP per capita in 1978 is estimated at US$280. 1/ The country is surrounded
by the Republic of South Africa (RSA); it is mountainous, soil erosion is
extensive, and less than 15 percent of its land area is suitable for crop
cultivation. Population pressure on land resources is intense. In 1979, the
population was estimated at 1.3 million, growing at 2.3 percent a year. About
nine percent of Lesotho's population lived in towns in 1979, and urban growth
stood at 4.8 percent a year.
4.        The economy is dominated by subsistence agriculture and the temporary
migration of about half the male labor force to the South African mines.
Subsistence agriculture and livestock rearing are the main economic activities
of about 85 percent of the resident population and account for about 36
percent of domestic product. The economy is also characterized by its depend-
ence on South Africa, which accounts for about 90 percent of Lesotho's mer-
chandise trade and tourist traffic. Worker's remittances equalled about 55
percent of domestic product in 1977/78 and customs receipts from the Southern
Africa Customs Union 2/ were almost 60 percent of Government revenues. The
1/   GDP per capita in 1978 was about US$165.  GNP substantially exceeds GDP
because of migrant workers' remittances.
2/   The Southern Africa Customs Union was established in 1910 (and revised
in 1969 and 1976) among Botswana, Lestoho, South Africa and Swaziland.
The Agreement provides for free movement of goods among member countries
and for revenue-sharing from a common pool of customs, excise and sales
duties.



country's integration with the South African economy has also been bolstered
by its membership in the Rand Monetary Area and by the country's use of the
South African Rand as legal tender.
5.        While Lesotho's lack of natural resources is a majcr constraint to
its development, its unique migrant labor situation remains the major force in
shaping the economy. About 165,000 Basotho are estimated to be employed as
migrant workers in South Africa; about 40,000 have found wage employment in
the domestic economy. There are few opportunities for domestic earnings in
Lesotho comparable to those in the South African mines, and rapidly rising
mine wages in recent years have spurred even greater migration. Between 1970
and 1977, the number of Basotho workers in the mines increased steadily except
for a brief period in 1974 when 15,000 workers unexpectedly returned to
Lesotho.
6.        Migration has provided substantial remittances that have become
critical to maintaining the living standards of much of the population; recent
studies have shown that crop production accounts for less than 20 percent of
rural household income. The continuing absence of much of the male population
has led to a shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower and a decline in
agricultural production. The economy's dependence on remittances has also
left it vulnerable to developments over which the Government has no control.
Increasing mine mechanization and RSA policies encouraging the hiring of South
African blacks have led to a decrease slnce early 1978 in the number of
Basotho employed. It is thought likely that this decline will continue,
placing still more pressure on the Government to create jobs. While agri-
culture would seem the obvious sector for job creation, its short-term
absorptive capacity is low and ongoing rural development projects have proven
difficult.
7.        This has been recognized in the Second National Deveelopment Plan
(1975-80), which focusses, in addition to agriculture, on (i) improving
infrastructure, particularly roads and communications between the mountains
and more-developed lowlands; (ii) reforming education to meet developmental
needs; (iii) expanding industry by strengthening the Lesotho National
Development Corporation, the main channel for new investment, and (iv) reduc-
ing economic dependence on South Africa. The Government has also, under the
1977 Second Highway Project, established an experimental labor-intensive
construction unit that has been successful in creating public works jobs. The
Plan is well directed to Lesotho's main development problems, and its stress
on agriculture, infrastructure and education is appropriate for a country
still at a very early stage of development. This strategy will be continued
under the Third (1980-85) Plan, now in draft form; the urgent need, however,
to raise productivity in agriculture and, in particular, to promote industrial
strategies that favor labor intensive investments, is stressed throughout the
Plan document and has induced Government to reassess and reorient its policies
in the crucial sectors of agriculture and industry.
8.        Recent economic growth has been satisfactory, despites sharp fluc-
tuations in agricultural output mainly because of unfavorable weather. During
1974-1978 output tripled in the Government and tourism sectors,, and increased
tenfold in construction; GDP is estimated to have increased about seven to



- 3 -
eight percent a year in real terms. The expenditure pattern highlights the
country's severe external dependence; the average level of consumption
exceeded domestic product by about 75 percent, a situation made possible by
substantial remittances (para. 4). Total investment in 1977/78 was 30 percent
of GDP, compared to 15 percent in 1974/75, reflecting a sustained rise in
Government construction activity, and private investment in diamond mining.
9.        Government revenue stagnated between 1974/75-1976/77 at about M 30
million, as customs receipts declined, but jumped to M 52 million in 1977/78
as these more than doubled after a 1976 revision of the revenue-sharing
formula under the customs agreement. Over the same period, recurrent expend-
itures increased from M 19 million to M 40 million, a nominal 28 percent a
year, as a result of: (i) revisions of public service wages and salaries in
1975 and 1977 partly to stem the outflow of skilled workers to South Africa;
(ii) continuing expansion of the Government administration; and (iii) the
growing recurrent costs of an expanding development program. In 1977/78,
receipts exceeded recurrent expenditures by M 20 million, reflecting increased
customs receipts and external grants. In 1977/78 capital expenditure was four
times the 1974/75 level because of improved implementation capacity stemming
from a gradual buildup of skilled manpower and substantial technical assistance.
10.       Lesotho's balance of payments shows a chronic imbalance in merchan-
dise trade funded largely by remittances and official transfers. Between 1975
and 1978, merchandise imports increased from M 123 million to M 210 million;
while exports rose from M 10 million to M 30 million. The start of diamond
exports with M 17 million in 1978 accounts for the sharp increase in export
receipts; recorded receipts from Lesotho's traditional export commodities,
wool and mohair, stagnated. On the services account, net earnings of migrants
in 1977 were almost 2.5 times the 1974 level, mainly as a result of higher
mine wages, while net transfers doubled with the surge in customs receipts.
The overall balance of payments showed small surpluses in 1977 and 1978,
mainly reflecting the Government's improved budgetary situation. Gross
official reserves amounted to M 11.2 million in December 1978, equivalent to
about two weeks of 1978 imports. However, this only partly reflects the
country's foreign reserve position, given the integration of the monetary
system with that of South Africa, and the substantial under-recording of
external transactions. The Government established later in 1979 a Monetary
Authority to issue a new domestic currency, the maloti, which would be at par
with, circulate jointly with, and be 100 percent backed by, the rand.
11.       Until 1975, the United Kingdom was the major aid source; during the
last few years a growing number of bilateral and multilateral agencies have
provided grants or concessionary credits for projects. At the end of 1978,
Lesotho's external debt (disbursed and outstanding) was estimated at US$30
million: debt service payments during 1978 were US$1.4 million, about 3
percent of export earnings or 1.7 percent of recurrent revenue (given Lesotho's
special monetary arrangements with South Africa relating debt service payments
to recurrent revenue rather than to foreign exchange earnings is a more
meaningful concept of its debt service capacity).



12.       Ie-otol -tnc<        1 economic outlook will be largely influenced by
its continuing economic arrangement with South Africa, particularly its
membership in the customs unions and the level of migration. These uncertain-
ties, Lesotho's delicate geopolitical situation, and scarcity of natural
resources underlie the difficult task of development. While current revenue
will continue to depend on tl'e. -ustoms union, the country's growing absorptive
capacity and the recurrent budgetary demands of an expanding public investment
program call for a more rapid increase in revenue and a greater diversifica-
tion of revenue sources. Although the Government is examining ways to in-
crease internal revenue following an IMF review of the fiscal system, these
objectives can only be realized in the long term, given Lesotho's narrow
tax base. In the meantime, donor agencies should consider financing in most
projects, not only all foreign costs, but also a substantial part of local
costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       Bank Group operations in Lesotho, which began in 1966, total US$50.2
million for nine credits and one IFC investment. The credits have helped
finance: (i) two agricultural projects to improve inputs and services to
traditional farmers; (ii) two education projects to expand vocational, tech-
nical and commercial training capability and increase rural secondary edu-
cation; (iii) three road projects to upgrade Lesotho's major road network,
improve maintenance and support a labor-intensive construction unit; (iv) the
Lesotho National Development Corporation and BEDCO; and (v) a water supply
project to provide service in seven provincial towns. As of November 30, 1979,
IDA credits disbursed amounted to about US$19 million, about 62 percent of
Lesotho's total external debt, disbursed and outstanding; servicing of IDA
credits is estimated at about 12 percent of debt service during 1978. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the IFC investment and
notes on ;he execution of the ongoing projects. The country's capacity for
project implementation has improved considerably over the past few years and
the quality of implementation of Bank Group assisted projects overall is
satisfactory. In May 1979, the Bank agreed to act as executing agent for a
US$1.37 million UNDP Technical Assistance project that focuses on strengthen-
ing the Government's planning capability.
14.       Future operations will continue to support the Government's develop-
ment objectives (para. 8). Preliminary discussions have been held on a
possible third rural development project, which may focus on land use, live-
stock and/or soil conservation. The Bank Group also expects to continue its
assistance to the education and urban sectors.



- 5 -
PART III - INDUSTRY AND FINANCE
Industry
15.       The industrial sector, although small and still at an early stage of
development, is one of the fastest growing in Lesotho.  Manufacturing, mining
and quarrying and building and construction rose from 5.4 percent of GDP in
1973/74 to 14.5 percent in 1977/78. Industrial exports led mainly by gold
exports, have also expanded steadily from 20 percent of total exports in 1973
to 55 percent in 1977. Industrial employment, however, remains low; in 1977,
modern industrial activities employed just over 1 percent of the labor force.
Employment in modern manufacturing, concentrated in the urban centers of Maseru
and Maputsoe, was estimated at 3,600 in 1977, employment in handicraft and
informal activities at 23,000.
16.       Growth has been concentrated in building and construction, where
output expanded more than 10 fold between 1974 and 1978, and quarrying and
mining which tripled during the five years. In contrast, manufacturing value
added declined during the same period from M 3.2 million to M 2.6 million.
This was largely because new enterprises met competition from more experienced
manufacturers in the RSA, shortages of raw materials, turnover of expatriate
management staff, on whom there is considerable reliance, and shortages of
Basotho supervisors and skilled workers.
17.       Tourism in Lesotho has grown from fewer than 5,000 visitors in 1969
to 175,000 --90 percent from RSA-- in 1977, when it accounted for 6 percent of
GDP. Direct employment in tourism, however, was only about 800 in 1977/78.
The Lesotho National Tourist Office, a wholly owned LNDC subsidiary, handles
planning and promotion, and, while gambling in Maseru has been the major
attraction, the Government intends to diversify tourism attractions.
18.       Commercial activities have remained at about 15 percent of GDP while
increasing in absolute terms. Services employed about 14,000 in 1977, 3.5% of
domestic employment. Trade, except for a few large operations belonging to
chains from the RSA, consists mostly of small and medium establishments.
Institutional Framework and Policies
19.       Responsibility for industrial development policy and planning rests
primarily with the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Commerce, which supervises
and coordinates the activities of the Lesotho National Development Corporation
(LNDC), and the Basotho Enterprise Development Corporation (BEDCO). Other
institutions include the Lerotholi Technical Institute, which provides facil-
ities for training craftsmen, and the Institute of Development Management,
which offers training and development, personnel, financial and training
management.
20.       Recognizing its institutional limitations, the Government emphasizes
industrial development through local and foreign-sponsored private enterprise.
Its major policy instrument is a set of fiscal incentives, primarily capital



-6-
allowances administered by a Pioneer Industries Board. There are also allow-
ances for some training wage, utility and transportation costs. The Board has
limited evaluation capability and normally makes decisions on incentives on a
case by case basis. While an assessment of the effectiveness of the incen-
tives scheme has yet to be undertaken, it appears biased in favor of rela-
tively capital intensive investments not suitable to Lesotho's circumstances.
Moreover, the training and wage allowances have not provided adequate induce-
ment for employing and training Basotho. The proposed project: would offer an
additional incentive in the form of grants to new enterprises for training
Basotho workers (paras. 60 and 61). The Government, under its draft Third
National Development Plan (1980-85), intends to step up training and increase
its emphasis on more labor-intensive inclustrial and commercial development.
Constraints
21.       Industrial development will continue to be hampered by Lesotho's
lack of natural resources, competition from RSA and transport problems. These
constraints are aggravated by a weak institutional framework, scarcity of
entrepreneurs with the capital to undertake even small and medium scale
projects and a shortage of managers, supervisors and skilled technicians
needed for larger-scale enterprises. In this context, the further strengthen-
ing of LNDC, Lesotho's principal industrial development institution, assumes
particular importance.
Prospects
22.       Prospects in mining and construction appear promising.  The draft
Third Plan stresses the importance of industry in diversifying the economy and
expanding employment, and recognizes the need to strengthen institutions,
expand the supply of managers and skilled technicians, improve transportation
and input supplies and exploit preferential access to foreign markets. The
draft Plan also reaffirms the role LNDC and BEDCO are expected to play in
attracting foreign investment and encouraging local entrepeneurs.
The Financial Sector
23.       Lesotho has four commercial banks and four specialized financial
institutions (para. 26), and an agricultural development bank began operations
at the end of 1979.
24.       In the absence of a central bank, the Commissioner of Financial
Institutions has regulated the banks and other financial institutions though
his powers have been limited by Lesotho's membership in the Rand Monetary
Area, use of the South African Rand, and open access to foreign exchange
through the South African Reserve Bank; these have also made Lesotho highly
dependent upon the monetary and credit policies set by the Reserve Bank.
Lesotho established its own currency, the Maloti, and a Monetary Authority
(para. 10) in later 1979, which should increase its independence in monetary
matters; the free system of foreign exchange transactions and fund movements
is expected, however, to be retained.



- 7 -
25.       The specialized financial institutions are:  (i) LNDC, which con-
centrates on term finance and medium and large scale industrial, tourism and
commercial projects and the provision of industrial buildings; (ii) BEDC0,
which provides term finance to small scale enterprises; (iii) the Building
Finance Corporation (BFC) which lends for residential housing; and (iv) the
Lesotho National Insurance Company (LNIC) which provides fire, casualty, motor
and marine insurance and plans to offer life policies in the future.
26.       While resource mobilization by these institutions has been limited,
the commercial banks have attracted considerable savings. However, primarily
due to a paucity of lending options, they have been less successful in allo-
cating these resources domestically, and have consistently maintained liquidity
well above required levels. Surplus funds have been invested in the RSA,
where interest rates are slightly higher. There is a need to develop more
options for commercial bank lending in Lesotho and strengthen the specialized
financial institutions so that they can tap the money market for long term
investments.
27.       As Lesotho has little independence in setting interest rates, they
conform broadly to those in the RSA. Lending rates range from 10.50 to 13.50
percent, with 12 percent being most common. Commercial bank savings and time
deposits rates range from 3.5 to 7.5 percent. Prices also closely follow
those in South Africa; they rose about 11 percent in 1976, 16 percent in 1977,
12 percent in 1978 and about 11 percent in 1979. Most lending rates in
Lesotho have thus been marginally positive in real terms since 1978 and should
continue to be so at projected prices increases estimated at about 11 percent
through 1982.
Bank Group Experience
28.       IDA's only involvement in industry has been through a line of credit
of US$2.5 million to LNDC, of which US$0.3 million was allocated to BEDCO.
LNDC has made significant improvements in management, organization, staffing,
policies, procedures, portfolio and its financial condition. As of January
15, 1980, LNDC had financed from this line of credit ten subprojects for a
total of US$1.6 million and median and mean investment costs per job of
US$8,050 and US$18,206; five were export oriented. BEDCO's project implemen-
tation was initially slow, primarily due to management problems; a new manage-
ment team has begun a program of consolidation and rehabilitation and opera-
tions are now increasing. IFC has participaied in a stone crushing project with
LNDC for US$300,000.
29.       As BEDCO seems to have sufficient resources for the medium term, no
new financial assistance is proposed, although the Association's working
relationship will continue through the completion of the first credit. BEDCO
is also expected to play an important role in employment generation under a
forthcoming proposed IDA-financed urban development project. IDA is also
assisting the Government in formulating an industrial development strategy
through its association with LNDC and BEDCO.



iO.       The proposed project comprises:  (a) a line of credit of
US$3.7 million to LNDC to finance about 35 percent of its investments from
April 1980 through March 1982 .( .) US$150,000 for training LNDC staff abroad
in project management and evaluation, accountancy and financial management;
and (c) an experimental fund within LNDC of US$150,000 for training skilled
and semi-skilled workers at new enterprises establishing in Lesotho. The
project was prepared by LNDC and appraised in April/May 1979. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 2670-LSO, dated Janauary 15, 1980 on the project is being
distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in November,
1979 and the Lesotho Delegation was led by Mr. A. M. Monyake, Permanent
Secretary of Finance. A credit and project summary is at the front of this
report, and a supplementary Project Data Sheet is in Annex III.
LNDC's History, Ownership and Resources
31.       LNDC is a Government corporation set up in 1967 to promote and
finance non-agricultural projects in Lesotho. In 1973, after LNDC had under-
taken 15 projects and set up good internal operating procedures, its Managing
Director departed and the Managing Director of the Lesotho Bank was assigned
the responsibility in addition to his normal duties. In 1975, a temporary
Managing Director was recruited for LNDC and in 1976 a full-time Managing
Director was provided by CIDA. The first Basotho Managing Director took over
in 1977. This uncertainty in management largely offset LNDC's early progress:
good staff could not be recruited and retained; the organization structure
became ineffective and internal procedures deteriorated; there was inadequate
follow-up on existing investments and the few new projects did not receive
adequate evaluation. By the time the Association first appraised LNDC in
1976, it was a weak institution, requiring considerable technical, as well as
financial assistance. LNDC has made great progress in resolvinig its internal
problems and is a stronger institution.
32.       LNDC's authorized capital is M 10 million.  The Lesotho Government
is the sole shareholder, with M 4 million of issued and fully paid-up capital.
It has also provided LNDC with M 2.2 million in grants and long term loans.
Other resources are M 1.9 million equivalent provided by the Association under
the first credit and commercial loans totalling M 0.4 million from Barclays
Bank of Lesotho, the Lesotho Bank and the Commonwealth Development Corporation.
Objectives and Role
33.       LNDC was set up "to initiate, promote and facilitate the development
of manufacturing and processing industries, mining and commerce in a manner
calculated to raise the level of income and employment in Lesotho." It is the
principal institution for developing Lesotho's modern non-agricultural sector
and was given wide powers in project promotion and financing.
34.       LNDC identifies projects, and when unable to find investors, can
take the initiative in establishing enterprises.  It is the principal provider
of equity and term finance for medium and large scale industrial and tourism



- 9-
projects. It provides serviced sites and buildings for industrial and commer-
cial uses. LNDC also assists Government in planning and policy formulation in
the industrial and tourism sectors. This broad role is appropriate; Lesotho's
shortage of experienced managers argues against a proliferation of institu-
tions and for combining functions that might be divided in other countries.
Management, Organization and Staff
35.       LNDC is directed by a seven member board chaired by the Prime
Minister. Other members are the Minister of Industries, Tourism and Commerce
(deputy chairman); the Minister of Finance and Planning; the Regional Con-
troller for Southern Africa of the Commonwealth Development Corporation; a
prominent local businessman; a Swiss businessman, and its Managing Director.
36.       The Managing Director, responsible to the Board for day-to-day
management, is a local economist who joined LNDC in 1975 as Deputy Managing
Director after serving as director of Economic Planning in Government. He is
assisted by a team of experts in project development, promotion and appraisal,
financial planning and control and portfolio management provided under Irish
Aid. Together, they provide LNDC with able leadership.
37.       LNDC has four departments and an office of internal audit reporting
directly to the Managing Director. The new Industries Department, headed by
the leader of the Irish team, is responsible for investment promotion and
project development and appraisal. The Operations Department is responsible
for control of LNDC's subsidiary companies and associated companies in which
it is the major shareholder. It sets operational targets for these companies
and monitors their performance. The Accounts Department is responsible for
financial planning and control, disbursements, financial reporting, and
assisting subsidiaries in preparing their accounts. The Administration
Department is responsible for personnel, administration, training and legal
issues. This organization structure, a streamlining of earlier, more complex,
structures, is appropriate and functions efficiently.
38.       LNDC relies extensively on expatriate professional staff provided
mainly under bilateral and multilateral aid. As of March 31, 1979, there were
14 expatriates among its professional staff of 38. They have been assigned
Basotho counterparts, mostly recent graduates lacking in specialized training
and experience. Recognizing that its strength as an institution will depend
on a trained and experienced cadre of Basotho professionals, LNDC has a
development program to provide staff with training and opportunities to
develop their expertise. The Association would support this program through
the proposed project (para. 58).



- 10 -
Operating Policies and Procedures
39.       Investment Policies.  LNDC's investment policies are contained in a
policy statement prepared with IDA assistance, and adopted by its Board in
1976. Under its provisions LNDC assists enterprises with loans, equity
investments, guarantees, serviced sites and factory buildings, subject to a
limitation of 20 percent of its net worth or 60 percent of each project's
capital costs in total assistance (including guarantees and buildings). LNDC
will limit its equity investments to its net worth and will not provide more
than 10 percent of its net worth as equity investment in a single enterprise.
It will not normally finance regular working capital requirements and will not
refinance projects.  In addition, it will avoid managing its investments,
unless necessary to protect its interests. It will not incur foreign exchange
risks and and will limit debt, including guarantees, to three times its net worth.
Finally, it will seek to revolve its funds by selling off its investments when
it can earn a reasonable return.
40.       Interest Rate and Other Charges.  At present LNDC charges a minimum
interest rate of 12 percent a year on all loans; on those out of the IDA
credit it also charges a yearly fee of 1 percent on behalf of Government for
the latter's assumption of the foreign exchange risk, for an effective rate of
13 percent. However, with the gradual decline in interest rates in the Rand
Monetary Area since mid-1978, LNDC's lending rates have become among the
highest in the country and are proving constraining.
41.       To permit LNDC's interest rates to become more competitive, it was
agreed that LNDC's minimum onlending rate for funds provided from the proposed
IDA credit would be 11 percent (Section 2.03(c)(i) of the Project
Agreement). The arrangements regarding the foreign exchange risk would also
be retained, bringing the cost of IDA funds to 12.0 percent. As inflation in
Lesotho is projected at about 11 percent through 1982, the proposed rate is
expected to be positive in real terms, and yield an acceptable lending spread.
Since LNDC needs flexible interest rate policies to remain competitive, the
Association and LNDC will conduct periodic reviews of the lending rate, the
first of which will be held six months after the signing of the proposed
Credit.
42.       LNDC charges a fee of 2 percent per year on guarantees, which is
adequate, and a rent of 15 percent on development and building costs for its
land and factory building leasing operations. This rate is economic, as it
provides for the recovery of capital invested within a reasonable time, covers
the cost of capital, maintenance, insurance and building taxes, and provides a
margin of operating profit to LNDC after appropriate depreciation allowances.
Rents are reviewed and adjusted at fivei year intervals according to the
domestic building cost index.
43.       Identification and Procedures.  LNDC is establishing a systematic
approach to investment promotion. This involves research to identify projects
suitable for Lesotho and potential investors and intensive promotion through



- 11 -
direct contracts, seminars and sponsored visits. LNDC's procedures have
improved significantly, and comprehensive appraisals are now undertaken. For
projects requiring factory leases, a streamlined appraisal procedure agreed
with the Association is used. LNDC has been able to exercise supervision over
the projects it manages, but follow-up has tended to be unsystematic for other
projects. LNDC is extending its operational and financial reporting require-
ments to alleviate this weakness.
Past Operations and Portfolio
44.       As of April, 1979, LNDC has approved M 13.9 million in financial
assistance to projects.  Of this, M 4.1 million was loans, M 3.0 million
equity investments, M 5.4 million for factory buildings and developed sites,
and M 1.4 million guarantees for loans. Annual approvals have risen from M
2.2 million in 1977 to M 4.8 million in 1979. Because of its dual role as a
promoter and financier of projects, LNDC's operations have involved a fairly
large proportion of equity investments, some as majority or wholly owned
positions in subsidiaries, and extensive guarantees for some of these subsi-
diaries. The land tenure laws of Lesotho precluding the granting of land
title to users, investors have had to rely on Government institutions for
access to land, thus creating a need for LNDC to invest substantially in
developed sites and factory buildings. This function can, however, be expected
to slowly decline as a new Land Act allowing corporations to lease land comes
into effect.
45.       Of the 13 projects approved in FY1979, six were new, three were
expansions and four were restructurings; two involved handicrafts production
and marketing, three were commercial wholesale activities and eight were
manufacturing activities ranging from stone crushing and brick making to
candle making and furniture manufacture; the loans ranged from M 15,000
to M 600,000, equity investments from M 5,000 to M 550,000, factory buildings
from M 90,000 to M 282,000; guarantees from M 9,000 to M 250,000, and the
total project costs from M 40,000 to M 1.7 million.
46.       As of December 31, 1978, LNDC had a portfolio of M 6.5 million
outstanding in 45 projects, about 40 percent of which had received at least
two types of financial assistance from LNDC. LNDC's total exposure per
project ranges from a M 20 equity investment in a hotel holding company to
M 1.0 million in a supermarket chain. Five projects out of the 45 had more
than M 0.5 million invested in them, and these accounted for 60 percent of the
portfolio, indicating substantial exposure in a few projects. In all five
cases, however, LNDC is not exposed to excessive risks because the companies
are operating profitably. If these five projects and six other projects in
which LNDC's total commitment was less than M 10,000 were excluded, the
average financial commitment per project was M 77,000 for 34 projects, indi-
cating a good spread of exposure in the rest of the portfolio. The overall
quality of the portfolio has improved significantly. Compared to 1976, when
almost all the companies LNDC had assisted were in financial difficulty, in
December 1978 80 percent of the portfolio was outstanding in profitable
projects.  Five out of sixteen loans, accounting for only 15 per-ent of the



1.
loan portfolio were a!£ected by arrears of more than three months on principal
and interest; four out of 23 projects were in rental arrears for more than
three months, representing 10 percent o' the value of the building portfolio.
47.       Fourteen of LNDC's 45 projects were at one time majority or wholly-
owned subsidiaries managed 7I ,NDC and 13 were associated companies, some of
which it also managed. One of the pr:incipal concerns of the Association when
the first credit was appraised was the poor financial performance of these
subsidiaries and associated companies, as the management burden was too much
for LNDC. As the companies required specialized management skills and commer-
cial knowledge not readily available within Lesotho, expatriate managers, who
were difficult to control, were extensively utilized. The control problem was
exacerbated by the absence of a management information system. The result was
a record of poor financial performance, even though most of these projects
were based on sound business ideas. T'he holdings were also a financial drain
on LNDC as their performance required continuing injections of loans, guarantees
and equity. In addition to recommending measures to alleviate the management
and control problems, the Association reached an understanding with LNDC
and Government that progressive divestiture would be a policy of LNDC, and
that progress in this area would be reviewed periodically with the Association.
48.       LNDC has made reasonable progress in divestiture and in improving
the performance of the equity holdings. Five subsidiaries have been divested,
50 percent of the shareholding in another has been sold, and three associated
companies have been sold off. The financial performance of the others has
improved significantly; the 10 subsidiaries in operation in both 1976 and
1979, contributed M 27,725 to LNDC's net income in 1979 compared to a loss of
M 218,547 in 1976. The Association, LNDC and the Government reaffirmed their
understanding on divestiture during negotiations.
Financial and Economic Performance
49.       Although LNDC has operated at a loss since 1976, net losses have
dropped from an average 34 percent of total assets in 1976 and 1977, to an
average of 4 percent in 1978 and 1979. The prime cause of these losses,
especially in 1976 and 1977, was the poor quality of the portfolio and the
need for substantial provisions and writeoffs agginst it; administrative
expense increases due to increased investment promotion and staff training had
also not been offset by increases in income because of the small portfolio
base and a cessation of non-operational income from sugar levies and mining
royalties.
50.       The four years of losses have not drastically affected LNDC's
financial situation because of financial support from the Government. The
main adverse effect was the emergence of a liquidity problem in 1977. The
current ratio dropped from 1.3 at end FY 1976 to 0.3 at end FY 1976. It has
improved gradually since then, and by end FY 1979, was above the minimum



- 13 -
acceptable level of 1.0. The ratio on the group financial situation show a
similar trend. The debt-equity ratios on both corporation and group basis,
and with or without outstanding guarantees considered as debt, were substan-
tially below the 3:1 limit agreed with IDA under the first credit. Provisions
against the portfolio have been adequate since a Provisions policy was adopted
in 1976. It reached a high of 89 percent of the portfolio in 1977 when the
portfolio was in its worst situation, but had been written down to 46 percent
as of the end of FY 1979 because of significant portfolio improvements.
51.       LNDC has made a significant contribution to the Lesotho economy.
A June 1978 survey of its subsidiaries and associated companies showed that
they employed a total of 4,043 Basotho. Of this, 2,235 were employed in
manufacturing activities (60 percent of total employment in the sector), 501
in service activities, 586 in construction activities, and 721 in tourism.
LNDC-supported companies on which data has been collected had an average value
added of 50 percent of inputs and exported about 55 percent of the value of
their output in 1978. Overall, it is estimated that LNDC assisted projects
account for about 80-90 percent of the value of manufactured exports. LNDC's
impact on the economy of Lesotho goes beyond what can be demonstrated with the
limited data, and beyond the operational results of the projects it has
assisted. It has promoted Lesotho as an investment and tourist area; it has
developed a modern handicrafts industry of mohair weaving, ceramics and
jewelery making. It has contributed significantly to planning and.policy
formulation in industry, commerce and tourism. Finally, it has mobilized
resources from the domestic banking system through its guarantee operations.
Prospects
52.       Strategy, Pipeline and Operations.  LNDC plans to concentrate on
promoting Lesotho as an investment area; improving the quality of its port-
folio, diversifying its sources of long term resources, and developing
its Basotho professional staff. This is a good strategy which, if success-
fully implemented, would result in a very strong institution.
53.       The planned investment promotion effort would build up a good
pipeline of projects over the next three to five years. Its pipeline as of
May 1979, consisted of nine projects expected to be approved within 12 months.
These included proposals for fruit and vegetable processing, paint manufacture,
furniture making, a brewery, and commercial activities such as supermarkets
and wholesale establishments. With this pipeline in mind, LNDC projects a
marginal increase in the level of its investment approvals in 1980 and a
decline in 1981. As the investment promotion effort takes effect however,
annual approvals are expected to show growth in real terms over 1982-1984.  It
is expected that the bulk of the projected approvals of M 25.4 million over
the five-year period would be for manufacturing activities.
54.       Resource Requirement.  As of March 31, 1979, LNDC had M 1.1 million
of foreign exchange for commitment, but was technically overcommitted in local
funds by M 1.4 million, pending the receipt of resources from Government.



- 14 
Commitments in its FY 1980 would be financed by the balance oE the first IDA
credit and additional equity or loans from Government. Between April 1980 and
March 1982, LNDC is projected to commit M 8.2 million with a M 6.6 million
foreign cost component. LNDC is planniag to finance these commitments with
the proposed second IDA credit (M 3.2 million), internally generated resources
of M 0.9 mill1on, and new equity and loans from Government, and possibly from
the European Investment Bank, African Development Bank, and the European
Development Fund.
55.       Financial Performance. LNDC is projected to start operating profitably
again in 1980, as administrative expenses are expected to be more tightly
controlled and the improved situation of the portfolio will reduce the need
for massive provisions against possible losses. Whilst a projected increase
in borrowings will lead to an increase in financial expenses, these are
projected to remain well below 4 percent of average total assets because of the
low debt base. Despite increased borrowings, LNDC's long term debt/equity
ratio will only increase to 1.2:1 by FY 1984, well below the limit of 3:1
agreed with IDA. This low level is both due to the increase in paid-in
capital and the very low level of borrowings in previous years. With prudent
financial management and increased internal cash generation, its liquidity
position is expected to remain at a satisfactory level over the period. While
the significant increase in borrowings will result in tight debt servicing
coverage ratios, LNDC is expected to service its debts on time.
Proposed Credit
56.       The Government would relend US$307 million of the proposed credit to
LNDC to finance equity investments in and loans for subprojects, including
initial working capital, and LNDC factory buildings to be leased by subprojects.
57.       The line of credit would be on the following terms and conditions:
(i) Relending Rates, Foreign Exchange Risk and Other Charges:
The credit would be onlent by Government to LNDC at 6 percent
per annum (Section 3.02(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). LNDC would
onlend for subloans at a minimum of 11 percent per annum (Section 2.03(c)(i)
of the Project Agreement) providing an adequate lending spread of 5 percent.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by Government, which would charge
LNDC a fee of 1 percent per annum for this service (Section 3.02(d) of the
Development Credit Agreement). LNDC would pass this fee (Section 2.03(c)(ii)
of the Project Agreement) to sub-borrowers, bringing the minimum lending rate
of the credit to 12 percent. Where LNDC utilized portions of the credit for
equity investments and factory buildings, it would bear the 1 percent risk fee
itself. Rental charges on factory buildings financed out of the proceeds of
this credit for lease by LNDC would be at a minimum of 15 percent per annum on
the cost of such buildings (Section 2.03(c)(iv) of the Project Agreement)
with LNDC's normal provisions for periodic adjustment. This rate is in line
with prevailing commercial practice in Lesotho and is considered an economic
rent.



- 15 -
(ii) Free Limit:
The free limit on individual subloans would be US$150,000 and the
aggregate free limit US$1.0 million (Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Proposals to finance equity investments and factory buildings from the credit
would, however, require the prior approval of the Association. These free
limit subloans would permit the Association to review projects receiving about
70 percent of the credit.
(iii) Other Limits:
To ensure that LNDC did not utilize the credit for a few large
projects with greater financial risks, assurances have been obtained that
LNDC would not invest more than $600,000 in any single project. This would
be about 15 percent of the total amount of the credit, and about 50 percent
of the maximum financial commitment LNDC can presently make per project
under its investment policy guidelines. In addition, the Association has
reached an understanding under a supplementary letter with LNDC not to
utilize more than US$1.5 million (about 40 percent) of the credit for
equity investments and factory buildings.
(iv) Amortization Schedule:
In conformity with the normal IDA policy for lending to development
finance companies, the line of credit would have a flexible amortization
schedule conforming substantially with the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of the subloans, and the amortization schedules to be proposed by
LNDC for funds utilized for equity investments and factory buildings. As under
the first credit, the individual amortization schedules would be subject to a
maximum of 20 years for tourism projects and 15 years for all other projects,
including appropriate grace periods which are expected not to exceed five
years.
(v) Commitment Period and Fee:
The credit would be available for commitment by LNDC up to June 30,
1982. Because of LNDC's weak financial condition, it is not recommended that
Government charge LNDC any commitment fees for this credit.
(vi) Debt/Equity Limitations:
The consolidated long term debt to equity ratio of LNDC would be
maintained at the 3:1 level agreed with IDA under the first credit (Section
3.04 of the Project Agreement), for this second credit. Because of the
extensive guarantee operations of LNDC, and to ensure that it does not over
extend itself in this area, outstanding guarantees would continue to be
considered as debt for the purposes of this covenant. As capital reserves
from revaluation of factory buildings are unlikely to be realized in cash
because the land tenure laws of Lesotho preclude their sale, LNDC's accumulated
capital reserves would not be considered part of its equity for purposes of
this covenant.



- 16 -
Training of LNDC Staff
58.       This US$150,000 project component would finance the external training
of LNDC's staff in project evaluation and management, accountancy and financial
management. It would enable LNDC to send about six projects and accounting
officers for training in project evaluation management and accroxitancy. Since
there are no such specialized courses offered in Lesotho, LNDC would need to
send the trainees abroad. It is envisaged that all trainees would have worked
in LNDC at least a year before being sent out to ensure that their training
needs were well assessed, and that they were reasonably familiar with LNDC's
operations. The funds under this component would finance the costs of tuition,
training materials and books, travel to and from the place of study, and
subsistence costs at the place of study.
59.       The following terms and conditions would apply to the utilization of
these funds:
(i) The funds would be passed on from Government to LNDC as a grant
(Section 3.02(e)(i) of the Development Credit Agreement). LNDC is not yet
profitable and cannot bear such costs directly.
(ii) To ensure that the specific training programs selected for the
trainees are relevant and suitable to LNDCGs needs, the Association would
approve all training proposals financed under this component, and assist LNDC
in identifying suitable programs.
(iii) LNDC staff benefiting from this scheme would be obliged to
remain in LNDC's service in accordance with Lesotho's laws and regulations
governing those receiving education and training grants and loans. These,
generally, require a recipient to remain in the service of the sponsoring
organization, in this case LNDC, for five years or repay the loan or grant
amount on a pro rata basis (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
Training Grant Fund
60.       The US$150,000 proposed for training skilled and semi-skilled techni-
cians and workers in new projects establishing in Lesotho would contribute to
the financing of an experimental training fund. Under this program, LNDC
proposes to reimburse from this fund 80 percent of the costs incurred by new
project promoters in training Basotho workers under criteria to be established
and approved in advance by LNDC. The program would be an innovative approach
to overcoming one of the main constraints facing prospective investors in
Lesotho: a shortage of skilled and experienced manpower, and would encourage
the establishment of labor-intensive industries. Agreement was reached
between IDA, LNDC and Government during negotiations, on establishing eligi-
bility criteria for subprojects, and a monitoring mechanism that would ensure
that reimbursement claims were for the training expenses approved (Section
2.10(a) of the Project Agreement).
61.       This component of the proposed project would carry the following
terms and conditions:



- 17 -
(i) The US$150,000 would be administered by LNDC, which would receive
the funds from Government as a grant (Section 3.02(e)(ii) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
(ii)  The first five grants financed from this component wotXd require
the prior approval of IDA (Section 2.10(b) of the Project Agreement), and LNDC
would be required to submit to the Association, information on the features of
the beneficiary projects, the employees to be trained, the training program,
and the projected cost of training.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Procurement for the subprojects financed under this credit would be
in accordance with standard Association practice for development banks. The
proceeds of the credit for investment would be disbursed to finance 100 percent of
the-foreign cost of imported goods and services; 80 percent of the local costs
of previously imported goods; and 80 percent of the total cost of civil works.
The component to be used for training LNDC staff would disbursed to finance
100 percent of the costs of travel from and to Lesotho, tuition, books and
related course materials, and subsistence during training for approved courses.
The component for training grant fund would be disbursed on a reimbursement
basis to LNDC, up to 80 percent of the total cost of each approved training
proposal. Disbursements would be expected to be completed by June. 1984.
Benefits and Risks
63.       To the extent that LNDC's capabilities to contribute to planning and
policy formulation in the sectors in which it operates; to identify, promote,
select and implement projects of economic benefit; and to mobilize resources
for investment in such projects are enhanced by the continuation of the
technical and financial support of IDA through this project, the project would
yield significant economic benefits to Lesotho by strengthening one of its
important economic institutions. The project would also provide more direct
economic benefits through the investments and employment to be created with
the credit component. These benefits are difficult to quantify in advance.
However, assuming that, as in the past, about 80 percent of the credit would
be utilized for new projects in which LNDC's contribution averaged about 40
percent of project costs, whilst 20percent was utilized for expansions in
which LNDC's contribution averaged 80 percent, the credit of US$3.7 million
would lead to an investment of about US$8.3 million. Considering the mean
and median investment cost per job under the first project and allowing for
inflation, the investment of US$ 8.3 million could lead to the creation of
between 450 and 1,000 jobs. With the acute employment problems of Lesotho,
this additional employment would be a significant economic contribution.
Finally, the training components, especially the funds for training skilled
and semi-skilled workers, would contribute to the pool of skilled industrial
workers in Lesotho and assist in attracting investors.



- 18 -
64.       LNDC's dependence on expatriate staff with two-to-three-year con-
tracts creates a risk of fluctuations in its competence as an institution;
this risk is being reduced by the development of Basotho professional staff.
Secondly, there would be the normal risks relating to creditworthiness that
major portfolio problems might create. Thirdly, given the severe constraints
to modern non-agricultural sector development in Lesotho and the inevitable
need to rely on foreign investments, LNDC's level of operations will be
dependent on successful external investment promotion and might be less than
anticipated, leading to slower commitments and disbursements of the proposed
credit. Finally, there would be the risk that workers benefitting from the
scheme might be lost to Lesotho through emigration. This is, however, a
general country risk affecting all trained manpower in Lesotho because of more
lucrative opportunities in other parts of the Rand Monetary Area. The poten-
tial benefits of the scheme however make this risk worth taking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Lesotho and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Lesotho National Development Corporation and the recommendations of the committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
66.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Kingdom of Lesotho and the Lesotho National Development Corporation will
be a special condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 6, 1980



-   19   -                               ~~~~~ANNEX  I
-19 -_.
TALY 3A                                                 Page  1  of  4
LESOTHO - SOTCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA THOUAND SO. .)LSOTHO  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AJERAGES
LAh'D AREA ITHOUSAND SO. KM.)                  LESH- KOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             30.4                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      28.6                                  MOST RECENT     GEOCRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Jb ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP J,
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                   40.0         80.0     240.0            261.4      181.9        430.3
ENERGY CONhSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILUCRAMS OF COAL EQtIIVALENT)        ..           ..        ..            80.6        83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAF (MILLIONS)       0.9          1.1       1.3
UREAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  1.5          2.6        9.0             17.1       16.2         24.6
POPLLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         2.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        30.0        36.0       43.0             18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      32.0        38.0       45.0             50.8      252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          38.6        37.6       39.0            44.1        43.1        45.2
15-6. YRS.                          57.0        57.3       57.0            52.9        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4         5.1        4.0             2.8         3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROW'TH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.5         2.2        2.4             2.7         2.4          2.7
LTRBAN                              8.0         7.7       4.8              5.7         4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAh'D)     38.0        39.0       41.0             46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (P'R THOUSAND)      24.0         19.0      17.0             17.2       15.9         11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.5       2.7              3.1        2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLAN'NINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..               ..       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          114.2        97.0       99.0            94.3        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY CF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    92.0        95.0       99.0            89.5        93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           63.7          ..       67.6            55.8        52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..          ..         ..             17.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.0        27.0       21.0             22.3       18.5         11.4
HEALTH
-LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0         47.0      50.0             47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       114.4      114.0              ..       105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       17.0            20.3        26.3         34.4
'RBAN                                .,       100.0       65.0            53.9       5.5          57.9
RURAL                                ..         1.0       14.0            10.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         11.0      13.0            22.5        16.0         40.8
URBAN                                ,.        44.0       51.0            62.5        65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ,.        10.0       12.0             13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHESICIAN               ..     26290.0   17800.0           17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSlNG PERSON      7710.0      3800.0    3780.0            2506.6     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER- HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             720.0/f     570.0      560.0            502.3     1417.1        726.5
URBAX                                ..        70.0       70.0           201.49      197.3        272.7
RURAL                                ..       720.0      710.0           1403.6     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED            ..           ..        ..             23.4       24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       3.9              4.9        5.3          5.4
URBAN                                ..           ..       4.2              4.9        4.9          5.1
UL                                   ..           ..       3.9              5.5        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URAN                                 ..           ..        .. 
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UlEUIIsCS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       22.5         28.1
URBAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       17.8         *5.1
RL'RtL                               ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          8.9



- 20 -                                                 ANNEX I
LES0THO - S;CIAL INDICATOfRi  DATA SHEET             Page  2  of  5
REFERENCE GROLPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LESOTHO                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)O
SAME        7SA.E      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    IlNCOE         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOIAL                   83.0         95.0      119.0               59.0        63.3         82.7
MALE                   63.0          77.0       98,0              64.2         79.1         87.3
FEMALE                102.0         113.0      139.0              44.2        48.4          75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     3.0          7.0        15.0               9.0        16.7         21.4
MALE                    3.0           7.0       13.0              12.0         22. 1        33.0
FEMALE                  4.0           8.0       17.0               4.4        10.2          L5.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)  23.0 C.0                      5.4               7.0         5. 6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                               54.0         46.0       53.0              42.2         41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                             20.0         22.0       22.0              22.9         21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                                    40.0              20.8        31.2          54.0
CONSL'MPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             3. 0/        2.0         3.8               4.0         2.8           9.3
RAD1O RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPLLATIO'S                            6.0          5.0        11.0             44.3         27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS RER THOLSAND
POPULATION                                                  .                    2.9          2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAI' Y GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                               1.2               5.6        53           18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                                 0.4         1.1           2. 5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FCRCE (THOUSANDS)                                  565.0 Ih               -
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      33.7         44.6       44.6              31.9         24.8         29.2
AGRICULTLTRE (PERCENT)                93.4         89.7       60.7              77 .6        69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PLRCENT)                     2.2          3.2        1.4               7.9         10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   56.5          55.8       54.3              40.8        36.9          37.1
MALE                                    62.4         b2.7        61.2              53.9        52.4          48.8
FEMALE                                  50.9         49.1        47.6              25.6        16.0          20.4
ECOGNMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                                  .-       1.0               1.2          1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRI1UL ION
PERCENT OF FRIVATE INCOME              -
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                  .                                         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                                          48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                                             b .3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEhOLDS                                                                            16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LRBAN                                                        226.0             187.6         99.2        241.3
RURAL                                                         58.0              96.8         J8.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL 1LUSS PER CAPITA)
L'RBAN                                  .        .   ..       78.0             138.4         91.9        179.7
RURAL                                   .             .       49.0               71.0        54.68       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLCTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                         60.0              34.5         44.1         24.8
RURAL                                   .             .       26.0              48.7         53.9          37.5
hot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are pop.lation- eighted geometric means, eacloding the extreman
vale-s of the Indicator and the must populated country In each group.  Coverage ot countTies among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwIse noted, data for 1960 refer to ann year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
IC  Africa Sooth of Sahara;   /d  Low Income (5280 or less per capita. 1976);   /c  Lower Middle Incore
fS2B1-550 per capita. 197b);  /1f  19b2;   /&  19s5;   /h  Including eigrant labor in South Africa.
May, 1979



-21  -~~~~                                                   AINU I
~~ SEZAL IfItATOM  ~~~~Page  3  o-f  S
Waiter: dUtbeeet  Ott data arce   e    fetoo ecarcac  ientyjae  the  meat ouitariactnite   cc  reliablo, it sheAlA  alto hs aete,d th~tSha'r ac  cat h  a tetece-
tiAcai   tecparitle incose if the Isa. of stacdaadieed defietlMa  sMc Ciac-Pie easd by Ofee.   -aceecac  tn. -1ediec                        the  W.t. the date  r    aehq.
eeed71 ta-deeee-iie 'rvin  if ece±cd ind±cate tarcd, aid ah-abete-fis  aertial  ee4e  dftcee   becetee  eoccie-be
The  Wdncsae  eroap  -ecr,e-  it94     bt,dete          paPaciiheifta   eosotrie soeta, eOlaudiog the ectreta e-lac  Of the Inedictotr teed Cin  met popeeaned
ea_e   e  ebae;.  -rei   aec  data, y avyecrecca of eli Indietntre  fee Capiteal Lerpl.c Ott hxpertere acd If heieni.tere af Aecera to 'deter eM  Excret
Disposal, Xditteeo, t-ncce Dietrebetiac cW  2ecot-y tic otUer e,atety grOvie are PPlaeiae..eetcbtd goeteic satea  eithoet Q=Iwelac  of the scteve viesa
the net Pea.Paitn-  cc-atj.   ie.the coFc   t tajeitalla   -n.m   tie  !hdicatere doted. c- -oalbhLlty or dti, end 1a tea c                              -fc  ctt,h-c t L.trrlr
lAuD AtZA (thoecead                                                                           AA---kee  Ue tenreta Phsotos    (rereeci of Voeeatitac) - ota.tl  -vane  ad  ,aral
TOO ini  screenyj auc"cerieleg led a-ea eec lelrad otewrSra    et   ht].   re,te   e])aced-b iscn ette dipcad.
Acafle.l,eeq  -  tOni hOeecet ectienie Of  wigetoataal arcse,n   teepwarerey                                oftneeca  taert  -epatice P yp leadece   ee-cia ala.paninY healed
or Promeecely for crepe, pastue-e, nega,t and Atenet pareas. at am                          the coLlatide   -ac diepseaL., aech er aitbauea  tr-etc , ateo    tac-t.
Uie  fellce.                                                                                "Acee.ae  by eatr-cm               teic   cc the eac at Pit peicla   see cache,
O?P-IR CAPItA  013) - -.3? per .hit. netleatee  at correct inrlat printe,                   ePhyata  cr  micie   - Pnealmtitn  tl.1idic by toter if putictietg erqeicti,a,
nee yee   ia; ce  ten-aerate  .ot.,t au 'deid Pat  Ailac (1976-Ti buile),               qoeeif.aied   ic  cs edIte   etn hobla  -aileceictylet
I",. 1970. an-i 1:jlfi date.                                                                Pctee]et      we anenreegPrsa      tylaan  diitad. by   car-                eti. ate  tale
z!tlC4 T14tf  -ftp ztytA  - Antuel acceto         f roAeneenal --C                         d.5 tee-La etfiets c'-a..  peacai-al cane   end e-alteorh            ec
1iflT~Iii~iiTictl.cis.  at-ie.I ana cc tycac-,  ~Ireasr as   4ceeite   c   t.cia. ited -.  COCcI  -armnt ead c-cI- )-opollexIa  natatl. e
therm.]  ftlecrlelip   in elil*asae of ic.1 eqetesLeet pea caPita; 194                         eat, reen    lote  by thei  rs.ecytiia  center aofvyca  cean a -ict  to
1970, end 171` cant                                                                            pebitc ted pricele ocaceal eat zpeoiolleed h.atipttLl iea  -ettbtiit.ti" centers.
deaitale ar  eecebl.he-oete  permeenstly titfed by vi le., tea. poy.Itten.
PiRlLtft-fN i'll ff75: 2701:27271                                        S~~~atabiftetnet  pretidUn4caaccl  vvecadict car  ce-to    atice                  -Ia
T-&l Fo-aletiar. a ea eiloc - Ac at Jcaly 1; 1160, 1Iwo, ccc                                   e.pii el., nn-e, tincaLd  health end eadioal vec-rc rat ;- -enn.i,  -:e
",   nc.                                                                                 by a pyntetena (brat by a aedilel ac'Itent, ter.s.  Iiite    ta.)  nchtt  ;fti
let., P-va-.leelv    vrrtcav,   cauf -~'l    Ratio 'I! eahec ii c t Ppoplalin.;                in-  oi-naeeadation  tad  racidc a lieited ra-an It cedrctetica                  c
liftereet otcrc: e   a:rcai --ni  -Y7 Otffetcitineaprbilty of data                        AidW...eta  P., dicibta]. pled   7-1ttl reea  tt eea%,-,clo    ta ordehce   ree
mug c<eenraeee  ½ 13 12, end htsIa-.                                                  hosetet .l  Qraided by tie tentsr Of teda.
p"'1"tis"eozd-ZLtea-rent ;oeslce7rajeiiioe arc tait  c                             tlfIi
T)tlil.thvlii7.abyce ac   eaed title  -artlhty end fertility                      Aeec   tto   t,abt  pacsrabrctcd      oe                             -t.ed tral 
reet.    -a5eaa;eeeec  a   otaita  rcofa,eisc  three                                      A havahat  eanlata at a grlay vi ididcidanl.e iraSat   i 45   -e-et 
tattle  -aceje  tire ..eretinece  at birtihere a   etth  -erticyre                        theta niai eat]..  A icardc, ar adger mya or cap at ha tilaie 
per repit. fac-      evl  and te-le lIf  eeeIctcecy etbhitictg at                         heiv,hild.tfo  atatic.ita  puaPaSa..
17.5 year..  tat yarnetiae. far fertilito  rite  ato hate three leveic                 iA-crate tte-r of ct.nina. Ps ti-  - itat]. abt-, te. ree -2    A-ertes vta,,
ecauireg~ Icel;..t  n .tertilitynercc it Jocose, leti sed pet                             af peneit  Per et.         "Ial  e-Le, end a-arSoepvaataai   oli.
faetly ilA-4nc perf-reaaa. tatta- ria  in tbec assigned ca  a  three                      reteelyrilig   efatiarde ete-p -reetc)evee.e  anea3-
alee nai-telate  if cairtLity  -a  -teetlity be-ann tar pre-feetaia                     Ae-.e it  Eleeritity lenctet at i-ceitrec  - coRdl  -cec. civ c-al      ar
nPirpa...a. atticeai   Iclogoc 1tith  electatoty it tic-lee  Ieater. -c per-tetona  -
Sicitece   aai iz.ien    aaP pcyeaat   there Is no gmrtei                                  bee,c-ba   n  rural.  wlllege  -epyeci-alj.
etee  thebirt  asi  is  aceL to the dccib rait, end aLa,. the cage
ebctreter  c-nit,  oOtneict. Thin it echie-d only after featility rtice             EtUPTtIRi
-eIlee to tie  aept1te-naton oIf anit net reyractith  race, taohfeaaiiel.ccc
eah ceterati  o- ect   -eyieas  ita.lf -eenly-  The attilaaypie   ary yNWtoal- tte   nb   enr d te...le  - Grace tate.1  eats ted trale tax-oil-
lactia abet nec  eilce   an tin  ticab   ef the yrcjetdi tiecatbtetc   ! 1    je                                    the pra-ese  leant he yareaotenec  otrerral-            arery
af the a.oy-in-a in ietear li..         as, i(ae rate of d-tithe ef fertility               atbhil-age  FPlaystianer.. -oa1y -ealaude- tbeie7c tad Re-  y-r  Ct,
rate at replececeet led          -ajacied fie differean  letetha at ;resary cait-anita  Ir- zrctre    Ith
tear1 1tiatieareave-iatl   s reahed - The year thee atatbeeay pepunaeioan                      ealeareet  -oainerileaey ceased lii p-coev   at.-t c                       -ep.iln
doe be   teaea~.ec  ea   -rIht   i                                                                                            afcn..heinl ag.
I-a i-afctlan feet .01                                                           l.aneanaeo",ta- l. -srato ofod--tir- 4attle  - afir-er  a  0   .- to-
Per kce   arior.t   ea-tC.yctri Is nbc-a  far  iiotr-l ted                                    esacell   fif  i11pn- of 12;ternteev  vanvecceYli
telte.                                                          taciaced.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    O.c       e     -d.         - ,       I.el
Pc-el taiai dAr Ine-ar-' tr c)- hiloree  (i-it Ye--a)e                                         V-hcaac  taiocel.  -1ait.et loertect a!ef coo  vf - Ooatona.Icrottic    ii
itS-at Y-),e e-  aarIla  -otypaecivnIn   breee eetcdra                                        tttacbeeh, Icienusrint,  -hcrvviee -evaa  etioh ap-rea   erd neeyi-
oacrelebitno  laO. i-dt, niL l.97  deta.                                                       deprtea.tecb   Of ecedar.y iactitatia-a
Petaulnie  fru   isoreti               total - Ant..on]   hri rate, tf tate.1 aid-            PattI-teachelrcatio - telrc;. tea  Oeteidna   -  ato1ta  eadaite  -rarlfid be
yer  "nlaE'a   ir    IP-f-S  13v-7 El      17i7.                                           raer   ndceei y Irene -acded by ecar  o                      htrcoea   00e,ara-
p.  a -ec it"I fi   r>o,ilt      di   v       197070-7                                      Adnaliliteac  rai (acet  -lervec-t.   ieo  ca   ci  r )n
Cr-ide SthetOa  a-va a ath--d)-eo, lice biethe per tnic-tr  e  add-                              e cccen ti at  oi             t a Pl. Palative .ccv 11 yecre endac
pee  yaniaiae   eaf- ~1977, 'ad 1277 vata.
Crudle teet  Fete oar  tc-d) - . inol Seethe  ree  th.atemd ar' ni-yar                      ttaleerti$
reeae tce, Fe.                       -teo c,7 ata                                           acencatie   1c t-vai -actoc)r   aace c-areaay-te  a- e oa
1970, ed 1975-                                                                              bra.d,st.ata ea detect] yatlia  pea otoaao  piharitirh   alac   a..l-ve
FeiePtctrr-tcee-,- tho t ato-eds) - danail ecaica of                                 reteleraciaevccteiec  med  i. ye-t  ch,. redi:~taatfano:e-c             crtcc
tceopter   at lrti-actrt aeIece  aide  -c ia-ac   If entlea Itatily                      effect; dcti fir  -ecet yeca rap cat be  -a-naole ilto    .0ev-s
Ol nate  trotrc.                                                                            a     Iiid L~-Irncec - g
Pastor?teecer-onrc rocent -f ecrlec  occet- Perieieavat cae-ted 77 inreerr   tar ctonesno oeictia) - C  revieses  ce t-oao-acrt0t      ct: o
- h  cl   Liai leet do ece  v.edrouy. -                           -       -       -         r   itYent   e   ecerairteciot70-           sc  a  itat  I -tte.
eAnael Proiaai-a  at nil foci aerdilel-e  R-daattIi  r-ldec aced ed                         if it tapi.-  ci leas  for it-s           ea
feed med ia oc c.lende  yet- tenet   tanalititec-ver frioedy cicic                        Cia-crc "e-toe  Attedacer    totoafar-rn                     vtccarotait
(e.g.cetfe ca  ire   at raleld).  k9grastin  prodactoe Of it snot aerefy           ttrite.-                                                     in~i
nero  naleo     t ret to~d tiepplien  toit ic  -ici.ey yea ~aptyt                        totl1av  broFs-  thtoeav.     itaci-at lee Psaa--                     alataere
per day.  Available etetllen  of- aces -dettiv  prcdeaiiia, lpertc lace                  fi-rce  nd anecntaydR    eciOrrbcaie,ace                        Ie,tti. Dnt
scyarta, ed ihanase ci ctch..  !It -P`plies a.ibde  ieia.1 tecd, c..da,                   ciarvaa;ee ncta                     prtl
qratiitbteanrdt Inoad  yaoel-.ae    --ne lIa citribo-e                    ete            ecepeoo)-Faeevv    a--asrety    t0  e  laba   Mat
mate ec-. e_abetnr  by Pit beet Iv, ye-taaat  e ra c-cr  -arra                          Aiaa 1tac-        -eeara-t) - eea   ae   le -tce     , tere-try.  cta       a
aciitby  cad bae-,  oct irar  avae        tmav1 tccasrtaro-. haed  -seat.,                ferti  it r-aegte     if la        I. tahe  fire
age cad era iitrllcthve-    f yapult-ce, end aiii           10 yaIceOt far              1neit,ty srci      frr-caeteie,eti-.at-at, eeenoaa 
Iet   thvead   -.rie.                                                            eetareaty, cater end gte c  ye-itgyeoftota  Ica                    -r
-tate ae   e;.ca   a   e-iy t h--yl- fId  idri.ov                                          ithtrce    r   atraitemc.efec  ted aL-i.eci    av
iatet    11eat  alcca   cloG   e-ce  at tactl centric Per dc ace 2-0 gante  at             9(). 1970, end i9V5 icit-   liht ire  lILa'  tn-fa ttaicir                 et
cairn]. WAs  W1cc  pii,at obbeb 10 deerac ebt,ae ic eniei prutdl,                         vie-ns  are ofrni  the yepOlatiic, end iLang tact  -re.  A leV ccee
Tha. sandardas   -c  Icie  then co-ac  of 75 Irne  at total y,t.act  ca,d                 ar  tro  ftatac-i. cout-ie
-21 gre  tt -nh-el p-otri  Is en csrea rc  ae eb  Idt. pe-cyoc   by FAt                 tacaaei irvateac  Sie  -  Pela af  1pepeaaih- aer I- ad .i end  -erra
in ii  Third r-1acla  bo- -lroy.                                                          bsabr faeltaeaayi   bv    eee
Chili (tee. l-.e  yhea-l"V Ritr irlrtvaeen)             eeca  dsethe per thaaaadk           l    --OI rceaanete-aatsfci (catei cac.-     -ai hod)                     bycaeeP  ele1hena
i.  ra  ceira  L..  ete-c, toch aer'lc  It tieWi  gciv; tar mat den-.                       5 P.ctet.. acaicc  oapeete   vre   0 yc-ctct  ac                 -iect -.3 peane
apte  taeerbt. dnte dee-ted fre  life  taler-i  ten-ehi.
LifeSciev   i  to   ce  ]ateentc tanbie- ifYpeaIa if lht                                     cena   ivft  aet  eve  .alfi  c    icyt.) - c-be  b   - l -1
Wefnt faaelt- tIrer    e-ce                - bccl ecathe of eeet -eder tee                       trirtitecally edeata  ic l.ti Pica ecccb    e-foci aesai,,        sc   he tea
pcateeIcc tbhtsazZla    Iaaf.                                                         tffrdahl,.
Sete. aee   epa    elietaee   i-etcer  ocate-ated                                           Ru prnal b- ron efteaOtp    ee    oe.  rt her ate  rae nbp-                  niSie
tesca atna  edI -Th  n         trraec-eaa  tainer erpcae  ytIpoecic-                      muatdteatCa  ethe -italar Jovety foevee~ tacl- free,                     t -  e-a cr
Pod  micratesah-tcy he anedaIf                 at,-rb -p et-itip~  ...,ecnaie                 I   t    ereoI   efpa Alcolotc-be   o   ea -e.   r    ialt    c
tat.,b  artte Ieac Pb it f tee-c  arena      -,-   '    I  -tcccbl -rna    ea h lanprtcO
than the haceecott  cc ecer  if U.a ro-hcbjd ia not baa  ta. apv  a                                                                 ornie e,,d Coe.l-RRr leea
diepecaprti,ate peat a? the day be fetahina the t.eiiya   ceccan itrontsE.                                                             a  enIt  ae  a-h PFaJci...oa   P~vrtarno
A-egeat l.-f79



-22 -                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONI1IC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977/78-1/                                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Million      %                                               1973/74-19'7/78            1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                 318.8        100.0                                                  10.0                   9.5
Gross Domestic Investment             60.7         19.0                                                  12.0                   6.8
Gross National Savings                11.4          3.6
Current Account Balance              -49.3       -15.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                 44.5         14.0                                                   1.3                   7.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                248.5        77.9                                                   18.0                   7.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976/77
Value Added                              Labor Force/                              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million      %                           Mln.    %                                  US. %
Agriculture                          59.6          36.4                         .343   85.6                                174         43
Industry                             t3.8          14.6                         ... 8    2.0                              2975        729
Services                             80.2          49.0                         ..49   12.2                               1637        401
Unallocated
Total/Average          163.6        100.0                          400  100.0                               408         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Millon          % of CDP                         (Rand Million)            % of GDP
197        197    196 -7                         1977/78       1977-78    1974/75-77/78
Current Receipts                                                                                  52.1         29.5           26.4
Current Expenditure                                                                               40.0         22.6           24.0
Current Surplus                                                                                    2.1          1.2            2.7
Capital Expenditure                                                                               24.2         14.9           11,7
External Assistance(net)                                                                           6.8         _3.8            2.9
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978
(Million rends outstanding endperiod)
Money and Quasi Money
Bank credit to Public Sector                          2.6       3.2        2.'6      3.2        6.4       6.3       6.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         4.8       5.7        8.6       9.8       13.9      17.9      21.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7 of GP                      ..         ..        ..        .
General Price Index (1972-100)3'                    100.0     112.8      122.8     140.8      155.6     183.2     202.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                   ..       12.8        8.5      15.0       10.5      17.7      13.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        100.0      23.0      -18.7      23.0     100.0      - 2.0       7.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        11.6      18.8       50.9      13.9      41.8       28.8       17.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Provisional.                                       .. Not Available
2/ Domestic labor force                                 . Not Applicable
3/ Retail price index for lowr and -middle income urban households.
1/3/80



-2.3 -                                      AMNX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCIANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     1977     1978                                      US$ Millions       %
Exports of Goods, NFS               24.5      24.8     46.6           Diamonds                         7.0         3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS              199.4    222.8    271.2            Cattle                          0.3          1.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)        -174.9- -198.0 - -224.6             Wool                            -2.8        12.8
Mohair                          3.3         15.1
Interest Payments (net)              ..        ..        .            Other                           8.5         38.7
Workers' Remittances                91.2    102.8    110.4
Other Factor Payments (net)          2.9       2.1     -7.3           All other commodities
Net Transfers                       26.2      41.7     68.9                      Total                21.9       100.0
Balance on Current Account         -54.6    -51.4    -52.6
EXTERNAL DEET, DECEMBER 31; 1978
Direct Foreign Investment
Net MLT Borrowing                     ..       ..       ..                                                   USS Million
Disbursements
Amortization                      ..        ..       ..            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               29.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Subtotal                           . .                .            Total Outstanding & Disbursed
t1
Capital Grants                       ..        ..       ..            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978-
Other Capital (net)
Other Items (n.e.i.)                 ..        ..       ..            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               3.0
Increase in Reserves                 ..        ..       ..             on-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Gooss Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves (end year)              ..        ..       ,.            IBMD/IDA Lending Nove.iber 30, 1979 (Million US$).
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                               IBRD    IDA
Imports                         191.7    214.6    262.3
of which: Petroleum           14.9     26.4       ..            Outstanding and Disbursed            .     19.5
Exports                          16.9      14.0     34.8           Undisbursed                          .     30.7
of which: Petroleum             .         .        .            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        .     50.2
RATE OF EXCRANGE
1974     1975     1976      1977     1978
US$1.00   $     0.679    0.732    0.870    0.870    0.870
R1.00 = us$    1.472    1.367    1.150    1.150    1.150
1/  Estimate
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not available
Not applicable
1/21/80



- 24 
ANNEX II
Page i of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at November 30, 1979)
Amount: (less cancella-
tions, reimbursed,
terminations)
(US$ Million)
Credit      Year       Borrower       Purpose                  IDA         Undisbursed
Three credits are fully disbursed                              13.7            -
619-LSO      1976      Lesotho        Second Highway            5.5           1.8
702-LSO     1977       Lesotho        DFC                       2.5           1.9
748-LSO     1977       Lesotho        Second Education          7.5           7.1
795-LSO     1978       Lesotho        Basic Agricultural
Services Project       6.0           4.9
884-LSO*    1979       Lesotho        Third Highway             9.0           9.0
(2.0 EEC Special Action Credit)
887-LSO**   1979       Lesotho        Second Water Supply       6.0           6.0
Total                                  50.2          30.7
of which has been repaid                0.0
Total now held by IDA 1/               50.2
Total undisbursed                      30.7
Note: Lesotho has received no Bank Loans.
*    Effective as of December 11, 1979.
**   Not yet effective.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments
12/20/79



- 2 
AN'EX I,
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMNTS (as of November 30,_1979)
Investment                                                      (US$ Million)
No.        Year    Type of Business                 Loan       Egity        Total
405-LSO        1978    Lesotho Quality
Aggregate (PTY) Ltd.          299,000      31,000     330,000
Total Gross Commitments       299,000      31,000      330,000
Less:  Cancellations,
terminations,
repayment and sales      -
Total now held by IFCA        299,000      31,000      330,000
Total Undisbursed



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 619-LSO       Second Highway Project; US$4.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing reasonably well with construction of the
St. Michaels-Mantsonyane-Thaba Tseka road expected to be completed by October.
However, various sections of the road show deterioration of the gravel surface
due to heavy rains, steep gradient and inadequate maintenance and side drains
need to be lined to avoid washouts. No funds are available for this additional
work, which will be done by force account. The Labor Intensive Construction
Unit (LCU) has successfully completed improvement of a 31 km long gravel road
and improvement of airstrips at costs comparable to equipment--intensive
operations; it is constructing a 34 km long gravel road with financing by
SIDA.
Credit No. 702-LSO       Development Finance Company Project (DFC); US$2.5
million Credit of May 20, 1977; Effectiveness Date;
August 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Lesotho National Development Corporation has submitted
applications which will fully commit its portion of this line of credit;
the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation portion is already fully
disbursed.
Credit No. 748-LSO       Second Education Project; US$7.5 million Credit of
November 30, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 28, 1978;
Closing Date: December 3, 1981
Over a year after Credit effectiveness, the Project has made little
progress. The Project Unit's director has yet become sufficiently acquainted
with Bank procedures and requirements. The experience of the first education
project, successfully implemented and closed appears to have had no bearing on
this second project. The architectural team is incompletely staffed and
without terms of reference. Relationships and division of responsibilities
between the architectural team, on the one hand, and the Project Unit Ministry
of Public Works, on the other, have yet to be defined. The architectural work
initially prepared was found greatly to exceed, both in areas and cost, the
agreed appraisal estimates. The architectural team is in the process of
simplifying the design in accordance with the agreed areas and cost. The
preparation of the equipment list is just beginning.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 795-LSO       Basic Agricultural Services Project; US$6.0 million
Credit of May 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
August 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This is a follow-up project to the Thaba Bosiu Project designed to
increase manpower. and institutional capability of other Ministry of Agriculture
and to provide basic agricultural services for increasing production of five
major crops. The Project covers about 75 percent of the country's arable land
containing 66 percent of the country's population. The $26 million project
will be assisted also by the European Development Fund, the Federal Republic
of Germany, the United Kingdom and the United Nations Development Program. It
has experienced moderate problems in meeting staffing requirements that are at
least partly attributable to competition from the South African mines.
Absorption of the Produce Marketing Board into MOA has been completed, but it
is not yet operational. The major issue is a lack of funds for work on Block
IV, for which the Government may require assistance in locating and negotiating
with a donor.
Credit No. 884-LSO       Third Highway Project; US$9.0 million (plus $2.2 million
EEC Special Action Credit) Credit of December 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: December 11, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project is designed to improve Lesotho's road network and
maintenance capability. It involves the paving of 24 km of the St. Michaels-
Molimo Nthuse road, a feasibility study of the 120 km Oxbow-Mokhotlong road,
technical assistance and consultant services for improving road maintenance
and supervising construction, and fellowships for ex-country training in civil
and mechanical engineering and highway maintenance and equipment repair,
Credit effectiveness has been delayed pending the Government's meeting the
condition that ODM assistance be obtained to strengthen operations of the
Central Mechanical Workshop and Plant Pool.
Credit No. 887-LSO       Water Supply Project; US$6.0 million Credit of
March 20, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not vet effective);
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The Project provides for the extension of water supply systems
in seven towns, technical assistance and engineering consulting services to
provide public water service to 20,000 new consumers by 1986, and improve
the reliability and quality of service for an additional 21,000. The Water
and Sewerage Branch of the Ministry of Works would also be strengthened
under the project and through a comprehensive training program financed by
German bilateral aid. Slowness in recruiting personnel and consultants
required has delayed effectiveness.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  11 months
(b)  Preparation by                    Government of Lesotho, L.N.D.C. &
Bank staff
(c) First Bank Mission to consider
the project                  : Februar-; 1979
(d)  Appraisal Mission departed   : April 17, 1979
(e)  Negotiations                   : November 26, 1979
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  April 30, 1980
II.   Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.   Special Conditions
(a) As a special condition of credit effectiveness, the Government of
Lesotho would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement to onlend the
credit component of the credit to LNDC at 6 percent interest per
annum (para. 66);   the Government would pass the funds for the
trainingcamponents of the project on to LNDC as grants (para. 59and 61);
(b) The foreign exchange risk of the credit component would be borne
by the Government, which would charge LNDC a fee of 1 pecent
per annum for this service; this fee would be passed on by LNDC
to its sub-borrowers (para. 57);
(c) The Association would assist LNDC in identifying training programs
suitable for LNDC staff, and would approve all training proposals
financed under the staff training component of the project
(para. 59);
(d) LNDC staff being sent abroad for training would agree to serve
LNDC for five years after completing the training program
(para. 59);
(e) The first five grants for training Basotho workers in new enter-
prises would be subject to prior approval by IDA (para. 61)4



