~DCUMET SCREDIT NUMBER 985 LSO
Project Agreement
(Second LNDC Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 985 LSO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMEI, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO& ATIO    (hereinafter called the
Association) and LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (herein-
after called LNDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Kingdom of Lesotho (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower, for relending and making available to
LNDC, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
dollars ($4,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that LNDC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS LNDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, in the General Conditions
(as so defined) and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of LNDC
Section 2.01. LNDC shall carry out the Project, described in
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, and conduct its
operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and personnel and in accordance with LNDC Act and its Statement
of Policy.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, LNDC shall present
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval,
LNDC shall furnish to the Association       application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be
financed thereunder (including a description of the expendi-
tures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed by
LNDC and an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayment to the
Borrower of the amount to be used for the Investment, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by LNDC for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
(i) shall not extend beyond:
(A) twenty years, in the case of Investment
Projects for tourism; and
(B) fifteen years, in the case of Investment
Projects other than Investment Projects for
tourism,
all such periods to be counted from the date of
approval by the Association of such Investment
Project or, in the case of a free-limit Sub-loan,
of authorization by the Association to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of
such Investment Project; and


﻿-3-
(ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual,
or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal
and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or
more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and LNDC shall otherwise
agree, LNDC shall present applications for approval of Investment
Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before June 30, 1982.
Section 2.03. (a) LNDC undertakes that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be
made on terms whereby LNDC shall obtain, by written agreement or
other appropriate legal means satisfactory to the Association,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the
Association and LNDC, including, without limitation, in the case
of any such Sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appro-
priate in the case of any such Investment, the right: (i) to
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stand-
ards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) to require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to apply to Sub-loans and Investments, the finan-
cial terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph
(c) of this Section; (iii) to require that the goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project
and to ensure that such goods and services shall be (A) used
exclusively in the carrying out of such Investment Project and (B)
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors, such as time of delivery and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance and repair facilities and
spare parts therefor and, in the case of services, their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them; (iv) to inspect,
and to ensure the Association's right to inspect, such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Invest-
ment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (v) to require that the Investment Enterprise take out
and maintain such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice and
that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and


﻿-4 -
delivery of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
or Investment to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (vi) to
obtain all such information as the kssociation or LNDC shall
reasonably request relating to the -oregoing and to the admini-
stration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise; and (vii) to suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its agreement with LNDC.
(b) LNDC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and LNDC; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c) LNDC undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on
terms and conditions which shall provide, inter alia, that:
(i) the interest to be paid by the Investment Enter-
prise to LNDC will be not less than eleven per cent
(11%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time;
(ii) a fee to be paid by the Investment Enterprise will
be charged by LNDC at a rate of one per cent (1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Sub-loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time;
(iii) the repayment terms shall be in accordance with
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement; and
(iv) in the case of Investments for factory buildings,
rental charges therefor to be paid by the Invest-
ment Enterprise to LNDC will be not less than
fifteen per cent (15%) per annum of the cost of the
said buildings subject to price escalation provi-
sions applied by LNDC in accordance with its
Statement of Policy.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. (a) LNDC shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning '"e expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
t'e Sub-loans and the Investments, Parts B and C of the Project.
(b) Without any limitation on the generality of the fore-
going paragraph (a), LNDC shall furnish to the Association,
at three-months intervals, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the opera-
tions, financial condition and resources of LNDC.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account in respect of the Sub-loans and Investments,
or by such later date as the Association shall agree, LNDC
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operations of the Investment
Projects, Parts B and C of the Project, their costs and the
benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
LNDC and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 2.05. LNDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, LNDC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and LNDC shall
otherwise agree, LNDC: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer,
encumber or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets,
except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all
action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to
carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. LNDC shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of LNDC under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. LNDC shall exchange views with the Association
on any proposal to modify its Statement of Policy, and shall not
amend its Statement of Policy except in agreement with the Asso-
ciation.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of Part B of the Project,
LNDC shall consult with the Association on suitable training
courses, and shall present to the Association, for its approval,
proposals for the training of LNDC's officers including measures
designed to secure, to the extent practicable under the Borrower's
laws and regulations, their subsequent retention in LNDC's employ-
ment for a continuous period of at least five years.
Section 2.10. For the purposes of Part C of the Project:
(a) LNDC shall establish criteria as to the type of enter-
prises which are eligible to receive financizl assistance out
of the proceeds of the Credit for training skilled and semi-
skilled technicians and workers and the procedures for granting
said financial assistance, such criteria and procedures being
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and
(b) any of the first five requests from enterprises for
financial assistance shall be submitted by LNDC to the Associa-
tion for its approval, and thereafter, any request therefor
from an enterprise shall be submitted to LNDC for its approval.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. LNDC shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of LNDC and shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. LNDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified


﻿-7-
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of LNDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, LNDC shall:
(a) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner
as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agree-
ment; and
(b) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond LNDC's control,
be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall
be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and LNDC shall
otherwise agree, LNDC shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to
incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consoli-
dated debt of LNDC and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would exceed three times the consolidated capital and
surplus of LNDC and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of this
Section:
(a) the term "debt" means any debt incurred by LNDC or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
LNDC or by a Subsidiary;
(b) wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement (including the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the loan
S.s drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but
only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Maloti debt payable in foreign


﻿-8-
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by LNDC for --e purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d) the term "consolidated debt of LNDC and all its Subsi-
diaries" means the total amount of debt of LNDC and all its
Subsidiaries excluding any debt owed by LNDC to any Subsidiary
or by any Subsidiary to LNDC or to any other Subsidiary;
(e) the term "consolidated capital and surplus of LNDC
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, plus all non-capitalized grants made
to LNDC and all its Subsidiaries, surplus and free reserves of
LNDC and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom: (i)
such amounts as shall represent equity interests of LNDC in any
Subsidiary, or of any such Subsidiary in LNDC or in any other
Subsidiary; and (ii) LNDC's accumulated capital reserves resulting
from revaluation of assets in buildings.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association and LNDC shall
otherwise agree, LNDC shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.06. LNDC shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Maloti) used in its borrowing
and lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and LNDC shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and LNDC shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by LNDC of its obligations under this Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of LNDC and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.


﻿-9-
(b) LNDC shall furnish to the Association all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of LNDC and its
Subsidiaries, if any (including any proposal to create, acquire or
take over a Subsidiary).
Section 4.02. LNDC shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by LNDC of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. LNDC shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of LNDC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify LNDC of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The address so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For LNDC:
Lesotho National Development Corporation
P.O. Box MS 666
Maseru
Lesotho
Cable address:                     Telex:
DEVCOR                            341 BB
Maseru
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by LNDC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director, or by such other person or persons as such


﻿- 11 -
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and LNDC shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By             I/ )   K  JV     FO    c
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By            ls[
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
1980
FOR SECRETARY


