                                            Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                Report No: 54041-AF




                                       PROJECT PAPER

                                      ON A
                          PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.0 MILLION FROM PILOT CRW
                        (US$49 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                               TO

                      THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                              FOR

    STRENGTHENING HEALTH ACTIVITIES FOR THE RURAL POOR PROJECT



                                          May 11, 2010




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region



  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
  performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
  World Bank authorization.                       i
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2010
                                   Currency Unit = Afghani
                                       Aft47.24 = US$1
                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                     March 21 ­ March 20

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF                 Additional Financing
ARTF               Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
BHC                Basic Health Center(s)
BPHS               Basic Package of Health Services
BSC                Balanced Score Card
CHC                Community Health Center(s)
CRW                Crisis Response Window
DA                 Designated Account
DPT                Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus
EPHS               Essential Package of Hospital Services
FM                 Financial Management
GOA                Government of Afghanistan
HMIS               Health Management Information System
IDA                International Development Association
IP                 Implementation Progress
IMR                Infant Mortality Rate
JSDF               Japan Social Development Fund
MDG                Millennium Development Goal(s)
MOPH               Ministry of Public Health
MOPH-SM            Ministry of Public Health-Strengthening Mechanism
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization(s)
PDO                Project Development Objective
RBF                Results-Based Financing
SHARP              Strengthening Health Activities for the Poor
SM                 Strengthening Mechanism
TB                 Tuberculosis

                        Vice President:        Isabel Guerrero
                        Country Director:      Nicholas Krafft
                        Sector Director:       Michal Rutkowski
                        Sector Manager:        Julie McLaughlin
                        Task Team Leader:      Inaam Haq
                       THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC be AFGHANISTAN
This document has a restricted distribution and may OF used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                 ii
                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


Project Paper Data Sheet ................................................................................................................... iv 
I.      Introduction ............................................................................................................................... 1 
II.     Background and Rationale for Additional Financing ............................................................... 1 
III.  Project Implementation Arrangements ..................................................................................... 5 
IV.  Project Risk Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................. 5 




                                                                         iii
                           PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET

Date: April 30, 2010                     Team Leader: Inaam Haq
Country: Afghanistan                     Sector Director: Michal Rutkowski
Project Name: Strengthening Health       Sector Manager: Julie McLaughlin
Activities for the Rural Poor Project    Country Director: Nicholas Krafft
Additional Financing                     Environmental Category: B
Original Project ID: P112446
AF Project ID P120669
Recipient : Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Responsible agency: Ministry of Public Health,
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m) (Original project + AF)
FY                2009         2010         2011        2012          2013         2014
Annual              8           12           15          20            20            9
Cumulative          8           20           35          55            70           79
Current closing date: September 30, 2013
Revised closing date: N.A.
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?  Yes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                     Yes       No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?  Yes X No
Revised project development objectives/outcomes:
The project development objective remains unchanged: "to contribute to
improving the health and nutritional status of the people of Afghanistan, with a
greater focus on women and children and under-served areas of the country, as
set out in the Health and Nutrition Sector Strategy 2008-2013."
Does the project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
                           For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan [ ] Credit [ X] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing: SDR32.0 million (US$49 million equivalent)
        from Pilot Crisis Response Window (CRW).
        Proposed terms: Standard IDA Grant terms.
                 Financing Plan (US$m) (Original project + AF)
                 Source                                   Total
Borrower/Recipient
IDA                                                                       30.00
   -New: AF                                                               49.00
Others:
Results-based Trust Fund                                                  12.00
JSDF                                                                      17.65
ARTF
(secured)                                                                 22.00
To be secured :                                                           14.15
Total                                                                     144.8


                                             iv
I.   INTRODUCTION


1.      On December 10, 2009 the World Bank Board of Executive Directors approved the
proposal to create a Crisis Response Window (CRW) to help eligible IDA countries deal with the
global economic and financial crisis.

2.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
grant in an amount of SDR32.0 million (US$49 million equivalent) from the pilot CRW resources
to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for the Strengthening Health Activities for the Rural Poor
Project (SHARP) (P112446), which is currently supported by IDA Grant H-469 (SDR19.9 million,
US$30 million equivalent).

3.      The proposed Additional Financing would help to cover a portion of the funding gap
identified during project appraisal and enable the implementation of Components 1 and 2 to
deliver basic health and hospital services to the vast majority of the poor (84%) and of the overall
population (80%) who live in rural areas. This is fully consistent with the CRW objective of
providing financial assistance to protect core spending on health. There would be no changes to the
project's development objective, results framework, and implementation arrangements. The
project is co-financed by the Results-Based Financing Trust Fund (TF95691, US$12 million),
JSDF (TF95919, US$17.65 million), and ARTF (TF96362, US$22 million).


II. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

Background

4.      Afghanistan has been besieged by civil strife for almost three decades. Conflict left
Afghanistan devastated with destroyed infrastructure, fragmented institutions and a lack of basic
health, education and sanitation facilities in most parts of the country. However, over the last five
years, Afghanistan has achieved significant results in a challenging context. Nevertheless, the
situation remains very fragile, especially in view of the tense, and in some areas deteriorating,
security situation. Notwithstanding the economic recovery and the implementation of a sound
development strategy, the country has not emerged fully from its state of conflict.

5.     Afghanistan's macroeconomic situation is characterized by high reliance on agricultural
production and heavy dependence on external aid. In international comparison, Afghanistan
scores very low in domestic revenue mobilization. The overall revenue to GDP ratio increased
from an extremely low base of 3.2% in 2002/03 to 8.1% 2009/2010; however, it covers only 56%
the government's core recurrent budget; the balance being funded by the Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). The Government's core development budget is entirely
financed by external aid. Afghanistan's high aid -dependence is the country's most prominent
exposure to the global economic crisis. Given that the global economic crisis is still unfolding, its
impact on donor funding support to Afghanistan is uncertain but could be significant in case lower
or negative GDP growth in donor countries adversely impact aid flows. Furthermore, only one
third of the donor assistance is channeled through the Government's systems. At least for the
medium term, the government has no discretionary resources to fund its core development
expenditures.

6.      Notwithstanding the economic growth that Afghanistan has experienced over the past eight
years, which brought the estimated GDP per capita to US$429 in 2008/09, poverty remains
persistent. In 2007/08, 36% of the population was estimated to be poor and lived on less than the
official poverty line. Many more people are susceptible to becoming poor. Nearly half the
population lives on less than 120 percent of the poverty line. One small, negative shock has the
potential to move many individuals into poverty.

7.      The Afghan health system has made considerable progress over the period 2003-2008,
thanks to strong Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) leadership, sound public health policies,
innovative service delivery models, careful program monitoring and evaluation, and donor funding
support. In 2003, the MOPH undertook a series of critical and strategic steps: it defined a package
of basic priority health services (BPHS); it established large scale contracting with international
and national NGOs for the delivery of services; and it prioritized monitoring and evaluation of
health sector performance. A common set of indicators has been used to assess performance of
service providers, and a third party has been recruited to perform national facility surveys on a
regular basis.

8.      The results of the above efforts have been encouraging. The number of functioning
primary health care facilities has increased from 496 in 2002 to 1,169 in 2007 while the proportion
of facilities with skilled female health workers has increased from 25% to 83%. The health
management information systems indicates a four-fold increase in the number of outpatients visits
from 0.23 visits per capita per year in 2004 to 0.94 in 2007. Comparing the results of household
surveys conducted between 2003 and 2006 also shows significant improvements in the coverage of
reproductive and child health services. At the outcome level, a nation-wide survey conducted in
late 2006 found an infant mortality rate of 129 per 1,000 live births and an under-five mortality
rate of 191 per 1,000 live births, representing a 22% and 26% decline, respectively, from the 2003
estimates. Despite this progress, the under five mortality rate in Afghanistan is still 67% higher
than the average for low income countries. Maternal mortality is the second highest in the world
with a ratio of 1,600 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. As the country is large, poorly linked
and with a thinly spread population, physical access remains an issue with more than 60% of the
population living more than one hour's travel from a health facility. This is one of the factors that
explain very low vaccination coverage (DPT3 coverage is 35% vs. 65% for low income countries
as a whole) and limited number of institutional deliveries (<15%).

9.      IDA has been playing an instrumental role to assist the MOPH in building a cost-effective
and results-focused basic health services system in Afghanistan through lending operations and
analytical work. An IDA grant H 469 of SDR19.9 million (US$30 million equivalent) for the
SHARP was approved on March 24, 2009, and became effective on April 22, 2009. The project
development objective (PDO) is " to contribute to improving the health and nutritional status of the
people of Afghanistan, with a greater focus on women and children and under-served areas of the
country, as set out in the Health and Nutrition Sector Strategy 2008-2013". The project supports
the implementation of a portion of the 2009-2013 health sector program and has four components:

                                                 2
(1) Financing the provision of BPHS in 11 provinces; (2) Strengthening the delivery of the
Essential Package of Hospital Services (EPHS); (3) Strengthening MOPH stewardship functions;
and (4) Piloting results-based financing. The key indicators for the project are:

       Contraceptive Prevalence Rate - % of women 15-49 years currently using a family
       planning method (modern)
       Tuberculosis (TB) treatment success rate
       Proportion of newborns who were breastfed within one hour of birth
       DPT3 coverage among children 12-23 months.
       Proportion of births attended by skilled attendants
       Proportion of parents knowing the appropriate care of a sick child less than 5 years with
       ARI. Coverage of antenatal care-% of all pregnant women receiving at least one antenatal
       care visit

10.     Project Performance: The project implementation is on track toward achieving its
development objective. Out of the eight project provinces using performance-based contracting
for delivery of BPHS, new contracts for seven provinces have been awarded and new service
providers are commencing their services; bid evaluation for one province is still ongoing but
service delivery is maintained through the extension of the contract with the existing NGO
contracted under the previous project (Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development
Project ­ P078324). SHARP is rated Satisfactory as for the achievement of the PDO and
Moderately Satisfactory for the Implementation Progress (IP) due to some procurement delays.

Rationale for Additional Financing from CRW

11.     The cost estimates of the project as appraised was US$126 million, of which the costs of
provision of BPHS in 11 project provinces were estimated at US$97.5 million or 77% of the total
project cost estimates. Given the availability of IDA allocations for Afghanistan, the original IDA
grant H469 of SDR19.9 million (US$30 million equivalent) covers only 24% of the total project
funding requirement. Efforts have been made to secure support from other sources. Co-financing
secured to date includes a grant of US$12 million from the Results-based Financing Trust Fund
(TF95691) for Component 4 of the project; a JSDF grant of US$17.65 million (TF95919); and an
ARTF grant of US$22 million (TF96362).

12.     The March 2010 IDA supervision mission reviewed the overall project implementation
progress and updated the project cost estimates and funding requirements taking into account the
prices of signed contracts. The revised total project cost estimates are US$144.8 million, reflecting
an increase of US$9.8 million for Component 1 and an upward revision of US$8 million for
Components 2, as shown in table 1 below. The increase in the costs of Component 1 is mainly due
to the fact that the new BPHS package includes mental health and enhanced nutrition services. The
cost estimate of Component 2 is revised to support the provision of hospital services critical to
reduce maternal and child mortality in selected locations.




                                                 3
                                    Table 1: Total Project Costs (US$ million)

          Components                                       Original Costs   Revised Costs
         1. Basic Package of Health Services                          97.5              107.3
         2. Essential Package of Hospital Services                      1.0               9.0
         3. Strengthening of MOPH Stewardship
         Functions                                                      16.5                  16.5
         4. Testing Innovations                                         11.0                  12.0
         Total                                                         126.0                 144.8

   13.     A comparison of the revised project cost estimate with the financing secured to date
   indicates a funding gap of US$63.15million. Securing funding support to cover the funding gap of
   SHARP has been challenging for several reasons. First, with the envelope of external aid that is
   channeled through the Government systems, there are competing claims by various programs.
   Second, although the level of external aid resources has been maintained, the share of donor
   support without donor "preferencing" for specific programs has declined over the years. Third,
   donor support has so far been based on annual funding decisions by donor capitals and there is
   unpredictability with regard to the timing when donor pledges are actually paid in. These factors
   impact on effective planning, budgeting and implementation of development programs and
   projects.

   14.     The proposed Additional Financing would help cover a significant portion of the funding
   gap and enable the implementation of Components 1 and 2 to deliver basic health and hospital
   services to the population, thus, it is fully consistent with the CRW objective of providing
   financial assistance to protect core spending on health. The proposed Additional Financing is also
   consistent with the CRW objective of facilitating the effective use of all external resources for this
   priority project. Understanding has been reached with the ARTF Management Committee that
   additional ARTF resources will be provided to the project to close the funding gap. Table 2 below
   shows the allocation of the proceeds of the proposed additional financing.


                         Table 2: Financing Plan (US$ million)
                                                                                                     Total
                                                Norway                                 Remaining   funding
    Components                  IDA              RBF      JSDF     ARTF     Total        gap*      required
                         Original   Proposed
                          IDA          AF
1. Basic Package of
Health Services                19          41               17.4    15.75      93.15       14.15       107.3
2. Essential Package
of Hospital Services            1           8                                     9                         9
3. Strengthening of
MOPH Stewardship
Functions                      10                           0.25     6.25     16.5                      16.5
4. Testing Innovations                               12                         12                        12
Total                          30          49        12   17.65        22   130.65         14.15       144.8

                                                     4
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

15.    Activities to be funded by the proposed Additional Financing would be carried out using
the existing implementation arrangements. MOPH is taking steps to strengthen its procurement
management capacity to mitigate against procurement delays.

16.    There are no overdue audit reports for the implementing entity of this project ­ MoPH.
Furthermore, all outstanding financial management issues, including established ineligible
expenditure claims have been resolved for this implementing entity.

17.     A segregated designated account to be opened at the DA Afghanistan Bank in USD will be
established for this additional financing. Same as the original IDA grant, this additional financing
will be disbursed under the transaction based method. In addition to advances to be made to the
designated account, reimbursement, direct payment and special commitment will also be made
available to the project. Ceiling of the designated account will be set at US$5 million and claims
against all contracts (for goods, works, consultants' services) valued at US$25,000 or more will
require supporting documents. Further details of disbursement arrangement are stipulated in the
disbursement letter.


IV. PROJECT RISK MITIGATION MEASURES

18.    Project Risks and Mitigation Measures: The project risk assessment and mitigation
measures as presented in the Emergency Project Paper for the SHARP remain valid. The key risks
and mitigation measures include:

         Insecurity and unpredictability of donor financing for the sector are risks outside project's
         control that may hamper its chances of success. However, as demonstrated under the now
         closed Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development Project, the delivery of
         BPHS through national NGOs works well even in insecure areas. Health Shuras
         (community councils) are involved to guarantee community ownership. The pilot CRW
         allocation substantially reduces the existing financing gap. The team will pursue further
         financing from ARTF or other sources to fully close the gap.
         The Government of Afghanistan's commitment, internal controls, and external audits help
         reduce vulnerability to corruption.

19.    Terms and Conditions for Additional Financing: The Additional Financing would be on
standard IDA Grant terms and will finance 100% of project expenditures, including taxes. There
are no project-specific conditions for effectiveness. SHARP's original Closing Date September 30,
2013 would be maintained.




                                                   5
