Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13572
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU, SA (ELECTROPERU)
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2018-PE)
SEPTEMBER 29, 1994
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



UNITS AND MEASURES
Kw                       -     kilowatt
MW                       -     megawatt - 1,000 kW
GW                       -     gigawatt - 1,000,000 kW
kWh                      -     kilowatt hour
GWh                      -     gigawatt hours - 1,000,000 kWh
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BD                       -     Bidding Documents
CENTROMIN                *     Compania Minera del Centro del Peru
COFIDE                   *     Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
DGE                      ,     Direccion General de Elctricidad
ELECTROLIMA              -     Electricidad de Lima (Empresa Electricas
Asociadas)
ELECTROPERU              -     Electricidad del Peru
FD                       -     Final Design
FS                       -     Feasibility Study
HIDRANDINA               -     Energia Hidroelectrica Andina
MME                      .     Ministry of Mines and Energy
PR                       -     President's Report
PS                       .     Prefeasibility Study
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Peru
Power Engineering Proiect (Loan 2018-PE)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Peru - Power Engineering Project (Loan
2018-PE)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. The Borrower contributed
Part II of the PCR.
The first project objective to accelerate the studies of twelve hydroelectric projects and
one thermal power plant was partially met. Electroperu, the Borrower and principal beneficiary, took
an unduly long time in selecting consultants (following its own procedures) and initiating the studies,
which required a three-year extension of the loan closing date. Several studies were incomplete and
lacking financing when in May 1987 the debt service moratorium by the Peruvian Administration caused
suspension of disbursement on all Bank loans. The other beneficiaries, Electrolima, Hidrandina, and
Centromin were effective in selecting consultants (following the Bank guidelines) and in completing their
studies on time in 1984.
The second objective of strengthening master planning for the sector and transferring
planning capability from the Ministry of Mines and Energy to Electroperu was successfully met. Until
recently, Electroperu has been updating a master plan for power sector development.
The project cost was only US$27.8 million or 69% of the original cost estimate, and
US$6 million was canceled from the US$25 million Bank loan.
The outcome of the project is rated as marginally satisfactory and its institutional
development impact as substantial.  The sustainability of the project's benefits is rated as likely,
particularly because the reform initiated in 1992 is now nearly complete and the ongoing privatization
of the power sector is likely to remove the uncertainty about the good use that can be made of the results
of the studies financed by this loan.
The PCR presents a satisfactory account of project development.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDAD, S.A. (ELECTROPERU)
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN 2018-PE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                        (i)
EVALUATION SUMMARY .(i)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity .1
2. Sector Background   .1.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
Economic, Political & Sector Overview .1
Resources and Organizaton, 1981   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
Bank Power Lending  ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
3. Preparation.                                                             3
Sector Planning.                                                       3
Relending Arrangments   ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    3
Timetable   ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
Project Objectives and Description.                                    4
Consultants   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
Completion Date and Cost.                                              6
Financial Issues.                                                      6
4. Implementation.                                                          6
Completion Date.                                                       6
Actual and Expected Costs   ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Implementing Agencies .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Implementation by ELECTROPERU   .................                      7
Findings of the Studies.                                               9
Part A -- ELECTROPERU   ................                     9
Part B -- ELECTROLIMA   ................    12
Part C --HIDRANDINA  .................    12
Part D --CENTROMIN   .................    12
Part Z: ELECTROPERU Planning Unit .12
Performance of Consultants  ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   12
Timing and Allocation of Loan Proceeds .12
5. Project Results .13
Studies .13
Planning Unit .13
6. Institutional Performance .14
Borrower  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
Other Beneficiaries   ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
Bank  ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.I



Table of Contents (Continued)
7. Lessons to be Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               14
PART II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .   16
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Related Bank Lending   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Table 2:  Project Timetable .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Table 3:  Cumulative Loan Disbursements .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Table 4:  Project Implementation   ...  .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
Table 5: Actual & Forecast Project Cost & Financing .  . . . . . . .   21
Table 6:  Project Results .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Table 7:  Status of Loan Covenants .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Table 9:  Supervision Missions .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDAD, S.A. (ELECTROPERU)
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN 2018-PE
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power Engineer-
ing Project in Peru, for which Loan 2018-PE in the amount of US$25.0 million,
was approved on June 23, 1981. The borrower and primary beneficiary was
Electricidad del Peru, S.A. (ELECTROPERU), the national power company
responsible for sector planning and construction/operation of the national
transmission system and large generating works. Empresa Electricidad de Lima,
SA (ELECTROLIMA), Energia Hidroelectrica Andina, SA (HIDRANDINA), and Empresa
Minera del Centro (CENTROMIN) were the other beneficiaries. The loan was
intended to help finance: (i) preinvestment studies at the pre-feasibility and
feasibility stages for generation and transmission works, plus final design
and bidding documents, as required; and (ii) the equipment and training for a
planning unit at ELETROPERU.
During the course of the 1980s, Peru's relations with the
international financial community deteriorated. In 1987, relations between
the Government and the Bank ruptured. Beset with economic and political
problems, the administration of President Alan Garcia extended its debt-
service moratorium to include international financial/development
institutions, including the World Bank. Given this development, the Bank
suspended disbursements on all loans to Peru on May 5, 1987 and did not extend
the closing date of Loan 2018-PE past its revised deadline of June 30, 1987.
The last disbursement was made on July 7, 1987 and about US$5.96 million was
canceled. Thereafter, relations continued to worsen. In these circumstances,
contact between Bank and sector personnel lapsed until 1992 when, as a result
of improved Bank-Government relations, contact between Bank staff and sector
personnel was resumed. The improved relations reflected the efforts of the
administration of President Alberto Fujimori to reform the economy and to
normalize relations with external creditors. The Bank supported these efforts.
Starting in 1992, the Energy and Industry Operations Division of
Country Department I of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional OffIce pre-
pared Parts I and- III of the PCR. The PCR is based, inter alia, on Bank
sources: the President's Report; the Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements;
and supervision reports. ELETROPERU provided general information on the
project and relevant details for some studies as requested by the Bank, but
due to changes in personnel since 1987 was not able to prepare a final project
report.
The Borrower provided comments and correction to a draft of Parts I
and III. These comments were incorporated into the PCR as Part II.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU, SA (ELECTROPERU)
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN 2018-PE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
DEscription. Loan 2018-PE (US$25.0 million; 1981) helped to finance
& project consisting of: (i) an emergency program of pre-investment studies of
the options--generation and transmission--for meeting expected demand growth in
the mid- to late-1980s; and (ii) a technical assistance (TA) program to enhance
the planning capabilities of the principal national power company, Empresa
Publica de Electricidad del Peru, SA (ELECTROPERU). Identified in late 1980 in
connection with a preliminary Master Plan financed under Loan 1215-PE (US$36.0
million; 1976), the options included twelve hydroelectric projects, a
transmission  line,  and a thermal  plant.   The  feasibility  of a proposed
power/irrigation project was also to be reviewed. The studies were to be at the
pr--feasibility and feasibility levels, plus final designs and bidding documents,
as required (para. 3.05). The TA program included training and equipment (para.
3.06).
Objectivo. The first objective of the project was to accelerate
studies of hydroelectric projects and thereby minimize the need for new thermal
generation capacity (para. 3.04). It was expected that the power utilities would
base their generation expansion plans on the findings of these studies. The
second objective was to continue Bank efforts to strengthen the planning
institutions and capabilities by providing ELECTROPERU with the equipment, staff,
and training to carry out sector-wide planning responsibilities (para. 3.06).
Borrowers and Beneficiaries. The borrower and major beneficiary wae
ELECTROPERU. The other beneficiaries, to which ELECTROPERU relent some of the
proceeds of Loan 2018-PE, were Empresa Electricidad de Lima, SA (ELECTROLINA),
Empr-sa Minera del Centro del Peru, SA (CENTROMIN), and Energia Hidroelectrica
Andina, SA (HIDRANDINA) (para. 3.02). All are state-owned. Each company was
responsible for preparing its own studies.
Consultant. Consultants were contracted either to assist company
staffs in their efforts to prepare studies or to prepare the studies directly.
Consultants were also contracted to train the planning staff of ELECTROPERU. At
appraisal, the Bank found acceptable local procedures for selecting consultants
(paras. 3.08-3.10).
Relying on such procedures, ELECTROPERU, contrary to the
recommendation of Bank staff, pre-qualified about 100 consultants as a first stop
to preparing short lists of qualified consultants for contracts covering two
packages of studies.  This took about 15 months to complete (from late 1981



iii
through most of 1982). It took another 24 months (until the end of 1984), for
ELECTROPERU to conclude the process of evaluating consultant proposals and of
negotiating contracts.   This process involved consultant challenges to the
findings of selection committee, suspicion by ELECTROPERU's Board of Directors
about the integrity of the selection process, a call for the resubmission of
proposals, and a dispute between the Bank and ELECTROPERU on the mechanics of
negotiation. Work under these contracts began in 1985. The original project
completion and loan closing dates were, respectively, December 31, 1984 and June
30, 1985 (paras. 3.10, 4.01, and 4.04-4.10).
In contrast, the consultant selection process at ELECTROLIMA,
HIDRANDINA, and CENTROMIN went smoothly. The other beneficiaries followed the
Bank's consultant selection procedures, thereby promptly contracting suitable
consultants who carried out the studies on time (para. 4.03).
Timetable. The forecast completion date for the project was December
31, 1984. Work actually stopped in 1987 as a result of the decision (May 7,
1987) of the Bank to suspend, for country reasons, disbursements on all loans to
Peru. The Bank then decided not to extend the revised closing date of Loan 2018-
PE beyond June 30, 1987. Small amounts of work on four studies remained to be
completed.   ELECTROPERU secured only enough financing from the Corporacion
Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE) to meet outstanding payments due consultants.
Later, ELECTROPERU completed work on two studies. Work on two additional studies
ELECTROPERU has not been completed (para. 4.01).  Contributing to the slow
project execution by ELECTROPERU were, first, consultant selection problems, and,
second,  local currency financial constraints.   There also were technical/
operational problems (paras. 4.03-4.10).
Actual & Expected Cost.  The records of ELECTROPERU and the Bank
indicate that expenditures on the project amounted to about USS24.4 million.
This figure does not include the local currency costs for the studies contracted
by ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN, and HIDRANDINA, as records were not kept.  On the
assumption that the actual local currency costs incurred by ELECTROLIMA,
CENTROMIN, and HIDRANDINA equalled the "base" costs estimated at appraisal, the
cost of the project rises to about USS27.8 million as compared to about USS32.9
million forecast at appraisal.  Actual costs for the individual studies were
generally in line with appraisal forecasts (para. 4.02).
Results
Studies.    ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN,  and HIDRANDINA completed the
feasibility studies, final design, and bidding documents on four hydroprojects
as expected in 1982-1984 (Matucana, Yuracmayo, Yuncan, and Mayush--paras. 4.13-
4.15). After deleting studies of two projects (a thermal generating plant and
a transmission line), ELECTROPERU eventually completed all but two: Platanal and
Molloco (para. 4.12).
Only one project has been initiated as a result of the studles:
Yuracmayo--a reservoir dam under construction by ELECTROLIMA on the Rimac River



iv
(para. 5.01). The low level of study usage reflects the fact that both before
and after 1987, the power companies, due to low levels of tariffs and internal
cash generation, had severely curtailed investment expenditure. Underlying the
financing problems were a deteriorating macro-economic situation and the
political complexities of near civil war. It is uncertain what will happen to
these studies, given the discovery of major new natural gas reserves and the
emerging changes to the structure and organization of the sector (para. 5.02).
Having benefitted from Bank financing (Loan 2179-PE: Sixth Power
Project), ELECTROLIMA started construction of Yuracmayo in 1984.   However,
construction languished following the Bank's suspension of disbursements on all
loans to Peru in May 1987. In 1992, ELECTROLIMA restarted the Yuracmayo dam.
When completed, the dam will create a reservoir, the waters of which will be used
for dry-season energy generation and as drinking water in metropolitan Lima. The
currently expected completion date is 1994 (para. 4.13).
TA Program. This component achieved its objective of improving the
planning capabilities of ELECTROPERU.   The Planning Unit was established,
organized, and equipped; it continues to update the Master Plan for the
electricity sector. The training aspect of the loan had a smaller-than-expected
impact due to the large turnover of staff (para. 5.03).
Sustainabilitv.   Because the Master Plan, which the Planning Unit
at ELECTROPERU annually updates, provides the proper reference point for
discussion about expanding the system, the benefits from this part of the TA
program continue (para. 5.04). As for the studies, only one project--Yuracmayo--
has materialized (para. 4.13). If *ustainability is measured by the use of the
studies for the construction of works, one must, as of today, make a negative
judgement about the sustainability of the benefits of the studies.  However,
given the possibility of improved economic and political circumstances during the
1990. and the expansion of the system, this judgement may yet be reversed (para.
5.03).
Beneficiary Performance. The studies under the responsibility of
ELECTROPERU suffered substantial delay because of inefficient consultant
selection procedures which were clearly within its control. These studies later
were delayed due to the financing problems of ELECTROPERU--a sector-wide problem
which was the responsibility of the administrations of Presidents Belaunde and
Garcia (para. 6.01). The performance of the other beneficiaries was satisfactory
(para. 6.03).
Bank Performance.   At appraisal,  the Bank accepted consultant
selection procedures which later proved to be a source of delay.   It seems
apparent that the Bank staff did not understand the potential for delay inherent
in the procedures. However, acceptance was fully consistent with the spirit of
then current Bank-approved consultant selection guidelines, which laid primary
responsibility for selection and supervision of consultants on borrowers and
beneficiaries (paras. 3.08-3.10; and para. 6.04). During supervision, the Bank,
having agreed that local procedures would prevail, was not in a position to take



v
measures sufficient to overcome delays on the part of ELECTROPERU. All things
considered, the Bank did what it could to promote execution of the studies (para.
6.05).
Lessons Learned. The major sources of delay during implementation
were reliance on local consultant selection procedures at ELECTROPERU and local
currency constraints. If current Bank guidelines had prevailed at appraisal--
they require borrowers and beneficiaries to modify their selection procedures if
they Bank deems modification to be appropriate--Bank staff would probably have
required elimination of those parts of the local selection procedures which
caused delay. There are two lessons to be learned: First, at appraisal, local
consultant selection procedures should be carefully examined, especially with
respect to their operation  and impact  under actual  circumstances.    This
examination should give an indication of the efficiency of the borrower in this
activity. Second, the Bank should make every effort to ensure acceptance and use
of its consultant selection procedures by the borrower/beneficiary (para. 7.01).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU, SA (ELECTROPERU)
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN 2018-PE
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
Project Name         : Power Engineering Project
Borrower             : Empresa Publica de Electricidad del Peru, SA (ELECTRO-
PERU)
Beneficiaries:       t ELECTROPERU, Empresa Electricidad de Lima (ELECTROLINA),
Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru, SA (CENTROMIN),
Energia Hidroelectrica Andina, SA (HIDRANDINA)
Loan Number          : Loan 2018-PE
Loan Amount          : US$25.0 million (amount cancelled: US$5.96 million)
Loan Dates           : Approval: June 23, 1981; Effectiveness: February 25,
1982; Closing: June 30, 1987 (two years late);
Last Disbursement: July 7, 1987
RVP Unit             s Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country              : Peru
Sector               : Electric Power
2.   Backaround
Economic, Political & Sector Overview
2.01                 Between 1980 and 1987, Peruvian power officials, together
with the staff of the World Bank, prepared and executed the studies and technical
assistance program which comprised the project. To evaluate their performance,
it is important to understand the context of turbulent economic, political, and
sector conditions.
2.02                 The 1980. were a lost decade for Peru. The administrations
of Presidents Belaunde and Garcia relied on an inconsistent, interventionist
policy mix--stimulating consumption expenditure and reducing investment
expenditure--which eventually caused the economy to collapse in recession,
soaring inflation, rising budgetary deficits, and suspension of foreign debt-
service payments,- Complicating the economic problems was a crisis of confidence
in the organs of government due to civil disturbance and the drug trade.
2.03                 The 1980s were also hard on the power sector,  as the
administrations treated the sector more as a strategic agent for implementing
public policy--distributing subsidies or controlling inflation--than as a
business enterprise.   Such treatment  resulted  in progressive  regulatory/
institutional weaknesses, deficient management and operations, inadequate tariff
levels, financial crisis and severely restricted investment expenditure. On May
7, 1987, the Bank, for country reasons, suspended disbursements on all loans to
Peru, including Loan 2018-PE, the closing date of which was not extended beyond
the revised deadline of June 30, 1987. The result of such suspension and closing



2
was that work stopped before completion of small parts of five studies, three of
which ELECTROPERU later completed.
Resources and Organization, 1981
2.04                In 1981,  when Loan 2018-PE was approved,  economically
exploitable hydro resources totalled about 60,000 MW, of which only 1,654 MW were
being used. Hydropower and forest resources were the most significant potential
sources of primary energy. Natural gas reserves were estimated to be small: one
to two trillion cubic feet.
2.05                Public power companies supplied about 70% of the total
electric energy requirement; captive plants serving industrial and mining
installations supplied the remainder. The two most important sector operating
entities were Empresa Publica de Electricidad del Peru, SA (ELECTROPERU) and
Empresa Electricidad de Lima (ELECTROLIMA). The principal power grid was the
central-north interconnected system.
2.06                The Electricity Law of 1972 made the state the principal
authority in the power sector. Under the law, the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MME)  "...was  given  responsibility  for.. .policy  formulation,  for  the
authorization of investments, and for regulation and tariff setting."1  MME had
responsibility for coordinating all energy planning activities and for setting
prices in the energy sector. With respect to the power sector, the Directorate
of Electricity (DGE) within MME carried out the regulatory and other functions.
Major investment decisions were taken at higher levels of Government.
Operational responsibility was divided among various public enterprises under
MME's aegis.   ELECTROPERU,  the national power company,  was charged with
developing power generation projects--planning, engineering, constructing and
operating all new generating facilities larger than 10 MW--plus development and
construction of the national transmission network.   Further, it was legally
responsible for the master planning function which was being exercised by DGE.
ELECTROLIMA served the market of metropolitan Lima; the national oil company was
responsible for producing and distributing petroleum products.
2.07                The Bank judged DGE to be a weak entity due to excessive
turnover of high-level personnel--the result of low salaries.  An example of
weakness was the delay attending the execution of a preliminary Master Plan which
the Bank helped finance (Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project). "The power sector
master plan...was not completed until late 1980, in part because of DGE's lack
of technical and administrative capacity, and is only now being adopted by MME
and the principal--utility companies".    Inadequate salary levels had also
negatively affected the performance of ELECTROPERU. 3
World Bank CWB): Report and Recomnendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Devetornent to the Executive Directors on a Prooosed Loan to the Envresa de Electricidad deL Peru, S.A. with
the Guarantees of the Republic of Peru for a Power Engineering rroiect (Report No. P-3075-PE), dated June 1,
1981, p. 11, pra. 46. Hereafter, referred to as PR.
I  , p. 11, para. 47. Also, WB: *Issues-Decision HemorandrvA, dated February 9, 1981, Anmex 1, p. 5.
para. 11.
I  , p. 12, para. 48.



3
2.08                 During  the  1970s,  MME  received  considerable  technical
assistance with respect to energy planning: an energy balance study (UNDP, 1976),
an assessment of hydro resources (US Government, 1979), a hydro survey (German
Government, 1979), and a preliminary Master Plan (1980) which the Bank reviewed
and helped finance (para. 2.07). Based on a market study (also financed by Loan
1215-PE: Fifth Power Project) which showed demand growing at 8% per year. through
1990, MME concluded, in consultation with the Bank, that the speedy preparation
of pre-investment studies for hydro (and other) projects was a priority task if
the power sector were to construct the facilities needed to meet expected demand
growth at the end of the decade.
2.09                 Bank Power  Lendina.   The  Bank  has made  eight  loans,
amounting to US$222.2 million, for power development in Peru (Part III, Table 1).
Project execution under the first four loans was satisfactory, but disbursements
of the fifth loan initially progressed at a slower rate than expected due to a
sharp reduction in demand growth in the late 1970s.  However, by 1980 demand
picked up and the project was completed in 1982.  In November 1986, the Bank
withdrew Loan 2603-PE (Power Engineering II) after determining that the
Government, which had not signed the loan agreement in the sixteen months
following approval, was not very interested in the corresponding technical
assistance project. In May 1987, the Bank suspended disbursements on all loans
to Peru and later closed Loans 2018-PE (Power Engineering Project) and 2179-PE
(Sixth Power Project) before completion of the corresponding projects.
3.   Preparation
3.01                 Sector Planning.   In 1980, MME/DGE was carrying out the
power-sector master planning function which was legally the responsibility of
ELECTROPERU. In connection with the slow preparation of a master plan financed
by Loan 1215-PE (Fifth Power Project), MME/DGE had demonstrated a lack of
administrative capacity. The Bank and the Government agreed that the preparation
of an adequate inventory of pre-investment studies and the proper discharge of
the master planning function required the transfer of such activities away from
MME/DGE--that is, the operating companies, including ELECTROPERU, should
undertake the preparation of pre-investment studies (para. 3.04) and ELECTROPERU
should assume the master-planning function (para. 3.06).   This concept was
central to the project.   The problem of low salaries at ELECTROPERU, it was
expected, would be addressed by new legislation providing public enterprises with
sufficient autonomy to resolve staffing and managerial problems.
3.02                 Relendina Arrangements.  The borrower was to be ELECTROPERU,
which would use -US$18.5 million of the loan proceeds and would relend the
remaining proceeds on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to
ELECTROLIMA ((USS 0.9 million), Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru, SA (CENTROMIN
-- US$3.0 million), and Energia Hidroelectrica Andina, SA (HIDRANDINA -- US$2.6
million). The latter three companies entered into Project Agreements with the
Bank, and signed subsidiary loan contracts with ELECTROPERU.
3.03                 Timetable. Project preparation proceeded quickly.  The Bank
and the Government began discussing the project in early 1980 and appraisal took
place in December 1980. Negotiations took place in May 1981; approval and loan
signing occurred on June 23, 1981 and August 19, 1981, respectively; and the loan
became effective on February 25, 1982 (Part III, Table 2).



4
Proiect Obiectives and Descrivtion
3.04                 First Obiective.  Given the lengthy time required to plan
and implement hydroelectric projects, the first objective of the loan was to
accelerate the preparation of pre-investment studies at the pre-feasibility and
feasibility levels for twelve hydroelectric projects and one thermal project with
an aggregate generating capacity of about 1,100 MW of generating capacity. The
project would also provide for final designs and bidding documents, as required.
It was expected that the studies would establish the basis for generation
expansion with minimum reliance on thermal capacity.
3.05                 To meet the above objective, local power authorities, in
consultation with Bank staff, selected the following projects for study--projects
first identified in the 1980 Master Plan (para. 2.08):
Part A: ELECTROPERU
(1) final design and bidding documents (FD/BD) for El Chorro (150 MW);
(2) feasibility studies (FS) for: (a) Quishuarani (30 MW); (b) Molloco (340
KW); (c) Platanal (80 MW); (d) reservoir dams (for water storage capacity)4
on the Rio Santa (upstream from Canon del Pato hydroplant) and the Rio Chili
(upstream from Charcani hydro plant); (d) a fossil fuel-fired generating
station of up to 200 MW serving Lima in 1986 or 1987; (e) a transmission
line for northern Peru; and
(3) prefeasibility study (PS) for: Rio Huaura (339 MW); and (4) review of
the existing PS of the Olmos power and irrigation project.
Part B: ELECTROLIMA
(1) FS and BD for: (a) a reservoir dam, serving the Matucana hydroelectric
plant; and (b) a reservoir dam at Yuracmayo on the Rio Rimac (upstream from
the Matucana plant).
Part C: HIDRANDINA
(1) FS and BD for: (a) a dam for water storage and regulation on the Rio
Paticilca (upstream from the Cahua hydroplant); and (b) a hydroplant called
Cahua II or Mayush (40 MW); and
Part D: CENTRONIN
(1) FD/BD for: Yuncan (120 MW).
Nine of the hydroelectric project studies (about 800 MW) would serve the central-
north syotem; two others, Molloco and the Rio Chili reinforcement (about 300 MW),
would serve the southwest; and, one, Quishuarani (about 30 MW) was located in the
Reservoir dans were to provide the meas for additional water storage and energy, but they were not to
provide facilities for additionat generation capacity.



5
southeast. Each study was to be executed by the company which was later expected
to construct the correBponding project.
3.06                  Second Obiective.  The second objective of the loan was to
continue efforts, begun under Loan 1215-PE, to strengthen master planning for the
sector by financing the purchase of equipment and training for a planning unit
at ELECTROPERU--Part E of the Project. Dated covenants in the Guarantee and Loan
Agreements provided for, respectively, the transfer of MME's planning staff,
equipment and materials to ELECTROPERU and the corresponding establishment of the
master planning unit within the organizational structure of ELECTROPERU.
Consultants
3.07                   ole. Consultants were to be retained either to assist the
staffs of the respective companies in the preparation of the studies or to carry
out the studies directly. Consultants were also to be retained to organize and
advise the new planning group in ELECTROPERU (para. 3.08).
3.08                  Selection and Negotiations.  Selection of consultants was
to be in accordance with Peruvian procedures. The ER provided no details on local
procedures beyond stating that they required ". a competition on the substantive
aspects of the consultants' proposals... " and that "...the procedures were
acceptable to the Bank" 5. Given Bank acceptance of local procedures, the Loan
Agreement did not include a schedule setting forth consultant selection
procedures and did not refer to then current Bank guidelines 6
3.09                  The  decision  to  accept  local  procedures  proved  to  be
important in a negative sense. Such procedures, which involved a lengthy pre-
qualification exercise, became, in the case of ELECTROPERU, a major source of
delay in the selection/negotiation process.   An additional source of delay was
the exercise by the Board of Directors of ELECTROPERU of the right to review the
recommendations of the consultant selection committee (para. 4.01).
3.10                  Bank staff devoted at least some time to examining local
consultant selection procedures, but it appears that staff did not fully under-
stand the potential for delay inherent in those procedures.  Supporting this
judgement are: (i) the absence of reference to consultant selection procedures
UB: P, p. 18, para. 73.
When the project was appraised (December 1980), the Bank relled on consultant selection procedures set
forth in "Uses of Conwultants by the World Bank and Its Borrowers" (dated April 1974) and recommended their use
by borrowers. The Iank mode It plain that Its generaL ruLe was to Leave to its borrowers the responsibility
for selecting and supervising consultants and that it encouraged, but did not require, the borrower to adopt
its (the Bank's) procedures ("Uses", pares. 1.21 and 1.22).
In August 1981, the Bank issued "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" which
repeated, in essence, the consultant selection process outlined in the predecessor patphLet. However, the new
"Guidelines" reflected a major difference: prior to the Invitation of proposals, the Sank required the
beneficiary to: (1) submit for Bank review its consultant selection procedure; and (0i) modify that procedure
in those cases that the Bank deemed appropriate ("Guidelines", pars. 2.21). From a legal point of view, the
Bank is the final interpreter of the "Guidelines"; and current practice does not include a pre-qualification
process as a first step to preparing a short list.



6
in the 'Issues-Decision Memorandum' 7; and (ii) the expected signing dates of
consultant contracts--all but one contract was expected to be signed between June
1981 and March 1982. 8
3.11                 The  other  beneficiaries  did  not  carry  out  a  pre-
qualification exercise.   Instead,  they followed Bank procedures; and their
studies were completed more or less on time (para. 4.03).
3.10                 Completion Date and Cost.  Following contract signing (June
1981-March 1982), the project timetable called for completion of all but one
study between September 1981 and December 1982.  All work was expected to be
finished by June 30, 1984, and the Loan Agreement set the project completion date
as December 31, 1984. The expected cost, including contingencies, was US$40.7
million, of which US$25.0 million (61%) represented foreign currency costs. The
proceeds of the Bank loan would cover the foreign currency cost; the
beneficiaries would cover the local-currency costs (US$15.7 million). of the
total cost: (i) studies of the hydroprojects would account for 79%; (ii)
feasibility study of the thermal plant, including preparation of bidding
documents, would account for 14%; (iii) the transmission-line study would account
for 5% of project cost; and (iv) the setting up and equipping of the planning
group in ELECTROPERU would account for 2%. The total cost of the pre-investment
studies financed under the project were expected to be less than 2% of the
estimated cost of the related investment projects.
3.11                 Financial Issues. Although the financial performance of the
sector was poor at loan signing, Bank staff believed a power engineering loan was
not the appropriate instrument to seek agreement on satisfactory financial goals
in the sector.  The PR mentions that the Government was likely to seek Bank
financing for some of the major hydroelectric projects prepared under the pre-
investment studies of the present loan, at which time the Bank would then have
the opportunity to review the sector finances.
4. Implementation
4.01                 Completion Date.  The original project completion and loan
closing dates--respectively, December 31, 1984 and June 30, 1985--were pushed
back to May 7, 1987 and June 30, 1987 (Part III, Table 2). In early 1987, Bank
staff recommended extending the loan closing date to June 30, 1988 in order to
finish those studies which were not quite completed, but as has already been
stated (para. 2.03), the Bank, for country reasons, suspended disbursements on
all loans to Peru on May 7, 1987 and did not extend the closing date of the loan
past it. revised deadline of June 30, 1987.9 Part III, Table 3 compares actual
and forecast cumulative disbursements of Loan 2018-PE. Since work on the studies
stopped as a result of the suspension (Part III, Table 4), it is convenient to
date project completion as May 7, 1987.  At that time, work on five studies
7 InternaL lank Memo, dated February 9, 1981.
W: PR Amex V p. 36.
In 1988, the Bank cLosed the last loan supporting the power sector in Peru: 2179-PE (US$81.2 miltion,
1982).



7
remained to be completed.  Later, three studies were completed: designs for
Quitaracsa, Canon del Pato expansion and Huaura. Studies of the Platanal
hydroproject and Molloco scheme never progressed beyond the pre-feasibility
level.
4. 02                Actual and Expected Costs.  The actual project cost amounts
to about US$24.4 million.  This figure, however, is not comparable with the
appraisal forecast (US$40.7 million) because not all of the contemplated studies
were completed or carried out and because there iu only partial data for local
costs (Part III, Table 5). Efforts to obtain such data have proved unsuccessful.
If one adjusts the appraisal forecast to exclude those studies which were not
carried out and if one assumes that the missing actual local-cost data are no
higher than that forecast for the base cost, then the forecast and actual costs
are, respectively, US$32.9 million and US$27.8 million.
4.03                 Implementing  Agencies.    ELECTROLIMA,  HIDRANDINA,  and
CENTROMIN completed the consultant selection process promptly because they
elected to follow Bank procedures--that is, rather than pre-qualifying as a first
step to preparing a short list, they relied on their experience, plus
consultation with the Bank, to prepare a short list. The studies under their
supervision progressed satisfactorily--that is, they were completed in 1982 and
1984. There were no substantial cost overruns, with the exception of the studies
carried out by ELECTROLIMA, whose costs were higher than estimated due to design
work which was more extensive than expected.
Implementation by ELECTROPERU
4.04                 Overview.  Speedy consultant selection and study execution
did not prevail  at ELECTROPERU.   During the three years  following  loan
effectiveness (February 25, 1982), the pace of execution of the different studies
varied, but most studies were behind schedule.  In October 1982, Bank staff
reported that contracts had been let for three studies.  The Olmos study was
underway; but the Rio Santa and El Chorro studies, which had been contracted in
March 1982 to a single consultant, languished until 1983 for lack of adequate
counterpart funding.10
4.05                 Contracts for the remaining five hydro studies were not
migned until late 1984 due to, first, a lengthy exercise to pre-qualify
consultants; second, multiple disputes and challenges by the consultants
concerning the ranking of study proposals; third, intervention by the Board of
Directors of ELECTROPERU in the selection procedure; and, fourth, a disagreement
between the Board and the Bank over a proposed change with respect to the
mechanics of negotiations.
4.06                 Once the remaining contracts were signed, the consultants
began their work in 1985, but an acute shortfall of counterpart financing caused
progress to move at a slower pace than would have been the case if ELECTROPERU
had not experienced financial stringency.
'o Now to Files, dated October 4, 1982.



8
4.07                Pre-cualification.  The first problem appeared in late 1981
and occupied most of 1982.  Due to a lack of business, there was substantial
competition among the consultants to win contracts: about one hundred (100)
firms, some quite unqualified, expressed interest in preBenting proposals. In
some instances, local political officials placed pressure on ELECTROPERU for
special  consideration of  favored firms.   To achieve  transparency in the
consultant selection process, ELECTROPERU decided to pre-qualify the consultants.
The Bank informed ELECTROPERU that Bank rules did not require such a procedure,
advised against its use, and recommended preparation of a short-list for a single
contract covering all studies not already contracted (para. 4.04) based on
management's (ELECTROPERU's) knowledge of the technical qualifications of
interested firms ll  Ignoring this advice, management proceeded with the pro-
qualification exercise which took some fifteen months to complete (December
1982). Thereafter, ELECTROPERU proposed--and the Bank accepted--(a) a short list
of consultants for a two-study package--Huaura (PS) and Platanal (FS); (b) a
short list of consultants for a three-study package--Molloco (FS), Chili (FS),
and Quishuarani (FS/BD); (c) terms of reference for each study package; (d)
guidelines for the preparation and evaluation of the study proposals; and (e)
rules on the mechanics of negotiation. Under these rules, the proposals would
be ranked on the basis of merit, and negotiations for each Dackaae would be
carried out sequentially on the basis of rank.  ELECTROPERU then invited the
short-listed consultants to furnish proposals for each study package, having
provided them with terms of reference, guidelines, and rules.
4.08                Consultant Disputes and Board Review.   Lengthening the
evaluation process for both study packages were disputes and challenges to the
ranking of proposals by various consultants. These delays were compounded and
extended as a result of review and intervention in the selection process by
ELECTROPERU's Board of Directors. These disputes and interventions continued
from 1983 into 1984. ELECTROPERU signed a contract with a single consultant for
the three-study package on November 23, 1984 and a separate contract for Platanal
(FS) and Huaura (PS) with another consultant on December 27, 1984.
4.09                Bank files provide a comprehensive picture of the delays
attending the selection of consultants for the two-study package--Huaura (PS) and
Platanal (FS).  In early 1983, a committee composed of top ELECTROPERU staff
received, evaluated and ranked study proposals provided by the short-listed
consultants. At the end of May 1983, ELECTROPERU's Board of Directors set aside
the first evaluation of proposals on the grounds that two of the proposals did
not comply with legal requirements and called for fresh proposals from the same
consultants. There were complaints to the Bank on the part of consultants about
the action of the Board. According to the general manager, the real reason was
suspicion about the integrity of the evaluation process. Given such suspicion,
the  Bank did  not  object. 2   In connection  with  the  second evaluation,
ELECTROPERU established a procedure to review each proposal's compliance with
legal requirements before evaluation and expanded the evaluating commission from
five to nine members. By December 1983, the evaluation commission had completed
" WB: Letter to ELECTROPERU, dated August 12, 1981; telex, dated October 6, 1981; teLex, dated Janury
5, 1982; and letter, dated March 26, 1982.
'2 Internal Bank Memo, dated March 1, 1984.



9
its work, the results of which the Board sent to the Bank for review. The Bank
found satisfactory the evaluation procedure and its results.
4.10                 Bank-Board Disagreement. In January 1984 the Board proposed
to set aside the second evaluation on minor technical grounds and to change the
mechanics of negotiation: substituting separate and sequential negotiations for
each study with the two leading consultants in place of sequential negotiations
for the two-study package with the consultants ranked by order of merit of their
respective proposals. The Bank insisted (March 1984) that ELECTROPERU adhere to
the  original  rules.13   Eventually,  the  Bank  agreed  to  the  proposal  of
ELECTROPERU as a result of the first-ranked consultant's indication of
disinterest in the Platanal study.14
4.11                 Financing Problems.  By the end of 1984, ELECTROPERU had
signed contracts for all studies; by early 1985, the consultants had begun their
work, but thereafter it moved slowly due to counterpart funding problems.
Although the loan had no financial covenants, the financial performance of
ELECTROPERU during the 1980s was poor. The Government, for political reasons,
actually lowered tariffs in real terms.  For example, the December 1986 nominal
rate level was only 6% higher than in December 1985, although cumulative
inflation for the year was 62%.
Findincs of the Studies
4.12                 Part A.   The following summarizes the findings of the
studies carried out by ELECTROPERU:
i.        Rio Santa and El Chorro:        In March 1982, ELECTROPERU
contracted a consultant to carry out a study of the Rio Santa
watershed and the El Chorro hydroplant to be completed in 1984-1985.
The study was to consist of: (i) an inventory of the resources of the
watershed; (ii) pre-feasibility studies of the system Canon del Pato-
Quitaracsa-El Chorro; (iii-iv) completion of the feasibility study and
design of the El Chorro hydroplant; and (v) feasibility study of the
Quitaracsa poundage and expansion of the Canon del Pato hydro-
plant.15    Due to a local currency *hortfall, work did not start
until early 1983. Following discovery of a geologically active fault
(Pashma) crossing the headrace tunnel of El Chorro, the consultants
urged the study of alternative conceptual designs, and in 1985
ELECTROPERU agreed to a reformulation of the terms of reference and
related work plan, i.e., work would be carried out in three stages.
Before-completion (September 1984) of the inventory and assessment of
the Rio Santa watershed (first stage), the consultants began work
(April 1984) on the second stage--that is, alternatives to El Chorro
(PF), expansion of the Canon del Pato hydroplant (FS), and the
Quitaracsa reservoir  (FS).   Draft versions of the corresponding
Bank telex to ELECTROPERU, dated March 13, 1984.
" Letter of ELECTROPERU to the Bank, dated Septemtber 11, 1984. Contents of Letter s4upLamentad by
interview with Bank staff.
1 Part 11 includes detaiLs on the five-stage study of the Rio Santa watershed.



10
reports were circulated in April 1986 and were complete (or nearly so)
when work on the project stopped. In January 1987, the consultants
began work on the third stage: definitive studies at the design level
of the Quitaracsa reservoir and the Canon del Pato hydroplant. These
studies were not complete when the Bank suspended disbursements (May
7, 1987).   Expenditure for these studies and designs was USS7.9
million.  Sources of financing were: World Bank, US$5.0 million of
foreign-currency costs; Corporacion Financera de Desarrollo (COFIDE),
US$0.9 million of foreign-currency cost; and ELECTROPERU, US$2.0
million of local-currency costs. Following the suspension and closing
of Loan 2018-PE, ELECTROPERU was periodically able to finance
additional work on the definitive studies of the Quitaracsa reservoir
and the Canon del Pato hydroplant and reports having finished them
(Part II).
ii.       Huaura River:  Consultants commenced this pro-feasibility
study in May 1985.  There was a five-month delay in 1986 due to
contractual problems with the subcontractors for the topographic
survey.  The study was completed in late December 1987, twenty-one
months behind the contractual completion date (March 4, 1986) and
almost three years behind the appraisal estimate (December 1984). The
principal reason for late completion after contract signing was a
counterpart funding deficit in 1985 which delayed basic geological
investigations. The pre-feasibility studies, which were generally of
good quality, identified five good sites totalling some 530 MW of
installed capacity and about 2,000 GWh/year. The cost of the studies
was just under US$1.2 million; the sources of financing were: World
Bank, US$0.9 million of foreign-currency costs; and ELECTROPERU,
US$0.3 million of local-currency costs. The consultant recommended
that a feasibility-level study be carried out at the site of Chevez
Izquierda.16 ELECTROPERU is still seeking funding for such a study.
iii.      Platanal Hvdro-Dlant:    Consultants commenced this study
(FS) in February 1985.  After work began, a budgetary shortfall in
1985 delayed the start of geological investigations and was primarily
responsible for late completion. The completion date for the interim
feasibility study was March 1987, six and one-half months after the
contractual completion date. According to this report, the Platanal
plant would have an installed capacity of 140 MW and primary energy
would be around 787 GWh/year.  Costs of theme studies amounted to
US$2.0 million; sources of financing were: the World Bank, US$1.4
million; -and ELECTROPERU, US$0.6 million. The consultant recommended
the preparation of a final feasibility study; ELECTROPERU is seeking
financing.
iv.       Chili  River.  molloco   and  Ouishuarani  Hydro-olants:
Consultants began work on these studies (FS) in March 1985.
Technical/operational problems related to geological investigations
were the primary source of delay after work began. The Chili River
According to ELECTROPERU, the irstaLled capacity and average anual generation of the hydro-pLant at
Chevez lzquierda would be, respectively, 150 NW and 915 GIA (see Part 11).



11
regulation study included construction of reservoirs, increased intake
capacity and diversion schemes and transfer of water from other basins
through pumping.   A draft of the final report was delivered to
ELECTROPERU in March 1987.  The Molloco scheme considered the use of
a 2,000 meter head.  Due to topography and access conditions, the
upper section in all alternative schemes had to be designed with a
head of 1,400 meters and the lower section with a head of about 700
meters. The pre-feasibility study was scheduled for delivery in April
1987. The study of the Quishuarani hydro site considered a two-stage
development: (1) first stage: installed capacity of 90 MW producing
average annual generation of 458 GWh; and (2) second stage: 135 MW
installed capacity producing average annual generation of 619 GWh.
The hydro project would provide electricity to the south and south-
east region and also benefit the agricultural activities through
increased flood control and regulation in the Vilcanota valley. The
consultant recommended the preparation of final feasibility studies;
ELECTROPERU is seeking financing. This study was completed in March
1987.   The cost of these studies was US$7.3 million; sources of
financing were: the World Bank, US$5.7 million; and ELECTROPERU,
US$1.6 million.
V.        Olmos Evaluation: Having reviewed the feasibility study of
the Olmos multi-purpose scheme (power and irrigation components), the
consultant concluded that, while technically feasible, the scheme had
a very low global internal rate of return.   The evaluation was
completed in May 1983, eleven months late. Disbursements from Loan
2018-PE for this study amounted to just under US$0.2 million.
ELECTROPERU provided no data on the local-currency costs of this
study.
vi.       Thermal Plant: The development plan issued in October, 1983
indicated that the decline in demand growth meant that the quick
construction of a thermal plant had lost priority, and could be
replaced by a hydro-plant. However, the project was kept on a stand-
by basis in case lack of financing for a hydro-plant would require a
last-minute thermal solution. The option of using natural gas of the
Zorritos area (northern Peru) was considered and discarded due to
uncertainties with regard to the amount of gas and the cost of further
exploration.  Therefore, ELECTROPERU did not use any of tho funds
allocated for study of a thermal option.
vii. -   Transmission Line (Truiillo-Piural:  Having obtained the
financing for the line from Spain, the Government considered the study
of its economic feasibility as not needed.17   The study of the
transmission line was dropped from the project, but the Bank did not
cancel funds allocated for the study to allow reallocation in case
other studies experienced a shortage of counterpart funds or cost
overruns.
e      .              !                 ps 
" 'SL.prvigion Rsor?, dated Januar 1,1981, AYY~X7-2, p. 1, prr 2.



12
4.13                 Part B: ELECTROLIMA.  Studies of the Matucana hydroplant and
the reservoir dam at Yuracmayo were satisfactorily completed in 1982, and final
design and bidding documents for Yuracmayo were completed in November 1984.
Partial financing for constructing the Yuracmayo reservoir dam was included in
Loan 2179-PE (1982; US$81.2 million). The contract was divided into two lots and
a local contractor started construction of Lot I in January 1984. The pre-
selection process for contracting Lot II was completed in December 1986;
construction was supposed to start in September 1987 and be completed in March
1990.  However, financial difficulties required ELECTROLIMA to defer further
construction until 1992. The expected completion date is 1994. Disbursements
from Loan 2018-PE for Part B amounted to about US$1.3 million; but there are no
actual data on local-currency costs.
4.14                 PART C: HIDRANDINA.  The feasibility study of the Mayush
hydroplant was satisfactorily completed in January, 1984.  A pre-feasibility
study for the Tumac hydro-plant carried out in conjunction with the Mayush study
confirmed that the best utilization of the waters of the Rapay River is through
a low diversion into the Pativilca River, despite the additional construction it
would involve. Final design and bidding documents were completed in early 1985,
and a summary of the final design study was issued in January 1986.
Disbursements for Part C amounted to just over US$2.0 million.  There are no
actual data on local-currency costs.
4.15                 PART D: CENTROMIN. This component, which included the final
design and bidding documents for CENTROMIN's 120 KW Yuncan project, was completed
satisfactorily in June 1982. Disbursements for Part D amounted to just under
US$2.5 million. There are no data on local-currency costs.
4.16                 PART  E:  ELECTROPERU  Plannino  Unit.    Part  E  included
additional equipment, training and an advisor to assist in the establishment and
operation of a master planning unit (paras 2.07-.08 and 3.04). Procurement of
material and equipment was through international shopping. At the time of loan
closing, disbursements from Loan 2018-PE amounted to just under US$0.02 million;
and ELECTROPERU had not procured all items considered necessary. The now unit
hired an advisor/consultant for four months, approved and financed by the Bank,
to help improve ELECTROPERU's planning methodology, and to organize the updating
of the Master Plan. Despite the loss of its more experienced staff due to low
salaries, the Planning Unit successfully completed its tasks, and, at the time
of loan closing, was working on updating the Master Plan for that year. In fact,
ELECTROPERU has continued to update the Master Plan every year.
4.17               -Performance of Consultants.   All  consultants performed
satisfactorily, with important participation of local consultants under joint
venture arrangements. The consultants working for ELECTROLIMA on the Yuracmayo
dam revised their report and bidding documents to achieve the standard. the Bank
expects of international consultants. The Board of Independent Consultants made
useful recommendations for designing the safety aspects of the dam.
4.18                 Timing and Allocation of Loan Proceeds.   Due to delayed
project execution, disbursements from Loan 2019-PE, which amounted to USS19.04
million, were delayed (Part III, Table 3). The Bank cancelled the undisbursed
balance of US$5.96 million. An amendment to Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement,



13
reallocated USS 800,000 from Category 6 (Unallocated) to Category 3 (Part B:
ELECTROLIMA), to pay for the consultants. Actual and forecast allocation of
disbursements by category were:
Category                  Actual     Forecast       Difference
(in US$ millions)
1. Parts A & E (consultant services)  13.24          13.70       -2.6
2. Part E (goods & services)            0.02          0.30      -93.3
3. Part B (consultant services)         1.28          0.70       82.9
4. Part C (consultant services)         2.00          2.00         0.0
S. Part D (consultant services)         2.50          2.50         0.0
6. Unallocated                          0.00          5.80          NA
Total                               19.04         25.00      -23.8
5. Prolect Results
5.01                Studies.   Except for the final phases of two studies--
Platanal and Molloco--the objective of preparing pre-investment studies war
accomplished (if not on an accelerated basis--para. 3.04). The larger, if un-
stated, objective of adding generating and/or water storage capacity based on the
findings of these studies has not yet materialized, except for the reservoir dam
at Yuracmayo, which is under construction (para. 4.13). Since 1987, regulatory,
financial, political and other problems materialized, severely limiting sector
investment expenditures and deferring the construction of new generating capacity
(para. 2.03).   At appraisal, no indicators were established to measure the
project (Part III, Table 6).
5.02                 It is uncertain what will happen to those hydroprojects, the
studies of which were completed and which are ready to be executed. The MMZ
continues to be responsible for overall energy sector planning under the Law of
Concessions and must review the studies in the light of new energy options. That
is, MHE will have to undertake comparative studies to determine (i) whether
electricity generation should be based on natural gas or conventional thermal and
hydro sources; and (ii) the benefits and risks of developing each project. The
natural gas option, especially after the discovery of large reserves at Camisea
has led to public debate about suggestions to build a gas pipeline along the
coast. While the MME remains responsible for planning, it is not clear what the
results of such review will be, which entity will be in a position to implement
the findings of the studies following their review, or when, if ever, these
studies will lead to the construction of new hydro generating or water storage
capacity.
5.03                 If the *ustainability of the benefits of these studies is
measured by their use for the construction of works, one must, as of today, make
a negative judgement about the *ustainability of benefits. However, given the
possibility of improved economic and political circumstances during the 1990. and
the expansion of the power system, this judgement may yet be reversed.
5.04                 Plannina Unit.  There was more success in achieving the
second objective, the establiahment of the ELECTROPERU Planning Unit.   it
continues to update annually the Master Plan for the sub-sector and prepare
demand forecasts and generation expansion development plans (para. 4.16). Hence
the benefits from this part of the TA program continue.



14
6.   Institutional Performance
6.01                 Borrower.  Because of its inefficient consultant selection
procedures and financing problems (paras. 4.04-4.11), ELECTROPERU substantially
delayed the contracting and execution of the studies under its responsibility.
The Board of Directors could have taken corrective action to speed the consultant
selection process; the Government was responsible for the deteriorating finances
of ELECTROPERU.   ELECTROPERU complied with the major covenants of the Loan
Agreement (Part III, Table 7).
6.02                 In the process of becoming the sector holding company,
ELECTROPERU implemented improvements in some technological, administrative and
financial areas,  although managerial problems persisted.   The work of the
Planning Unit was considered a success.
6.03                 Other  Beneficiaries.    The  satisfactory  performance  of
ELECTROLIMA, HIDRANDINA, and CENTROMIN justified the decision to make them
responsible for the execution of their project studies.
6.04                 Bank.  At appraisal, the Bank correctly combined financing
of pre-investment studies to meet the immediate needs of the sector with
assistance to improve the technical, institutional and planning capacity of the
sector.   The  Bank  examined  and  accepted  the  local  consultant  selection
procedures, which later proved to be a source of delay. It seems apparent that
Bank staff did not understand the potential for delay inherent in the local
procedures. However, acceptance was fully consistent with the spirit of the then
current Bank-approved consultant selection procedures.   These laid primary
responsibility for selecting and supervising consultants on borrowers and
beneficiaries (paras. 3.08-3.10).
6.05                 During supervision,  the Bank,  having agreed that local
consultant selection procedures would prevail, was not in a position to take
measures sufficient to overcome the selection delays at ELECTROPERU. Once the
contracts were signed, except for delays due to funding problems in 1985, the
consultants proceeded with their work in satisfactory fashion.   All things
considered, the Bank did what it could to promote the execution of the studies.
6.06                 Despite  its  increasing  concern  with  the  deteriorating
financial situation of the sector (low tariffs and low rates of return), the Bank
made a substantial offort to sustain project momentum and maintain a constructive
relationship with ELECTROPERU.   In support of the Second Power Engineering
Project, the Bank signed another technical assistance loan (2603-PE; 1985) to
support the process of regionalization, to improve the management of ELECTROPERU
and to improve the sector efficiency. Bank efforts to integrate and coordinate
all aspects of concern to the power sector, including organizational, managerial,
technical and planning aspects, had some beneficial impact on the sector. An
example of such a beneficial impact is the Planning Unit in ELECTROPERU.
7. Lessons Learned
7.01                 The major sources of delays during implementation were
consultant selection procedures at ELECTROPERU and local currency constraints.
Current Bank guidelines require the beneficiary, prior to inviting proposals from



15
consultants, to submit for Bank review its consultant selection procedures and
to  modify  those  procedures  when  the  Bank  considers  modification  to  be
appropriate. This is a useful change from the less stringent approach prevailing
at appraisal (December 1980). If the current guidelines had been operational at
appraisal, Bank staff would probably have required elimination of those parts of
the local selection procedures which caused delay. There are two lessons to be
learned: The first is that is that at appraisal local consultant selection
procedures should be very carefully examined, especially with respect to their
operation and impact under actual circumstances. This examination should give
some clue to the efficiency of the borrower in this activity. The second is that
the Bank should make every effort to ensure acceptance and use of its consultant
selection procedures by the borrower or beneficiary.



16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
ELECTROPERU commented as follows on the draft PCR.
The PCR " ...describes in detail ...what happened when the loan was used and
during the carrying out of the various studies .     However, it is necessary to
clarify some aspects [of . ..the suspension of certain feasibility studies...
[and] ...of the [consulting] contract... [which ...initially contemplated a five-
stage study of the Rio Santa watershed, [including]:
(i) a development study of the ...watershed (i.e., an inventory of
possible sites);
(ii) a pre-feasibility study of the Canon del Pato-Quitaracsa-El Chorro
system;
(iii & iv) feasibility study and final design of El Chorro hydro-plant; and
(v) feasibility studies of the Quitarasca reservoir and expanding the
hydro-plant at Canon del Pato."
During implementation of the second stage, following the dincovery of an
active geological fault (Pashma), "... it was recommended that the planned design
of the hydro-plant at El Chorro be modified and that the stages of the study be
reformulated. In due course, this led to the abandonment of pre-feasibility and
feasibility studies initially contemplated under the Bank loan."
=...ELZCTROPERU ...completed with its own resources..." studies of the
Quitarasca reservoir and expanding the hydro-plant at Canon del Pato.
'The   final   versions   of   the   studies.. indicated   the   following
characteristics...  of the power plants at the sites examined:
Installed      Average Annual
Ails                 Ca2acitv IMWI    Generation (GWhi
Chevez Izquierda               150              915
Platanal                       140             787
Quishuarani
First Stage                   90             458
Second Stage                 135             619
Molloco
First Stage  --              200             991
Second Stage                 110             545"
The final coment of ELECTROPERU was that under new Law of Electrical
Concessions, "...the work of planning is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines."



17
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Amount      Year of
Loan No.              Purpose                 (in USS     Approval    Status
millions)
260-PE    Construction of the Huinco            24.0         1960    Completed
Hydrostation with two units
of 60 MW each
365-PE    Expansion of Huinco station           15.0         1963    Completed
to expand capacity to 240MW.
465-PE    Expansion of Transmission and         10.0         1966    Completed
Distribution System.
511-PE    Construction of Matucana              17.5         1967    Completed
(hydro).
1215-PE   ELECTROLIMA's 1975-1978               36.0         1976    Completed
transmission and distribution
expansion program, plus
technical assistance.
2018-PE   Studies at feasibility and            25.0         1981    Completed
pre-feasibility level, plus
final design & bidding
documents, as required for
hydro projects (12), a
thermal generating plant, and
a transmission line.
ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA,
BIDRANDINA, and CENTROMIN
were responsible for carrying
out studies of projects which
they later expected to
execute. Project also
included technical assistance
to reinforce planning
capacity of ELECTROPERU.



18
Amount         Year of
Loan No.                   Purpose                       (in USS        Approval        Status
millions)
2179-PE    ELECTROLIMA's 1982-1986                         81.2            1982      Completed1
distribution program, plus
construction of Yuracmayo
dam, expansion of Huinco
plant, the Mantaro Transfer
Scheme and engineering
studies for Mayush project.
2603-PE    Studies to improve                              13.5            1985      Withdrawn2
organization of regional
power companies; acquisition
of laboratory and
computational equipment.
(Technical Assistance).
Total                        222.23
Parts of the project financed by Loan 2179-PE were never carried out due to Lack of financing--that is,
the Bank, for country reasons, suspended disbursement on aLL of its loans to Peru in May 1987. Maintwnnce of
this suspension underlay the Bank's decision not to extend the closing date for the Loan beyond its deadline
of Jure 30, 1988.
2 FoLLowing approval of Loan 2603-PE (July 2, 1985), the newly leLcted Administration of Presidmnt Alan
Garcia, judging the project to be of Low priority, did not sign the loan agreement. Sixten months Later, in
circumtances of declining Bank-country relations, the Bank withdrew  the Loan with the approval of the
Goverrnent (November 25, 1986).
The Bank is considering an Electricity Privatization Adjustment Loan for USs150.0 million.



19
2. Project Timetable
-----------------------------------------------------------__---------------
Item                                             Date                                  Date
Planned                              Actual
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------
Appraisal                                                                              12/80
Loan Negotiations  (end)                                                               05/14/81
Board Approval                                    06/23/81                             06/23/81
Loan Signature                                                                         08/19/81
Loan  Effectiveness                               11/19/81                             02/25/82
Loan Closing                                      06/30/85                             06/30/87
Last Disbursement                                                                      07/07/87
Project Completion                                12/31/84                             05/07/871
This date corresponds with the Bank's suspension of disbursements on Loan 2018-PE.   Soue  dditionaL
consulting work was carried out after cLosing of the Bank loan. As recentLy as 1992, studies were completed
with respect to final designs for exparnding the Canon del Pato hydroplant and the Quitaracca reservoir.
3. Cumulative Loan Disburoements
(USS million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------_
Bank  FY                    1982          1983           1984           1985          1986        1987/88
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__
Appraisal  I/                9.4          20.6           24.1           25.0          25.0             25.0
Actual  2/                     --           3.4            6.0           9.8          14.7           19.04
Actual  as  % of               --         16.5           24.9           39.2           58.8            76.2
Estimated
1/ President's Report
2/ USS 5,959,749 was cancelled.



20
4. Project Implementation
Completion dates for Studies -
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------_
Type of          Completion of Study
Study                                     Study         Appraisal           Actual
 -   -     -    -----_--_------_------------      ___  ___  ___  ___  ___----  -  -----
1. ELECTROPERU
1.1  Platanal hydro                            FS             9/82            5/87
1.2  El Chorro hydro                       FD/BD              9/82            n.a*
1.3  Molloco hydro                             FS            12/82            5/87
1.4  Rio Chili reinforcement                  FS             12/82            5/87
1.5  Quishuarani hydro                     FS/BD              6/84            5/87
1.6  Rio Huaura hydro dev.                    PS              6/84            5/87
1.7  Rio Santa reinforcement               FS/BD             12/82           12/92
1.8  Evaluation of Olmos                      SS              6/82            5/83
1.9  Trujillo-Chiclayo-Piura TL            FS/BD             12/82            NS 1
1.10 Fuel-fired thermal                    FS/BD             12/82            NS 2
* Discovery of active fault rendered
unnecessary preparation of FD/BD.
2. ELECTROLIMA
2.1  Matucana extension                    FS/BD              7/81            4/82
2.2  Yuracmayo reservoir                   FS/BD              9/82           11/82
3. CENTROMIN
3.1  Yuncan hydro                          FD/BD              7/82            6/82
4. HIDRANDINA
4.1  Mayush hydro                          FS/FD             12/84           12/84
FD - Final Design
BD - Bidding Documents
FS - Feasibility Study
PS - Prefeasibility Study
SS - Special Study
n.a - not available
NS - Not Scheduled
 Having obtained financing for the line from the Spanish Government, ELECTROPERU decided to build the
line without carrying out a Least-cost justification exercise.
2 Due to Low m_rket growth in the Lim_ metropolitan area, ELECTROPERU decided to defer this study until
such times as m_rket conditions justified Its execution.



21
Table 5: Actual * Forecast Project Cost & Financing (in USS millions, reflecting current costs)
A. Project Costs
Item                 __
T____________ _   _Forecast   _                  Actual 1/
T____________ ____________   T_______  T____ _  I Local T  Foreign  Total
Locat      Foreiqn       Total               _          r_T
ELECTROPERU                        9.90         11.70        21.60      4.53       14.09      18.62
Hydra project studies              9.90         10.80        20.70      4.53      14.07      18.60
Technical Assistance               0.00          0.90         0.90      0.00       0.02       0.02
ELECTROLIMA                        0.70          0.90         1.60      0.50        1.28       1.78
Hydro project studies               0.70         0.90         1.60      0.50        1.28       1.78
HIDRANDINA                         3.10          5.70         3.90      2.40       2.00       4.40
Hydro project studies              3.10          5.70         3.90      2.40       2.00       4.40
CENTROMIN                          0.70          3.30         4.00      0.50        2.50      3.00
Final design (Yucan Hydro          0.70          3.30         4.00      0.50       2.50       3.00
Project)                                  ______
Subtotal                           14.40        18.50        32.90      7.93       19.87      27.80
Studies of ELETROPERU Never
Carried Out
Oil field thermal plant             0.70         5.20         5.90
Transmission line                   0.60         1.30         1.90
TOTAL                              15.70        25.00        40.70      7.93       19.87      27.80
1/ Local-cost data for studies executed by ELECTROLINA, HIDRAMDINA, wnd CENTRONIN were estimted, based on apprisL date.
B. Sources of Financing
Beneficiaries-                   15.70                    15.70       7.93        ...        7.93
World Bank                                 25.00          25.00        ---       19.04      19.04
COFIDE/CAF                         ..._                    ---                    0.83       0.83
TOTAL                            15.70    25.00           40.70       7.93       19.87      27.80



22
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits: No measurable indicators were established, since this was a
technical assistance loan.
B. Economic Impact: Not Applicable.
7. Status of Loan Covenants
Loan
Agreement            DescriDtion of Covenant                        Comments
3.02 (a)       Employ qualified consultants                     In compliance.
under contracts satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.03           Create a planning unit within                    In compliance for
(i-iii)        ELECTROPERU; Transfer of planning                first two items;
authority, planning staff and                   third item under
equipment from Direccion General de             execution (at time
Electricidad (DGE) to ELECTROPERU;              of last supervision).
Purchase of required equipment for
the planning unit.
3.05(b)        Maintain records and separate accounts           In compliance
for each part of the Project; Furnish
the Bank such information upon request.
4.05           Update Master Plan annually.                     In compliance.
5.02           Submit to the Bank audited financial             In compliance.
statements no later than four months
after their preparation.



23
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in Staff-Weeks)
Stage of
Project cycle         1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987   1988-92
________________________________________________________________________________
To Appraisal           16.7    --         --       --        --        --       --        --
Negotiation.            1.8    2.0        --       --        --        --       --        --
Supervision             0.7    6.1        5.5      11.3    4.6        4.4       3.1       3.0
Total               19.2    8.1        5.5       11.3    4.6        4.4       3.1      3.0
TOTAL Staff-weekas 59.2
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__-
Note: A more detailed breakdown for this project is not available in the MIS.
9. Supervision Kissions
-------------------------------------------------------               __-------------------      __
Month/Year    No. of        Days in    Specialization             Performance         Problem
Staff       Field         Represented             Rating
_______________________________________________________________________________-
11/82                 2            6           PE, FNA                 2                 --
03/83                 2            6           PZ, FNA                  2                M,T*
09/83                 2           17           PE, FNA                 2                 M,T
03/84                 3       10-16            P1(2), FNA              2                 M,T
10/84                 2           10           PE, FNA                  2                --
02/86                 2           12           PE, FNA                  -                F,M
04/87                                          PE                                        M,T
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__-
Managerial problems often manifested themselves in terms of bureaucratic and legal
obstacles
PE - Power Engineer
FNA - Financial Analyst
M    - Managerial
T   - Technical
F   - Financial



