Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FILE COPY
Report No. P-3075-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EMPRESA DE ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
June 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofAicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorizstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differential
between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and currency
equivalents in 1980 and as of April 30,1981 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1980         April 30, 1981
US$1                      S I/.   288.65             S/.404.86
S/.1        =             US$      0.0035            US$0.0025
S/. 1,000   =             US$      3.46              US$2.47
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CENTROMIN            Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru, S.A.
(Central Peru Mining Company)
COFIDE               Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(State Development Finance Corporation)
DGE                  Direccion General de Electricidad
(General Directorate of Electricity of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines)
ELECTROLIMA          Lima Power company
ELECTROPERU          Empresa Publica de Electricidad del Peru, S.A.
(National power company)
ERP                  Economic Recovery Program
GW                   Gigawatt (1000 MW)
HIDRANDINA           Energia Hidroelectrica Andina, S.A.
(Andean Hydroelectric Energy Company)
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
MEM                  Ministerio de Energia y Minas
(Ministry of Energy and Mines)
MW                   Megawatt (1000 KW)
PPAR                 Project Performance Audit Report
PETROPERU            Petroleos del Peru, S.A.
(National petroleum company)
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USAID                United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Empresa de Electricidad del Peru, S.A.
(ELECTROPERU).
Guarantor:                     Republic of Peru.
Beneficiaries:                 ELECTROLIMA, Empresa Minera del Centro del
Peru, S.A. (CENTROMIN) and Energia Hidroelectrica
Andina, S.A. (HIDRANDINA) would, in addition to
ELECTROPERU, carry out studies under the project.
Relending Terms:               ELECTROPERU would on-lend part of the proceeds
of the loan to CENTROMIN (US$3.0 million),
HIDRANDINA (US$2.6 million) and ELECTROLIMA
(US$0.9 million) on the same terms and conditions
as those of the proposed loan.
Amount:                        US$25.0 million, equivalent.
Terms:                         Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace
at 9.6 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:           The objectives of this operation are:  (i) to
assure the adequate and timely preparation of power
projects (mostly hydro), whose construction must
begin within the next two to four years to meet
accelerating power demand in Peru with a minimum
of dependence on thermal generation; and (ii) to
strengthen power sector planning capacity. These
objectives would be accomplished through:
(a) the preparation of prefeasibility and feas-
ibility studies as well as bidding documents
and final design, as required, for 12
hydroelectric projects. The feasibility of the
proposed Olmos power/irrigation project would
also be reviewed;
(b) the completion of the feasibility study and
preparation of bidding documents for a trans-
mission line serving northern Peru and prepara-
tion of a feasibility study and bidding docu-
ments for an oil-fired thermal generating
plant of up to 200 MW for Lima; and
(c) technical assistance to improve the planning
capability of the principal sector entity -
ELECTROPERU.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
This project involves no special technical risks
but its prompt execution does depend on the
success of measures now being taken by the
Government to improve the technical and management
capacity of ELECTROPERU. Government efforts will
be supplemented by technical assistance to be
provided under the proposed Project.
Estimated Cost:                The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of
taxes and duties, from which the project would be
exempt, is as follows:
Local      Foreign        Total
--------US$ millions…--------
ELECTROPERU                                 8.5          14.0         22.5
Hydroelectric project studies             7.5           8.3         15.8
Oil fired thermal plant                   0.5           4.0          4.5
Transmission line                         0.5           1.0          1.5
Technical assistance                       -            0.7          0.7
ELECTROLIMA                                 0.5           0.7          1.2
Hydroelectric project studies             0.5           0.7          1.2
HIDRANDINA                                  2.4           2.0          4.4
Hydroelectric project studies             2.4           2.0          4.4
CENTROMIN                                   0.5           2.5          3.0
Hydroelectric project final design        0.5           2.5          3.0
Baseline costs                       11.9           19.2        31.1
Physical contingencies                 1.2           1.9          3.1
Price contingencies                    2.6           3.9          6.5
Total costs                     15.7          25.0         40.7
Financing Plan:                             Local        Foreign       Total
---------US$ millions…-…-…----
Bank                                     --           25.0         25.0
Utility Companies                       15.7           --          15.7
15.7          25.0        40.7
Estimated Disbursements:   Bank FY           1982    1983    1984    1985
---------US$ mil ion--------
Annual           9.4    11.2      3.5      0.9
Cumulative       9.4    20.6    24.1    25.0
Rate of Return:              Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:            None.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE EMPRESA DE ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU, S.A. (ELECTROPERU)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Empresa de Electricidad del Peru, S.A. (ELECTROPERU) with the guarantee
of the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$25.0 million to help finance
a power engineering project. The proposed loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum. US$6.5
million of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be relent by ELECTROPERU
on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to three other companies
carrying out studies under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and
on those of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and where modern economic activity is concen-
trated; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's popula-
tion; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes
(Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the three
regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra
and the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in
the northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and
offshore are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascer-
tained. Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in
coastal waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp
fluctuations. Agricultural land is limited, and most of the soils suitable
for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from the Second Industrial Credit
Project President's Report of March 19, 1981 (Report No. P-2995-PE);
however, minor changes have been introduced in paras. 23 and 24.



5.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying
approximately 80 percent of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although
Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with scope for expanding
hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is expected to be the major
energy source in Peru through the rest of this century. After having been
dependent on imported crude oil for many years, domestic oil production
increased almost threefold between 1976 and 1979 to about 200,000 barrels per
day, enabling Peru to export oil in substantial quantities (about 70,000
barrels per day). Despite this encouraging production trend, domestic
consumption is rebounding after several years of stagnation, and Peru may
once again become a net importer of petroleum in the mid-1980s unless new
oil reserves are discovered and rational pricing policies adopted to contain
demand growth. The Government has begun to address the problem vigorously.
Prices for domestically consumed petroleum products were steeply increased,
and new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to investors.
Response to the tax incentives has been positive.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. In the
early 1960s, however, birth rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by the
urbanization process and by improved education. But with declining death
rates, population has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is
currently estimated at about 17 million. It is expected that population
growth will fall only slightly to about 2.6 percent p.a. over the next 20
years, unless an effective demographic policy is adopted. The Government is
conscious of the need to slow down Peru's demographic growth rate and is now
developing a primary health care program which would contain a family planning
component. The urban population is increasing at 4.5 percent p.a., and over
4 million people are concentrated in Lima. Given the structure of Peru's
population, the labor force is expected to grow in excess of 3 percent per
year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        The military Government, in office from October 1968 until July 1980,
followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic growth and improv-
ing distribution of income and wealth, not only on the individual level but
also between regions. To achieve these goals, the Government expanded the
role of the State in the economy, changed the pattern of asset ownership,
reduced foreign ownership of national resources, oriented industry and agri-
culture toward production of essential goods for the domestic market, stimu-
lated regional deconcentration, and reformed the educational system. Through
nationalization and creation of new enterprises, the State took direct control
of key economic sectors. Moreover, the Government imposed complex legislation
to control the operations of the private sector.
8.        The pattern of asset ownership in the economy changed drastically.
Through nationalization, the share of foreign-owned assets fell sharply. A
sweeping land reform redistributed 49 percent of the country's best farmland
to workers' cooperatives benefitting some 30 percent of all rural families.
Through other laws, industrial workers were given shares in their employers'
firms and, in the mining sector, a share in profits. While these actions
benefitted large numbers of Peruvians, they barely reached the poorest groups,
which continue to live in abject poverty. It is estimated, for example, that
almost three quarters of rural families--mostly "minifundistas" (those farming
less than 2 ha) and landless seasonal workers--were not reached by social



- 3 -
programs. Moreover, subsidies were given to products that were more important
in the consumption basket of high and middle-income groups than in that of the
poorest groups. Artificially low prices for some products--such as mutton
and cereals--actually hurt the poor who produced these items, and affected
production negatively. Although many of the policies and structural changes
carried out after 1968 were meant to achieve rapid growth and more equality,
the cost of these measures proved to be excessive and their implementation
inefficient.
*        9.         Between 1968 and 1977, the Government followed expansionary fiscal
and credit policies. A rapid increase in expenditures was not matched by a
parallel increase in revenues. Public sector savings dropped steadily in
relation to GDP from 4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977.
Major causes were the erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives,
loopholes, weak enforcement, rising budgetary cost of subsidies for foodstuffs
and petroleum products, and sharp increases in defense outlays. At the same
time, public investment expanded rapidly and was increasingly concentrated on
capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and little immediate
contribution to the growth of output or employment.
10.       Pricing, interest rate and foreign exchange policies encouraged
consumption and discouraged savings, exports and sometimes overall production.
The problems were exacerbated by circumstances beyond the control of the
authorities such as the sharp drop in the catch of anchovies, the fishing
industry's mainstay, and the sharp deterioration in Peru's terms of trade
between 1974 and 1978. As a result, aggregate demand considerably exceeded
aggregate supply. Excess demand, in turn, led to strong inflationary pressures
and widening external gaps.
11.        Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially negative in real
terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating capital flight. Moreover,
the exchange rate remained practically constant between 1968 and 1975, thus
contributing to the overall disequilibrium. National savings fell dramatic-
ally from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent in 1977, when they financed
only about one-half of investment.
12.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of payments.
The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77,
equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt. At year-end 1977, Peru's total private and
public external debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost
US$8.3 billion, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and almost four times exports
of goods and non-factor services. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly
short maturities. Three-fourths of the US$6.4 billion long-term public sector
debt (including undisbursed) was scheduled to be repaid over the 1978-82
period.
13.       Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion during which GDP
grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. GDP (at constant 1973 prices) fell by
0.1 percent in 1977 and a further 0.7 percent in 1978.  In this two-year



period, GDP per capita dropped by over 6 percent and unemployment or under-
employment is believed to have risen to almost 60 percent of the labor force,
up from less than 50 percent during the early 1970s. According to Government
estimates, the purchasing power of an average salary had fallen 40 percent by
1978 compared to 1970 and that of an average wage by over 16 percent.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
14.       From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope
with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it increas-
ingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the banking
system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level of US$800
million. Financial instability had reached the point where practically all
economic activities were adversely affected. The public sector was fast
approaching the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its
external debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy.
15.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. It also reached an agreement with foreign
commercial banks to reschedule US$185 million of principal payments due in the
second half of 1978 until January 1979. Moreover, the Government negotiated a
stand-by arrangement with the IMF for SDR 184 million. In July 1979, this
stand-by was replaced by a new one for SDR 285 million in support of the same
financial program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of January 31, 1981
amounted to SDR 617.5 million.
16.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment to
the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled the equivalent
of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80. These amounts
are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of grace. In
November 1978, at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to reschedule
90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to governments and
guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263 million).
These amounts were to be repaid over a period of eight years, including three
years of grace. The Paris Club creditors also agreed to reschedule 90 percent
of the principal payments due in 1979 and 1980 on private sector debt guaran-
teed or insured in the creditor countries (about US$30 million in each year).
In addition, Peru negotiated smaller amounts of debt relief with non-OECD
countries. At the end of 1979, however, in view of the improved balance of
payments situation, the Government decided to forego the Paris Club debt
rescheduling option for 1980.
17.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru repaid
in 1979 the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para 15 above).
The agreement gave the Government the option of refinancing up to 90 percent
of the maturities due in 1979 and 1980. Again, in view of the strong balance
of payments performance, the Government decided not to take advantage of the
rescheduling of 1979 maturities, thus obtaining slightly better terms on the
refinancing of 90 percent of the 1980 maturities.



18.       To overcome the economic recession, the Government adopted a more
comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition to the
above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by broad-
ening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource allocation
in the private and public sectors. Import liberalization was the most im-
portant element of the ERP and is expected to have salutary long-term effects
on the economy. The Government also drew up a public sector investment program
that aimed at redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic
priority and with positive effects on production and employment. In support
of the ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan in May 1979.
Progress in carrying out the ERP has generally been satisfactory. Performance
in some critical areas--e.g., export promotion and import liberalization--
exceeded expectations. In other areas--e.g., improvements in the quality of
public investment and in raising interest rates--progress was more modest.
19.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a reduction in excessive
civil service employment. Public sector current account savings rose from -
0.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to about 3.6 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall
deficit was reduced from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1978 to 2.9 percent in 1979.
In spite of the good fiscal performance, however, inflationary pressures have
remained strong, with consumer price increases of 67 percent in 1979 and of
about 60 percent in 1980.
20.       The implementation of stabilization measures and of the ERP had
a positive impact on the balance of payments. Moreover, an increase in
petroleum exports, substantial price increases for silver, copper, petroleum,
and other commodities, as well as the relatively low level of imports because
of the recession led to high overall surpluses of the balance of payments in
1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position was estimated at
about US$1.8 billion, equivalent to over 5 months of imports. Peru also made
greater use of assistance from official bilateral and international sources
thus improving the structure of its external debt. The short-term debt of
less than one year, already sharply reduced from US$1.8 billion at year-end
1978 to US$1.1 billion at year-end 1979, is expected to be further reduced as
the gradually improving economic situation permits new medium-term credit
lines to be opened.  Real GDP growth in 1979 was 3.5 percent.  Growth of some
3 percent is estimated in 1980 owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector.
Outlook
21.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were held in
May 1980, and the transfer of authority to the Government of President Fernando
Belaunde took place on July 28, 1980. The new Government faces a challenging
economic and social situation. Although the stabilization-cum-economic recovery
program (1978-80) has resulted in an improved financial situation and has laid



-6-
the ground for more efficient resource use, the present economic situation is
characterized by a number of acute problems such as persistent high inflation,
high un- and underemployment, stagnating agricultural and petroleum production,
a deteriorated pattern of income distribution, food and petroleum subsidies,
and an inherited rigid structure of Government expenditures with relatively
low expenditures for economic and social purposes and high outlays for interest
payments and defense. Peru also faces severe long-term problems like wide-
spread poverty, poor state of health and nutrition, rapid population growth,
severe water and land resource constraints, rapidly expanding demand for
energy and potable water, and the low degree of integration between the
different parts of the country. These problems call for urgent corrective
measures. Tackling them all will be difficult given overall resource scarcity
and particularly the very limited public sector resource availabilities.
22.       The new Government has a capable economic team which is committed to
economic efficiency, decontrol, promotion of the private sector, and policies
conducive to a more equitable sharing of the benefits of development. During
the first few months in office, the Government took important economic policy
measures such as the elimination of import licenses, tariff cuts, major upward
price adjustments--particularly for domestically consumed petroleum, power,
and food items--adoption of higher interest rates, a new agricultural promotion
law, and others. Moreover, it enacted a new petroleum law giving tax incentives
to promote new petroleum exploration, and it is preparing programs to improve
the situation in health, housing, and transport. Important efforts have also
been made to work out a five-year public investment program that responds to
the country's needs and resource availabilities. In this context, the creation
in November 1980 of PROINVERSION, a committee attached to the Prime Minister's
office and in charge of coordinating all efforts related to public investment
including foreign financing, is an important initiative to improve the effi-
ciency of resource use.
23.       To tackle the most difficult short-term problems, inflation (running
at over 60 percent per year) and the precarious public finance situation (with
an overall public sector deficit equivalent to some 6 percent of GDP in 1980),
the Government is following a restrictive financial program for 1981 with
tight credit ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness.
24.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management and commodity prices, the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation during the next two years. The balance of payments situation
could, however, become precarious, if the exportable surplus of oil declines
and if imports further accelerate as a result of the import liberalization
and economic recovery process. While measures are being undertaken to speed
up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, these may not
lead to the expected results in time to countervail the potential foreign
exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing need
for official development assistance. Considering the above, a debt service
ratio hovering around the 30 percent mark and assuming that the authorities
continue the initiated course of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for
Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
25.       The Bank has approved 42 loans to Peru for a total amount of US$909.8
million, net of cancellations. About 31 percent of the Bank's lending to Peru
has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 20 percent for
agriculture, 15.4 percent for the energy sector, 16 percent for mining and
industry, about 5 percent for education and urban development, and 12.6
percent for the US$115 million program loan of May 1979.
26.       As of April 30, 1981, US$368.7 million was undisbursed on Bank
loans currently in execution. (Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of April 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.)
Disbursements on Bank financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of counter-
part funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this period. In
an effort to improve disbursements: (i) the Bank opened a resident mission in
Peru; (ii) the Executive Directors approved modifications in the Education and
the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects (see Annex II for further details); (iii) the
Government provided adequate counterpart funds in 1979 and 1980; and (iv) the
Government also set up a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. With these actions, the pace of disbursement
is now increasing; about US$44.0 million was disbursed on project loans in
FY1980 and US$47.5 million during the first three quarters of FY1981. This
compares with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY1977-79.
27.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in (i) the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and
foster economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in
crucial sectors; (iii) the consolidation of structural and institutional
changes, particularly land and education reforms; (iv) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (v) the improve-
ment of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank
lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors.
More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive
fields -- mining, agriculture and industry -- to help Peru to strengthen its
balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also grown. As part of
its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a Consultative Group Meeting for
Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government arrange financing for its
public investment program.
28.       The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration include projects in road improvement and rehabilitation,
small-scale industry, urban development, and health. This program has
been reviewed with the Government and is in line with its priorities.
29.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 4.0 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1979, and absorbed
about 3.3 percent of the country's external debt service in 1979. Assuming
increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid by Peru, the
Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign debt by 1985 could
reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service would be around 4.5
percent.



- 8 -
30.       IFC commitments as of April 30, 1981 were US$29.7 million (including
US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper
Mining Project) of which US$15.4 million is held by the Corporation. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of April 30, 1981 is presented in Annex II.
31.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). IDB is expected to emphasize lending for agriculture,
industry, mining, roads, and small scale irrigation. In its future lending,
USAID is expected to stress rural development and health. Total loan commitments
as of December 31, 1980 by IDB and USAID were US$652.4 million and US$348.6
million, respectively, and their shares of debt service as of end-1979 were both
estimated at 0.6 percent.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Balance and Resource Base
32.       Peru's energy resource base is large and diverse, but relatively
unexploited. Oil currently provides about 80 percent of the country's commer-
cial energy requirements and 54 percent of total energy requirements. Known
(proved and probable) oil reserves total about one billion barrels and
estimates of undiscovered reserves range from two to twenty billion barrels.
There is no reliable estimate of coal reserves, which are currently almost
completely unutilized. Gas reserves are estimated at only one to two trillion
cubic feet. Warm and boiling springs exist in many parts of the country but
the magnitude of geothermal resources is unknown.
33.       Despite Peru's heavy dependence on oil, its most significant poten-
tial sources of primary energy are its hydropower and forest resources. A
recent survey of Peru's hydroelectric potential enumerated about 100 tech-
nically feasible hydroelectric projects with a combined output of 200 GW,
about 85 percent of which is in the country's Atlantic watershed. Econo-
mically exploitable hydro resources total about 60,000 MW, of which only
1,654 MW are presently being used. Peru's forests have a primary energy
potential much greater than total national energy consumption and, if properly
managed, could supply an increased percentage of energy requirements.
34.       According to a 1978 UNDP study, Peru's 1976 gross energy balance was
as follows:
Primary energy source          % share              End use 1/            % share
Oil                             54.4       Residential and commercial    33.6
Firewood and dung               29.6       Industry and mining             25.8
Hydropower                       5.9       Transportation                  20.9
Natural gas                      5.5       Agriculture and fishing          9.2
Bagasse                          4.2       Other                           10.5
Coal                             0.4
100.0                                      100.0
I/   Total energy consumption amounted to ten million tons of oil equivalent
in 1976.



- 9 -
35.       Until recently, the Pacific watershed's hydro potential and the
northern coastal oil reserves were sufficient to satisfy demand for power in
urban areas. These sources are no longer adequate, however, and in the future
hydroelectric, oil and biomass resources of the Atlantic watershed will increas-
ingly have to be tapped. Since these are far from the demand centers and more
difficult to develop, energy will become more expensive.
36.       Oil.  Peru is one of the world's oldest oil producing countries and
was self-sufficient in petroleum for many years. During the 1950s, however,
with domestic prices for petroleum products as well as producers' margins at
low levels, domestic consumption began to outstrip lagging production.
As a result, Peru became increasingly dependent on crude oil imports in the
1960s and 1970s. In the late 1970s, following the discovery of oil in Peru's
jungle, oil output began to increase substantially. By mid-1978 Peru was once
again self-sufficient in oil and production had climbed to 207,000 barrels per
day in 1980, 37 percent of which was exported. Domestic demand, however, is
likely to increase as the economy recovers from the severe recession of the
late 1970s and the country could again become an oil importer by the mid-1980s.
If this is to be avoided, new oil reserves must be discovered and developed,
production of existing fields must be maintained and domestic petroleum prices
must be increased to discourage wasteful consumption. To spur exploration
efforts, the Government has taken measures, including improved tax incentives,
to attract foreign oil companies to Peru. A contract has been signed with one
firm and negotiations are underway with a number of others. Moreover, to
support the development of Peru's petroleum sector, the Bank made a loan of
US$32.5 million in February 1980 to PETROPERU, the State-owned national
petroleum company, to help finance rehabilitation of existing producing wells,
reactivation of temporarily abandoned wells and development of new production
potential (Ln. 1806-PE).
37.       The Government has been making an effort to achieve reasonable
domestic prices for petroleum products with quarterly increases, but prices in
real terms are still below international levels (84 octane gasoline retails for
about US$0.90 per gallon). The Government has announced its intention to continue
regular price increases in order to achieve a regular gasoline price of US$1.20!
gallon by end-1981.
38.       Coal.  The last year that coal was mined in Peru was 1973.  The main
reasons for the cessation of coal production were the rising costs of mining
and competition from oil, whose domestic price was subsidized. Initial studies
indicate that coal deposits are generally of low quality and range from lignite
to anthracite. Most deposits are considerably less than a meter thick, although
thicker coal beds with some economic potential are found in central and northern
Peru. There is no detailed study of the size or quality of coal reserves and
the Bank is now exploring with the Government the possibility of a technical
assistance loan to further examine Peru's coal potential.
39.       The coal field that has received most attention is Alto Chicama, where
proven and probable reserves total about 60 million metric tons and possible
reserves are estimated at about 210 million metric tons. The State-owned



- 10 -
national power company, ELECTROPERU, has carried out preliminary studies on
the use of Alto Chicama coal to fire a possible 480 MW power plant. Current
knowledge of the Alto Chicama coal reserves is, however, insufficient to firm
up plans for such a plant and further studies are required to determine the
technical and economic feasibility of the project.
40.        Other Sources.  Sixty percent of Peru's land surface is covered
by natural and cultivated forests (99 percent in the Selva region), which are
a major source of energy--particularly in rural areas--where charcoal and
firewood are the principal fuels. Depletion of wood resources in the Sierra
is a growing problem, however, and charcoal production has been prohibited by
law, although some still takes place. While the Government is considering
reforestation projects for the Sierra, it has not yet adopted any formal
policy on the development of wood and other biomass energy sources. It
has also not adopted policies on the development and use of renewable energy
technologies. Some experiments have been mounted, however, particularly with
wind turbines for water pumping, solar distillation and drying, solar water
heaters and cookers and mini-hydro plants. Most of the effort has focussed on
minihydro technology and several projects are under way. Finally, the Peruvian
Institute of Nuclear Energy is conducting research on nuclear energy using a
small reactor. Argentina is providing Peru with a larger research facility,
including a 10 MW reactor, but Peru's 1981-85 public investment program does
not envisage construction of a commercial nuclear power plant.
Sector Organization
41.        The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) has responsibility for
coordinating all energy planning activities and for setting prices in the
energy sector. Operational responsibility is divided among various public
enterprises under MEM's aegis. PETROPERU is responsible for all phases of pro-
duction and distribution of petroleum products, although several foreign oil
companies are currently carrying out petroleum exploration and development
activities under contract to PETROPERU. In the electric power subsector, the
two most important operating entities are ELECTROPERU, which is charged with
developing power generation projects, and ELECTROLIMA, the State-owned electric
company which serves the Lima metropolitan area (accounting for about 60 percent
of the market).
42.        In recent years MEM has received an appreciable amount of technical
assistance in the energy planning field. This assistance has included an
energy balance study (completed in 1976 by the UNDP)and an assessment of re-
sources and planning (done in 1979 by the US Government). The German Government
financed a survey of hydroelectric potential in 1979 and has, together with the
Bank under the Fifth Power Loan (Ln 1215-PE of 1976), financed a power sector
master plan, completed in 1980, in order to develop a least cost investment
program for the sector. MEM thus has sufficient knowledge of the country's
energy situation -- except in the areas of coal resources and geothermal
potential -- to develop a comprehensive resource development program. The
aims of such a program should be to minimize the consumption of oil through
conservation measures and the substitution of oil use by hudroelectric power
and coal where possible. The Government is now considering creation of a
national energy council to develop and coordinate sector policies.



- 11 -
The Electric Power Subsector
43.       Electric Power Facilities.  Despite its hydroelectric potential,
national electric energy production remained at a fairly constant 70/30
hydro-thermal ratio throughout the 1970s. As the national system is extended
to isolated regions and to mining companies where thermal generation now
predominates, the hydroelectric component is expected to increase.
44.       Public power companies meet about 70 percent of Peru's total
electric energy demand. The remainder is supplied by captive plants serving
industrial and mining installations. The country's principal power grid
is the Central-North interconnected system, which comprises about 1,500 MW
of hydroelectric and 300 MW of thermal generating capacity. It represents
63 percent of the total 2,860 MW of generating capacity in Peru and
80-90 percent of the public service system. The latest extension of the
Central-North system consists of a 220-kV transmission line, which was
completed in early 1981, linking Lima with Chimbote and Trujillo, two
important cities on Peru's northern coast. This system will be extended
as far north as Piura during this decade, incorporating in the process the
hydro installations of CENTROMIN, a State-owned mining company, by 1982 and
various cities in the northern coastal zone by 1987. By 1990, the only large
systems that would remain outside the main power grid would be those serving
the southwest (Arequipa-Tacna), the southeast (Cuzco), and the major cities
of the Selva (e.g., Iquitos and Pucallpa).
45.       Electric Power Demand.  Because of Peru's economic difficulties
in the late 1970s, power demand dropped from the normal growth level of eight
percent p.a. registered in the early-and mid-seventies to 4 percent. Based on
a recent market study financed by the Bank under Loan 1215-PE and trends over
the past 12-18 months, demand is projected to rebound and grow at eight percent
p.a. through 1990. Because of the weakness of sector institutions (see paras.
47-48 below), however, insufficient work has been done on preparing hydroelectric
projects and Peru now faces the need to develop such projects on an accelerated
basis if it is to avoid the large-scale installation of thermal plants to meet
resurgent demand.
46.       Principal Entities.  Prior to 1972, the public utility portion of
the subsector was composed of private, municipal and State entities serving
concession zones or regions; no national sector planning or coordination
existed. Captive plants serving large mining and industrial installations,
which accounted for about 40 percent of total electricity generation, were
generally not interconnected with public-service systems.
47.       The Electricity Law of 1972 made the State the principal authority
in the sector. Under this Law, MEM was given responsibility for power sector
policy formulation, for the authorization of investments, and for regulation and
tariff setting. The Ministry's General Directorate of Electricity (DGE) carries
out these functions. Through most of the 1970s, DGE was a weak entity. It
experienced excessive turnover of high-level personnel because of low salaries
and thus did not exert a leadership role in the sector. The power sector master
plan (see para. 42 above), for which DGE was responsible, was not completed until
late 1980, in part because of DGE's lack of technical and administrative
capacity and is only now being adopted by MEM and the principal utility companies.



- 12 -
48.       The 1972 Electricity Law also created ELECTROPERU, provided for
State participation in existing private utilities (by far the largest of
which was the predecessor company to ELECTROLIMA) and provided for intercon-
nection of power systems. The law gave ELECTROPERU responsibility for planning,
engineering, construction and operation of all new generating facilities
larger than 10 MW and for the development and construction of the transmission
network. Despite the Law's provisions, ELECTROPERU has not been able to discharge
effectively many of the responsibilities assigned to it because, as a State enter-
prise subject to salary limitations and cumbersome administrative procedures, it
has had difficulty in attracting and retaining highly qualified and motivated
personnel. The DGE has remained responsible for planning -- including the recently
completed master plan -- and major investment decisions have been taken by the
Government.
49.       Several steps are under way to clarify sectoral responsibilities and
to improve ELECTROPERU's operations. Legislation was, for example, recently
enacted placing ELECTROPERU under the law governing private corporations,
as is the case for most other power sector public utilities. This gives
ELECTROPERU the autonomy it needs to raise salaries and begin resolving its
staffing and managerial problems. To further strengthen the company, five
individuals -- probably expatriates -- would be financed by an IDB loan to serve
as advisers and deputies to ELECTROPERU's general manager for several years and
provide on-the-job training to the titular deputy managers. Finally, the Bank
loan proposed in this report would provide training and support for ELECTROPERU's
planning unit.
50.       ELECTROLIMA is the distribution company for metropolitan Lima and
operates a number of generating facilities, some of which were financed by
previous Bank loans to Peru. HIDRANDINA, which is still about 10 percent
owned by private interests, owns and operates two of the hydroelectric plants
serving the ELECTROLIMA system. CENTROMIN has developed an electric power
system as an adjunct to its mining operations. All three companies are
capable and have qualified personnel. Small power companies, owned by the
State since the mid-1970s, serve Peru's smaller cities.
Subsector Reorganization
51.       Subsector organization studies were carried out in 1979 and 1980,
financed by the Bank under Loan 1215-PE and by the IDB. With the input from
these studies, the Government is preparing a reorganization of the electric
power sector, which would make it more effective.  Under this proposed
reorganization, which has been preliminarily reviewed by the Bank and found
to be satisfactory, ELECTROPERU is expected to continue running its existing
generating plants but would also become a holding company for regional generation/
distribution entities responsible for constructing and operating new generating
plants.



- 13 -
Subsector Finances
52.       Based on the net income-to-equity ratio traditionally used in Peru,
or on the return-on-net assets test generally used in most Latin American
countries to measure financial performance of electric utilities, the power
sector's results have not been satisfactory. In recent years earnings have
been lower than necessary to provide the resources to finance the large
investment program the country must undertake. In the 1975-78 period, the
return on equity of all sector entities, except one small distribution company,
did not exceed four percent per annum in real terms. In 1979 ELECTROPERU and
ELECTROLIMA, which account for most of the sector, earned about 4.5 percent and
8.5 percent, respectively, on average revalued net assets, which was equivalent
to three to four percent on equity in each case (ELECTROLIMA had higher interest
charges). For 1980, the power sector's net income was negligible. This contrasts
with an 11 percent return on equity permitted by the 1955 electric industry law,
which, although still applicable, has not been followed since 1972. While
ELECTROLIMA's contribution to expansion was adequate in 1978-1979 because of its
limited investment program, ELECTROPERU --which is the principal investor in the
sector-- contributed only three and ten percent, respectively, in those years
and has required Government contributions to pay for its large expansion program.
Financial statements and key financial ratios for 1978-79 for ELECTROPERU,
ELECTROLIMA and HIDRANDINA are included as Annex IV.
53.       The Government is attempting to improve this situation.  Since
the beginning of 1981, it has put into effect tariff increases of about 10
percent in real terms. Its goal for the power sector is to continue to raise
tariffs on a quarterly basis sufficiently to permit sector institutions to make
a 30 percent contribution to expansion from net internal cash generation by
end-1983. If, as is currently expected, the Bank is requested to help finance
some of the major hudroelectric projects to be prepared under the proposed pre-
investment studies project and initiated next year, the Bank would at that time
review the power sector's financial situation and seek to reach agreement on
satisfactory financial goals in connection with a possible Bank loan.
ELECTROPERU's Finances
54.       Despite low levels of earnings in the past (averaging less than one
percent per annum on equity in 1975-78 and about four percent in 1979), ELECTRO-
PERU's financial position is now strong. At year-end 1979, its ratio of long-
term debt to equity was 26/74 and its debt-service coverage ratio was 1.4/1.
The main reason for this strength, however, is that the Government has assumed
responsibility for all debt incurred for the construction of ELECTROPERU's major
investments in the past. Under current policy the Government will not assume any
further ELECTROPERU debt. An adequate policy on tariffs will be required, there-
fore, if ELECTROPERU's debt service coverage ratio is to remain at a satisfactory
level and if it is to be in a position to self-finance 30 percent of its invest-
ment program by end-1983. A more complete analysis of the past financial
performance of ELECTROPERU, as well as of ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN and HIDRANDINA
is contained in Annex IV.
Previous Bank Lending for Energy
55.       The Bank has made five loans amounting to US$102.5 million for power
development in Peru. Three loans, totaling US$56.5 million, were for hydroelectric



- 14 -
projects for the Lima area and two, totaling US$46.0 million were for expansion
of the Lima distribution system. ELECTROLIMA and its predecessor company,
Empresas Electricas Asociadas, were the beneficiaries of all the loans. In
1980, the Bank made its first petroleum loan to Peru (see para. 36).
56.       Execution of the first four power projects was generally satisfac-
tory. A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has only been done for the
Fourth Project (Ln. 511-PE of 1967). This Report (SecM 75-682 of September
23, 1975) indicates that the project was completed about a year late and with
a large cost overrun. The delay was caused by Empresas Electricas Asociadas'
financial problems and the 1968 change in Government. The cost overrun was
the result of higher than expected price increases during the period. Once
project execution got underway, however, performance was good. The project's
rate of return was above the 12 percent expected, primarily because of the
increase in oil prices in 1973.
57.       The Bank's most recent power loan to Peru, the US$36 million Fifth
Power Project for expansion of Lima's distribution system (Ln. 1215-PE of
1976), initially moved more slowly than expected because of a sharp decline in
the growth of power demand in the late 1970s because of the country's serious
economic problems. Demand picked up in 1980 and the project is now expected
to be completed by mid-1982.
58.       The Fifth Power loan was to finance several studies, including one
of the structure of power tariffs to be carried out by MEM. Current tariff
structures are seriously in need of revision as inflation and tariff increases,
which have been applied unequally to the various customer classes, have created
distortions. In addition, there is a need to investigate the role tariffs may
play in any energy conservation policy to be adopted by MEM. Terms of reference
for this study were agreed with the Bank in May 1980. A firm has now been
selected and contract negotiations are underway.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
59.       A review of the status of power sector development in Peru, taking
into account the initial results of the master plan referred to in paragraph
42, has confirmed that the preparation and development of hydroelectric projects
has been seriously delayed. Consequently, in spite of its enormous hydroelectric
potential, Peru may need to install a substantial amount of thermal generation
capacity in the mid- to late-1980s in order to meet growing demand. This failure
to identify, prepare and initiate projects on a timely basis is a result of the
poor sectoral organization and lack of planning mentioned in Part III.
60.       The amount of thermal capacity that might have to be installed in
the Central-North Interconnected System in the mid- to late-1980s can be
reduced significantly if a crash program to prepare hydroelectric projects is
undertaken now. The principal purpose of the proposed power engineering project,



- 15 -
therefore, is to accelerate studies of hydroelectric projects so as to
minimize the need for significant new thermal generating capacity in Peru.
Another objective is to continue efforts begun under Loan 1215-PE to
strengthen the electric power subsector and ELECTROPERU.
61.       The project was prepared by MEM and appraised in December 1980.
Negotiations were held from May 8 to 11, 1981. The Peruvian Delegation was
headed by Mr. Luis Ampuero, Manager of ELECTROPERU. There is no separate
appraisal report for this project. Supplementary project data are contained
in Annex II.
Project Description
62.       The power project studies included for financing under the proposed
loan were selected on the basis of the master plan least cost program, which
has been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank. The project would
consist of:
(i) the preparation of prefeasibility and feasibility studies as
well as final design and bidding documents, as required, for 12
hydroelectric projects with a total generating capacity of about
1,100 MW and a brief review of the feasibility study of the Olmos
power/irrigation project;
(ii)  the preparation of feasibility studies and bidding documents
for a fuel-fired generating station of up to 200 MW needed for
Lima by 1986 and completion of the feasibility study and prepara-
tion of bidding documents for a transmission line for northern
Peru (Trujillo-Piura); and
(iii) staffing and equipping of a planning group in ELECTROPERU.
Hydroelectric Project Studies
63.       Hydro project preinvestment studies would account for 78 percent of
total project costs. Nine of the 12 hydroelectric projects to be studied, with
a generating capacity of about 800 MW, would serve the Central-North system.
Two, Molloco (200-300 MW) and the Rio Chili reinforcement, would serve the
southwest and Quishuarani (30 MW) is located in the southeast.
64.       Final design and bidding documents would be completed for CENTROMIN's
120 MW Yuncan project and ELECTROPERU's 150 MW El Chorro project. Feasibility
studies and bidding documents would be prepared for HIDRANDINA's Cahua
reinforcement, ELECTROLIMA's 50 MW Matucana and Yuracuayo hydro extensions
and ELECTROPERU's 14 MW Rio Santa and Quishuarani projects. A prefeasibility
study would be done for ELECTROPERU's 339 MW Rio Huaura hydro development.
The remaining projects, ELECTROPERU's Molloco, Platanal (81 MW) and Rio Chili
projects and the 40 MW second stage of the Cahua project would be studied to
the feasibility level. A feasibility study has been completed for the Olmos
project but further work, which would be financed under the proposed loan,
would determine whether the project is economically and technically justified.



- 16 -
Thermal Plant and Transmission Line Studies
65.       Currently, the only way to meet the projected eight percent annual
increase in power demand for the Central-North system in the mid-1980s would
be through installation of a 200 MW thermal plant. The study of this unit
would determine the most economic fuel source (e.g., coal, gas or oil). It is
possible, however, that if the preinvestment studies of other hydro projects to
be financed under the proposed loan can be accelerated and those projects
initiated on a timely basis, the size of this unit might be reduced somewhat.
Every effort will be made to accomplish this. The thermal plant feasibility
study to be undertaken by ELECTROPERU, including the preparation of bidding
documents, would account for 14.5 percent of project costs.
66.       ELECTROPERU's 620 km Trujillo-Piura transmission line would complete
the interconnection of the Central-North system by 1987. Under the project, the
transmission line's feasibility study would be completed and bidding documents
would be prepared. This transmission line component would account for five percent
of project costs.
Planning and Project Implementation Technical Assistance
67.       The project would include additional equipment, training and an
advisor to assist in the establishment and operation of a master planning unit
within ELECTROPERU's Planning Department. This component would account for 2.5 per-
cent of project costs. MEM would transfer to ELECTROPERU responsibility for power
sector planning by June 30, 1982 and would transfer all its planning staff, equip-
ment and materials to ELECTROPERU by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.02(a) and (b) of
the draft Guarantee Agreement). In order to ensure that ELECTROPERU promptly initi-
ates and follows through on power sector planning in the future, it has been agreed
that, by June 30, 1982, ELECTROPERU would establish the planning unit under an
organizational structure and with operating guidelines satisfactory to the Bank
and agree with the Bank on the equipment to be financed by the proposed loan
(Section 3.03(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). By December 31, 1982, ELECTROPERU
would complete the purchase of equipment and staffing of the unit in accordance
with the agreed upon organizational structure and operating guidelines and would
submit for Bank approval a training program for the unit's staff, which it would
thereafter carry out (Section 3.03(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement). Until
December 31, 1982, when the planning unit would be fully established in ELECTROPERU,
MEM and ELECTROPERU would collaborate closely to carry out planning activities
(Sections 3.03(i) and 3.02(b) of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
respectively). ELECTROPERU would, thereafter, update the master plan at least
every six months through 1983 and at least once a year thereafter (Section 4.05
of the draft Loan Agreement). The greater initial frequency of the revision is
desirable for training purposes.
Project Execution
68.       ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN and HIDRANDINA would each be
responsible for executing those studies related to the projects which each
agency would subsequently expect to carry out. ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN and
HIDRANDINA would make available the conclusions of their studies to ELECTROPERU
as inputs into ELECTROPERU's sectoral planning activities. The staffs of each



- 17 -
of the participating agencies, except CENTROMIN, would prepare some of the
studies to be financed under the proposed loan with the assistance of
specialized consultants. All other studies would be fully contracted out to
consulting firms. The consultants selected under this project would be
satisfactory to the Bank and would be hired under terms of reference and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (Sections 3.02(a) and 2.02 (a), (b) and (c)
of the draft Loan and Project Agreements, respectively). The technical assistance
to be provided to ELECTROPERU's planning unit, which will assist ELECTROPERU's
studies unit in carrying out the project, would help assure its timely
execution. The other three companies are capable of executing their components.
A project execution schedule is contained in Annex V. The project would take
about 3-1/2 years to complete.
Project Cost and Financing
69.       Total project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties, are estimated at
US$40.7 million, of which US$25 million, or 61 percent, represents foreign costs
and would be financed by the proposed loan. Local costs would be financed by the
four companies undertaking the studies. The project's principal *foreign-cost
component consists of about 1,600 staff-months of consultant services, almost all
of which are expected to be provided by foreign consultants whose cost is estimated
at US$12,000 per consultant-month. This would not include contingencies but would
cover salaries, overhead, fees, allowances and international travel.
70.       The cost estimate is based on December 1980 price levels.  Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been added to provide for unforeseen changes in
scope. Price contingencies were based on projected annual worldwide inflation
rates of 9 percent in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982 and 7.5 percent per annum in the
1983-85 period. The cost estimate is based on the utilities' recent experience
and is in line with costs for similar studies in other Bank-financed projects.
The total cost of the power preinvestment studies to be financed under this
project is less than two percent of the estimated cost of the related investment
projects.
Relending Terms
71.       The Bank loan would be made to ELECTROPERU, with the guarantee of
the Republic of Peru. Including contingencies, ELECTROPERU would use US$18.5
million of the proposed loan to help finance its studies and would on-lend the
remaining proceeds of the loan to ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN and HIDRANDINA on the
same terms and conditions of the proposed Bank loan. ELECTROLIMA would receive
US$0.9 million in loan funds, CENTROMIN would get US$3.0 million and HIDRANDINA
would receive the remaining US$2.6 million. To establish the terms and
conditions governing their participation in the project, the three entities
would enter into a project agreement with the Bank and subsidiary loan contracts
satisfactory to the Bank with ELECTROPERU (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Execution of each subsidiary loan contract would be a condition of
disbursement for the proceeds to be on-lent thereunder (paragraph 4(b), (c)
and (d) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
72.       To permit prompt initiation of the studies of hydro projects so
as to minimize the amount of thermal generation needed in the future, retro-
active financing of foreign exchange expenditures incurred after December 31,
1980 would be permitted, up to a limit of US$2.2 million.



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursement
73.       Selection of consultants would be in accordance with Peruvian
procedures, which require a competition on the substantive aspects of the
consultants' proposals. The procedures are acceptable to the Bank.
The small amount (up to US$300,000 in a variety of procurement packages)
of materials and equipment required for strengthening ELECTROPERU's
planning unit makes international competitive bidding for these items
impracticable. They would, therefore, be procured through international
shopping.
74.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of the foreign
cost and 90 percent of the local cost of consultants' services and 100 percent of
the foreign cost of materials, equipment and related services for the training
program.
Benefits and Risks
75.       Because of a failure to prepare hydroelectric projects in the past,
Peru now faces the need to install thermal generation plants to meet growing
demand for power. The proposed preinvestment studies loan would help finance
the quick preparation of projects, most of which entail hydro generation, and
would enable Peru to reduce investments in thermal generation during the 1980s.
This would, in turn, curtail the use of expensive petrolelum derivatives for
electricity generation. By strengthening ELECTROPERU's planning capability,
the project would also support an important institution building activity,
which would help head off a repetition of the present situation where the lack
of well-prepared hydroelectric projects will necessitate making costly thermal
plant investments. The principal risk is that ELECTROPERU will not be able to
implement organizational and managerial improvements quickly enough to oversee
execution of the power engineering project in a timely manner. The Government
has already laid the basis for strengthening ELECTROPERU by making it a State-
owned commercial enterprise, which would be able to pay better salaries. Both
the IDB and the Bank (under the proposed loan) would be providing technical
assistance to ELECTROPERU to help increase its capacity to carry out its
responsibilities, thus reducing this risk to acceptable levels.
76.       This project poses no environmental risks.  All studies would
include environmental impact statements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between ELECTROPERU, COFIDE (which under
Peruvian law must be a party to all agreements providing for external loans for
public enterprises) and the Bank; (ii) the draft Project Agreements between
HIDRANDINA and the Bank; (iii) the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN and of Peru and the Bank; and, (iv) the Report and Recom-
mendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 19 -
78.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for
engineering projects. The main features of the draft Loan, Guarantee and
Project Agreements are referred to in the text of this report and are listed
in Section III of Annex III. A condition of disbursement for the portions
of the project to be carried out by ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN and HIDRANDINA
would be the signing of their respective subsidiary loan contracts (each
satisfactory to the Bank) with ELECTROPERU.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                              MNNa I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICA7ORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (liEIGHTED AVEEACFS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)_
TOTAI           1285. 2
AGRICULTURAL      305.5                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAli            EUROPE
CNP PER CAPITA (USi)                   230.0        410.0      730.0                1562.9                     2149.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       445.0        619.0     649.0                 1055.9                     1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPnLATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       10.2         13.5       16.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3           57.4       65.6                  63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         29.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 101.                         8.0         11.0       13.0                  28.1                       77. 2
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND       33.0         44.0       55.0                  RI. 7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (vrRCrST)
0-14 YRS.                           44.2         45.0      42.9                   41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         51.9      53.4                   54.7                       61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.8          3. 1       3. 7                  3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.6          2.8        2. 7                  2.7                        1.6
URBAN                                4. 7/c       5.0        4.5                   4. 1                       3. 3
CRRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0         43.0       39.0                  34.8                       22.P
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.0         15.0       12.0                   8.9                        8 9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1/d        2.9        2.8                   2.5                        i.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANINUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0        102.0      85.0                  106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIR10IENTS)                    95.0         99.0      97.0                  107.4                      125. 3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            62.0         61.0       59.0                  65.6                       91.D
OF WHICH ANTMAL AND PULSE         27.0         25.0      24.0                   33.7                       39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.0         20.0       16.0                   8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTS (YEARS)    48.0           53.0       56.0                  63. 1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        122. S0/      ..                  66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         35.0      47.0                   65.9
URBAN                                 ..         58.0       72.0                  80.4
RURAL                                 ..          8.0       15.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *          36.0         ..                  62.3
URBAN                                 ..         52.0         ..                  79.4
RURAL                                 ..         16.0         ..                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2251. 0/f    1859.0    1556.0                 1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2205.0/f      738.0      745.0                1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              424- 01S     470.0     547.0                  480.3                      289.7
URBAN                                 *         425.0
RURAL                                 ..       3144.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         19.n         ..                    ..                       17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.9          4.9/h
URBAN                                4. 8         5.1/h
RURAL                                4.9          4.7/        ...
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROQlM
TOTAL                                2.3          1.9/h
URBAN                                2.0          1. 7/h      .
RURAL                                2. 7         2. 4L        ..h
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               26.0         32.1/h
URBAN                               50. 7        54. 3        ..h
RURAL                                4. 0         2. 7/h



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  2  of  5
PERtl - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGIITED AVERA5ES
- !OST RECENT ESTIMATI) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
FRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        107.0     110.0                   99.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0        114.0      115.0                 101.0                     109.3
FEMtALE               71.0         99.0     106.0                   99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 1.0          30.0      52.0                   34.4                      64.0
MALE                  L8.0         34.0       56.0                  33. 5                     71. 1
FEMALE                13.0         26.0      48.0                   34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  20.0           17.0       23.0                  38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-rEACHER RATIO
PRtMARY                             34.0         40.0      40.0                   30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                           12.0         23.0      23.0                   14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0           ..       72.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0         17.0      18.4                   43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         110.0        137.0     131.0                  245.3                    192..2
TV RECEIVERS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         30.0      38.0                   84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        124.0       96.0                  63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        ..                     ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3187.8       3909.3    4980.4
FEMALE (PERCENIT)                   21.0         20. 7     23.9                   22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               53.0         45.0      39.0                   37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.0      21.0                   23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.3         29.1       29.2                  31.5                      40.9
MALE                                  49.2         45.8       45. 3                 48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                13.2         12.1       12.8                  14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1. 7       1.6                   1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.01i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4/i         61.0/h
LOREST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. 5/i         1.9/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0/i          7.0/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     235.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     180.0                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     293.0                  474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      200.0                  332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOU POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       49.0
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971: and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1956-61;  Ld 1960-65;  /e 1970-75;  /f 1964;  /x 1962;  /h 1972;  /i Personal income vithin labor
force.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22 -                                                      ANNEXI-
Page 3 of 5
tIiEfIITIONt hi fSOCto INDICATORO
hence   Although thedat  -  dros  from  sobe en.f ugltees   ototeteadrlal,i   hadas   he-nd that they may to  he fa-r-
onooni-ly  -nnpanable becus  of the lank of II-andardleddfenosand con-ets used by differenttcni. tie  in tohltetiog the data.  iht data are, nose-
bthe-s,  -sfub te descrbe orders c  sagnitude, indictet trends, atdohaaeeeeoeoit ssfor diifros betwee
The ref-seeo  gropy  are (1) the same on-try gro-y of the snh)eot Io...rry and (2) Atosr               Iaot   oAnhc   Igaavrge  tom   than the on-try grant
of thsoIcor.  cotnry fecpe for 'Carata1 Sorelna 0il topertera  steo where 'ftdeinoehah  fiaad tt'd'dletaEt7  fe ober-  hb-s-  at at-ag-
doe ind Isntlto,n tnct "''          hacamtc   te ratetg a..nc  nig.   ofne tedLnate  to acotthe   These anerage  tee onty ..meni ha onparhig the e-hac
ni nsa indintor atenm   ace.n oonyad eet                    -e ony..
LAND dAtEA (th-netd sq.km.)                                                                 ron.atanon par Phystotas- fecPta-1- dsndeg by nomas  II pr-ttOntag phy-
fe  T  otal  -nrto  area ..sprietre hand area and inl and eaer.                          ttas  nai ted free.  a. meta  ath--  at netn-rafty tenet.
nArtontoorti   hatiteat  at aer-ton ..naa II areausd tmperarh  an percratty               Pauhnta e.       trsaccaer    acaane  dietded by rneehe  at pesattatag
on o.o... yasnI s.meker and hioangrdens or to lits fatten; ti77 data.                      aha end feeageadnas  caress,.P            ".ra....aI  .as   .. .taats "s caress
Pepetttisone tarceaitat fed - tett.er= c  ead carat - PepaItafir  (tetat,
herP yinCAIiyiA (iS$) - nor per Oaritt  a-tsaotra at onee         aket caoe,  a-              srbaa,..cd  -se1) dtntdmd by theta e-p-etis sabee of heiteat bade
ocleted by sint Ino m tthmbd as Woeald sash Anita  (19ff-hg bests); ith0,                   aeha Le inPnttI and pinnate gecea, .t ad ep-italied hasPital and ne-
1970, act  fL99detn.                                                                        ftebfilltatitaOsnnts,  inspitals are estblishm.eats asmest    tffed
INER   COMS~~7TPTCN'PER C~.%ITA  It            -.IgY (It.1             by at1 leat ac  phystetan.  Estbli.shents previdisog pafacicatly asenedial
tafth  tfltf'Ttt  ttCOPiA- tncl tcsaptenef  eseroalenegyfagt           atear  ran inolded,  hrat. hespitala,hee,  isatade health end mditac
end  igitete  cetann._  tnnas Ia  esd hydee-,. ...es  anIg- btml  te-norcst Permcenty3 staffed by apyitn(c   yamdataseet
ntoitny) to kitbogram  of coa  eqinalent yea ..chn.; ifhi  i970  an   9fans,mdif,at)ob                                      fe  in-tesecaedtnmdprnda
dasa.                                                                thetan~~~~~~~~...    .drng f.  hadgoa     ff-eitie .tcrirstee a, d cties and e  heepi-
d-I                                                                  lini~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~td. Inehad  odff a cinetl  gee .lad acetti_lneed . haetl, sat mcpcf
PocCIdlIot0000 thintinihifit                                  has0ttet  lanai atraret hasItaeAnd -ptest ed hacptaror   enters.1
Total cepcleni-s ff0-fete lantili.nna  - he of JohY 1; 196i, 1970, aed 19ff               Aoditst... car Heactitel had - Tatal somber at adehestee  ta es di.ehacegee
date.                                                                                     teem  h.scPitsl dittid.  b-y the camber oi beds.
Orba0 tc'tine .ca..... n f "tonal  - ttt  nf  baebe  ne natal enpmlathon;
differ..ss dfib tnf -aa ofrhan areas say afttet oInp...bility ef dton                 ggUSING
asngoenstricIS; 19Eo  1970ti, And 197 8 data.                                           deereac ties af gHnahni   reet  aeeoe d) - tent.l nehac  sad nest-
tecaLasie treeotat                                                                          A hn,.ehe.   enit  aia       fma       L. tei'h i  she sba   lining qacetete
caaithe  n  ea  I  t   Crrntcaotnesprjatiseer   eet  n  f it      sa   h.n  sahnmat.          sad r n  ldgar naor may set be terdadd is
total encalatter by kg. sad  -  tad their mealtely And ferthility asse,                 th  hooseboidfesnttilcopes
con) -tiayaaetn  far marthitsy rates                   ofcesea  thassI.. 1   -imelseason-   traemban ofrten  rntoe  nan                 b"u'c sad  ....l - A.en...    s-
log fife ety-nany at btrth inno....tog athb -eetey'ee p ca..pt.a taae                   he   iynss e        Iss  a   l nrba, sad rec  arapied nageectiessl
teet  ad Teat fieasetanay  -beilistng at f. 5 yas   The car-                        dsias   ecoisy geiageold   rnperann  sn"cte    a
esters a for.Tui.ty" rte else have thes  tenets esaming declita  te41i,                               ''il.Wlin..Id'-a,a.-
fertility  -oorditg heton i evsl sa,I d camt famity yta-Jar  cpeatnaIrce..              no.n.e    et
Iaof t                                                         A.k...~~~~~~~~~~~~~enssr t.nE-ttiaitc )trareat of dwIlithsm      etal. orbas, sag rot    -
Bteh ..o-try isteL     ssgedaeef t...    he as shcs aebi-enfae ef natteihty             tsnner-ess ..Iw     sgaith  IlonIteitv  .In lite.  tameness as pereeiage
end fertility trends The etaheoti_e cP..?eI.                                            ef tonal, nabsa, and renard1 tl rgstspe-ti-ey.
ircttnay preulatiaa-ioaetatios..ay yepntmnten share tagso genth shete
the hbith cane it equal te the death ease, and also the ae aeture as-    EDCiAiTIO
...c catna.   hibisLa achnind oly after fsrslltny rates deohina to                afsmficlamtcco
abs reict          -1 ec  of unit net repnadnctie  cane, when ...h gersto               yh.ys.ot-toa,mIm and famei  - trees tntal, male sand femal
of "a  a   eIIta   tel   nol.The "t'oPt sctta   afre- as                                    nnl t at sit ages at tha pritnay te1a-1             eetaga         seeae
-snimasa  en the baste of the pr0) cte.d theacnsertsYi'tio  ef nhaiencehasien             pratmr   oba-gapptthn;gaal    ecam  eids  age  hi-
to the Ys-e2h0t, and the rate  Ef dectiar of frtitljty rate ta reclate-                   yea.rsyu   deae   e  dhffacegasPplngtm  atIl    enacts. etneetims  far-1
Itet has: been rarhtt
Y-np tltion    -              L    eced-T.y-ha     .i.l pipeshty                            hmanada.ansche  -itoe-1 mal act timaa   temynnad..       as shede;setasdsec
fat e.  Mu.-aid-year yaceltitte  yea aqaae  kiltemte  (if i heo-e) af                       ynrnd..    ge ar      t noon..a.  at teach at.I   fcaiata  dntctt-a  fat-earth
fee to  a.  ag   1atee      -ed - teacand co-aon  fo a,          mact1 land                 osedlty a   it   fyaaedae.eesedsecors   r   eeat
O5il                                                                                    inattaal rcnim"n  ( acktrtf s...ne)   ictim...l i.tist.tiatt
fnreatin  Ageisactar  innceat  -  htildem   (i-ic years), anengae                     aiode tmchsicati eath.n   te  er-se  athecb ace.tat  iedefte
ft isare),  nd nerteed  hi yacee ad onc). a  peretatges of mid-year enen-          det    no asIcrmrne   eodr    nttnns
lentos; 196h, 1970, and if97f dens.                                                       daanitalye   ondIn-t-  htec, cad sendary i-titotseet   salth
innnta  cot_at  nrts)-pee  - nA-asl grot h rates of tesel aid-                                 -eneyan  mcsaay l-eLa dinidad by nembers at-nehens he she
Ym-  yaroIetl... f. me9i0-hi, 1f60-70, and 19f0i7f.                                         nnts    -rfg  sd.
teRRoLette  tr th bare famacen) - arhee - Ann-e  taoh rates ef ether inch-                   Adoltt ifnatyr rata (Peecent) _-Lis-rat  stair  fahla en read sad -ift.)
fattens toe 195f-h0. 1960-70, and 1f70-78.                                                   Ispereanago  of issa1 adolt yaolt            ge  ii years end anna.
Crude  i tth iata fre  Ihe...ed) - A-..I tIne births p etc  h-sed of mhd-ya..
yccc--1iath; 1960, 197i, and 1978 date.                                                CONSattIONf
Crde heath Sola tier athonused) -A A.e..  deaths cPe theosed  t cid-year                                                                P...a.Cr.tm   tnso  cclena    fasget tate omaytam. anIa
pcoyntalta; l9ft, f1T7t, and 19ff dmt.                                                    noes seaing lest that   i egt Iynes; enctdes  ahte he. oerass.sd
tres fecadenhntosAnmesgo nuber of e-ghentraoeI    antil bear inLlrr  nthls
her roaca  reernd-ti-n  yeaisd if a. be ecemiencs Ptsnt  gs-apeo. fi  .ta-              RIdan eacecir  (cc thnoa..nd ns...tatia) - All ye tPatfI. ae -fer   or mc  AdJ
atIIIy rates; uoI ..hy fin-y-m   a-rges coding to 1960i  1910,  n                          eaost   ognr)Aolccrtond d19f7nctanon;saldesfsalt-
I.."   tnoe-Acnnr,  Onoa  (hrsafa   - eAnosl cambo  of acosensee                             ca-sd-tsoetnee-aoooepblia    i yearslll  soe cegI nastos of.  thnse
of hirnh--tnnol de-ioms orde  t-phoe- of aathoc1 feaily plenoing progre.                  ass inetfeon; date foe recent yann  ney non be c-ncehi  siaa mast
tetyfaaoshanfrmeso  meteRedons   -Itonstrat  of mencgd                                      cantomsahhiod ihom...tin.
anme  of thild-bearcng age (ti-t44ens  ohm ose htat-tntco  dZee  t                      itoanr  (pe a noacod    ei-ns)-lirceesforbsdatn
af ietld anaci  he sas age  Pen.                                                      gs-to1 pcbhIc  pan eh-ased papelacios; n-lide- anl;coaad iTVroem
horennhaaandisyearshk -beeiht-tan        osf iTV msat wa  is effec..
FtOD cIN itiTLIO th;csaa   helne   nrtesoad  2poelatise      ha  the  nerege cears--
inden of coed P-ednotina err Cepita (1969-f71it)-10                                          tic.s.e cct  ase   nonf "dtiiy geeal ritatrt acsae"   afhe   seyatdclpb
yhdnctie- of a11ft  nd c-mdhita-   craduete    acdesIa-d and f cod end                    Iitnetto  denend cri-may tI .....ading geneaf mews.ft is In...hdered
LIs or calendar year ba.ste   Coseo-ditiss c      pom ineatygad  (g.  saeshe              to ha  dety'"t  racena i           reatIf-otma ek
iheneod nf sogar) eb1ich sac odibl.An tad .nmtala nntin.te  )rg. neff me                           .. Ciem    o Atatneodante ye  Cayf o ye iee-ease:d  a the caber nf
tea ae saiuda).  Aeaseas cad-otien of each roonry ha baed  5tiktssd                             docing thn year, ict,idhg eeesoate datn-ta nIsama
stiona  anoag  pooe  pates weights; l9ot-f5. if70, end 1fi8 dat.                            d        .i
.- ooc seIc of oire  feRec-t e   aormna                  Cemented fcnadmbtents
noargycqofealees of ear foed aecelihe   -nelahle ira cneatry Pec eapite             LhiOR  ORiCE
err day.  Anatisbie scepp scILI      issdaneain phadoctin, LOePrO  less               Tatal Labor Fe-c  (thnomsmda) - conco-cait  attir   eaeos  1ftdiag
syrt, acd oheane  ha set..k   Net sopplima  nrinde ecica  feed, sedt,                 rnad  tenro  and 1, oe yhyd hot sachadieg hoasefes * staItea  Itt,,
qaeotitias need in foand erne...aag, and I..... to distatbntins.  tequtte-           -tefita.ntie   tonrineI _soaare  ac  to. .te          rhs;190  i97f and
cet   ee  s.fte-d by t At base d es ehysieleginel aede fee s--me  act-              ff78 dare.
c   hiedbethb o-ridering moinemco-tal teapanantca, body n_ights, age              aae(eoa)-cet   ao   nocs   ara co  oa   ao   et
and en di orhts   f coeelatJ... and a11ias 9e 10 perce..t for easte en                Iniser  nret       so   oceh   oig   aany   ote   n
bncaonid tnal;  0ff-h, if t, an  iffydets.                                   fishing a   yecotg       f itotl labor fame; if60 1t9f0 and 197f data.
te Io ttasuely st  -earaf  (grams 2cr dent - fePth or    aten      P', ymrtst      faemcj (ecot  - Labor fnaoa is. statef, tnsaatta  -maeteten
nets I,l of font yea day,  fist syptly of feed is dci hsd as shone   he-             and elettrhtiy;,eaten and gases. yprc-tnge of sotal haher foe...; 196i
cecso _e  n  alt corthe betlithed by USDA p-aide fee minimu                        mt     170  e
aIhacocn ofb6ft gram  eft total eroott L eca day and hi greesni anmI         e        fatchotattd 19t  (pret3    otl   am   edfmi detti ica
colsa yantrer, of anach li grace sheald he astiash eresein,  Ihea   sta-d  Parthinyto. Rtoear pmyntd as natal, ache, and  tnmae laretArsa
arda on Itte  thee  he,. of 75 grams ef teta1 Preteha end 23 grac  eftk~                                  o          .:
asictyathaa A nargI to  the aeId, eroersd by t±At na the Thr                            'occer   ftt2,meeedtml   naeIeoftegaeseshty
esrld Pond  ,,ee,Y; 1ff i-hi, if970 and 1911 data,                                       19hi, 1ff0, tad if9l5 date.  ih-se arefi' IO part-ithytha  rates naflert1ag
enlace         d~~~-ay; tfdft-hi, P tef , en   iff   data     toeaci timeendey ta'tie    Pataio of  yrltnendan LS cad fi and boer
rfosenehp   yer,t   otdere to thi  ae  rae;far  -ea  danalniogn-o-
EAtPlfi                                                                                      emeIntceas  of fanP      tae(eht   sbeace) - i-raed by rttbt
lifetoratee, s  tirh (oara  -  eeras echatat  oanaet ife  emaciog 0 enac. rheee  ft  peaet, y.asrast2 Pte...teat  anod fintest 40 pecsa
athbl; l6hi, 19fi sod 1f78 date.
tetont M-ontahty Ratofor s                Aeca) -  atc  deaths a offetnaeacyar cii  aiatth
5meber of Panda (_oe,sbs  andreal oenhreaemhiecea  to eafs                                 ntnfielydo ede   teasett   em-food  eiarmsn   heomt
ase beety(none  trestsa aefeoc ca.ret  or astr..eatd bat sesatemisated                 afferdatie..  l dqIt        tp.to
eatr  ea  O  tattin retetm   bnaete,  prnt  st  satey att)        ssatedteieae enrs fame tne (otre  aets)  dbs bt atl 
cetmnge  e   heo  seetiataeeatas,T  t  aba  raE.eblttar)ritn   enrytitigtnth    PeI,te  oPnl aeeg  yeaoetI
fonaro   thmcet ftoto-ted  notmre han cn  ocet   teaoossma Ih                      yasattaeo  h   esr.the  ee   adena    a   h   a
haes oot fen t-ias ...eattiarea c...i emoat    I. e-rat onbac  andli
came tl. -oitr of dpeap (natald I, ashen and. reed -rme by- reh...et
dhsaae  a   eceaeao  efhi  thir teepsetfee eoeattface   tactra at-                                                 Ens n,i etafnl  hate1- fite          theisa .
daset say harPade she itot     p-tiotsa   diparti ofth. dar sinhast crescet,                                         enmnfcyt  n .olrope,los  teans
p-ityafinte - an .d euela  fmes..Ie-lcnoiens,i.                                                                                      -uan             .ar    .b.It



_ 23 -
ANNEX I
Page   of 
PERU
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
A C T U A L                                                                     ESTIMATED      PROJECTED                     _       00RWTR 4ATE (9' p..)                1977
________                                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ of
1965            1970           1975           1976            1977           1978 L/        1979 B/       1980            1985                         1965-76   1976-78    1978-85                GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS_
(sill-ons of -U dollere et 1977 prices)
.ro.. Oosestio Prodnct                          9046.7         10759.9        13403.2        13718.9         13639.6       13795.6          14247.6       14685.5        18695.9                          3.9        0.3        4.4                 100.0
Gnioc f-oa Terse of Trods                       -610.9           130.0         -246.9         -179.4             0.0        -186.3            467.9         804.4          501.2                                                  ,                   0
Grooe Dom-stic Iaoone (4DY)                     8435.8         10889.9        13156.5        13539.5         13639.6       13609.3          14715.5       15489.9        19197.1                          4.4        0.3        5.0                 100.0
Ieports                                         1840.2          2190.1        2985.4          2697.7          2706.8        1868.3           2135.4        2742.2         4240.8                          3.5      -16.8       12.4                  19.8
Exporte                                         2314.3          2616.8         1906.9         1908.8          2129.5        2355.1           2846.8        2655.3         3126.9                         -1.7       11.1        4.2                  15.6
Export, Terms of Trade Adjoeted                 1703.4          2746.8         166o.o         1729.4          2129.5        2168.8           3314.6        3459.7         3638.1                          0.1       12.0         7.7                 15.6
ROoore- Gsp,Tera-  of Trade Adjnetsd (-:=saplno) 136.8          -556.7         1325.4          968.3           577.3        -300.5         -1179.2        -717.5          -602.7                           '                                             2
Total Co=or.ption                               6605.5          8735.3       11339.7         11766.6         12172.2       11505.3          11588.3       12392.3        15183.5                          5.4       -1.1        4.0                  89.2
loeseteent                                      1967.1          1597.9        3142.0          2741.2          2044.7        1803.5           1947.9        2380.1         3410.9                         3.1       -18.9        9.5                  15.0
Do-estl S-aviogc                                1830.3          2154.6         1826.6         1772.9          1467.4        2104.0           3127.2        3097.6         4013.6                        -0.3         8.9        9.7                  10.8
/ prelimiosry
PRICES IN US DOLLARS
(1977 = 100)
Roport Price Ilden                                52.9            46.5           87.4           90.6           100.0          101.3           14Z.4
IDport Price Indea                                44.7            44.3          100.4           95.7           100.0         110.0            122.3
Tereo  f Trade Index                              73.6           105.0          87.1            94.7           100.0          92.1            116.4
A-onAl Avsrage EsoisnMe Rate (Soles per N)        Z6.8            38.7           40.8           57.4            83.81         156.3           224.6
OUTPUT, LABOR POROE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN                                     GNP by Sectr                                                             Labor Force                                                       Labor Producti'ity
1970 PRICES                                  IO MAl. of uS Dollor-          Percent of Total                  7r-thRot         On lc nds                  Pero-ot of Tctl                GOroth Rats                    in US Dollars          19 of Avera       GroWoth Rate
17199                        17                2210-91970  1979      1970            1979              1970-79           1970           199                                                     197-0  1979  1970-7
Agriocltore                                   1534.2           1536.6         17.3           13.Q                 0            2011.9      2222.4           40.0            40.8             1.1                 762.6            691.4         36.1    31.9   -1.1
Iod.otry                                      3226.3           4476.5        36.5            38.0                 3.7           769.1       1005.3          18.4            18.5             3.0                4194.9           4452.9        198.6  205.4      0.7
S-rcice-                                      4084.8           5780.6        46.Z            49.0                 3.9          1407.6      2Z12.9          33.6             40.7             5.2                Z90Z.0           2612.2        137.4  120.5   -1.2
Tote1/A-er-ge                                 8849.3          11793.7        100.0          100.0                 3.2                      944016         10               100.0             2.9                2111.8           2167.7         OO.O   10.0      0.3
CE0NTRAL GOVENMENT FINANCE                                                                                                                                                       Pro,ectrd
(a6 percent of Curreot GLP)                   1965             .7Q         1975             1976                 1977          i976        1979           1980            92
Curreot Rev-nue                                 15.2             i4.6         14.0           13.4                13.5             14.5       16.6           19.4            19.4            19.5
Correot Expeodit-re                             12.4             02.1         14.4           14.8                16.9             15.7        14.0          16.o            16.7            17.2
Current S-ingo                                   o.8              2.5        -0.4            -1.4                -3.4            -1.2         2.6           3.4              2.7             2.3
Copital Eopeoditore                              3.9              3.7         4.5             4.5                 3.5             3.1         3.9           3.9              3.9             3.9
External Resiotanne (Net)                        1.0              0.5          2.3            1.8                 3.0             0.4        -0.2           3.4              n.a.            n.e.
CUERENT EABENDITURE DETAILcI                                   Actonl                                                         DETAIL ON                                 1977/2  -eveioept Plan
(a8 percent of Octal Correot E-xpend.)        1968             1973         1976            1977                 1978         PURLIC SECTOR                            OS NMi97 iAooWX660
INNEBIMIT PROGRAM
Educotion                                       30.6             27.9         10.9           18.1                16.1
050100                                           9.0              6.3          6.2            4.7                 6.0          Agriooltcre                                1262.2            19.6
Agricultur-                                      3.6              4.4          1.8            1.3                 3.4          Induotry, Toriom 06d Mbinig                1375.1            21.3
Otior Eoono=ic Servic-a                          3.2              4.0          5.2            3.2                 2.7          -nery                                      1794.4            27.8
Osneral Seroiceo (inc. dofenc.)                 46.4             42.7         46.9           54.1                45.2          Transport ad  C-omanasation                 892.4            13.8
Intera-t on DAbt                                 5.4             11.3        io.8            15.1                24.1          Socic1 asd Lecal Intereet Projec-t         1128.3            17.5
Oth-r                                            1.8              3.3          6.2                                2.5
Tottl Current Ecpendit-rea                   17Q.0            100.0        100.0          100.0               100.0          T.t.1                                      6452              7oo.o
MONEY AND CRE0IT                               922             1974         1975            1976                 1977          1978        2979
(Millions of Soles cctntsndiog
at the end at period)
Money -nd  .uasi-Money                        98268           119996       141766          166296               220453        321200       615699
Bani Credit to Public Sector                  27234            26898        49710          101399               198854        087700      20229
BDnk Credit to Privte Seotor                  73089            84512       108234          134536               173772        239300      339509
Money co percent of GDP                        25.0              24.3         22 6           20                   19 3           17.1       180.
Ocoannor Price Index no 2Rleo (1977=100)     37.5             43.9          54.3           72.4                100.0         157.8       264.7
Acni-- peroentogs chisne iA:
COonceer Price Ilden in Roles               9.5             16.9          23.7           33.5                 38.0          57.8        67.7
hn-k C-rdit to Pbl-o Sector                53.7             -1.2          84.8          104.0                 96.1          44.7       -26.3
Rook Credit to Priv-te Sector              27.7              15.5         28.1           24.3                 29.2          37.7        58.6
Ecy 0901



Page 9 of 5
P100
A    0 02 001.03401 OF P6060006  1972         1973        1~~~~~ ~~97'.  1975     1976         1-9-77    -19q76      - 0979                               6980            1965             6990
Laoro   1.odA6c ,PN)                             1152.9       1367.2      1979.2      1674.6      1769.6       2137.6       2399.9      4066.6                           645.1.           6704.4           62949.4
Imports (icccdici  471F')                            1602.9       1460.0      2662.3      3022.0      2626.0       2694.4       2070.1      2619.2                            5917.6          7865.2           07985.4
---orc -    Boo, (deficit-)                             5.0       - 57.6      4634.6    .134c7.9      -883.4       -556.6        529.0      1c47.2                             591.3           619.2          -1036.9
N., Pocic  Serice Ilcc                                -120.9      -160.9      -216.5       -240.5     -366.4       -426.4       -577.7       -877.3                           -793.6         -1211.7           -1871.1
Nac Iccer-t r ~.p.et                               - 76.2       -160.5      .175.8      .214.0    -524.0o         37.         -5166.3      -4633.                           407-o.                            14.
Of etich cc poOlOc 04645 lace.        - ~~~~~52.0     93.1     -613.2      -106.6    .190.)         24.          -31.29c5.3                                    c75             -6.              12
Nl reot Occcctlr.                                       67       -02         -a.           26.53      4.            54.5       - 61.4      .264.0                            -307.9          -576.7           - 729.7
c0   orc  facfr                                   39.2        42.1         95.1        19.9       57.9         56.6          56.0        96.0                            622.3            149.2            219.2
-occ   c  ore  Acotot                           3 5.7      -191.6      4805.5     -1536.6   -6291.9         -926.2       -191.9       663.9                            7-7.0           -203.5          -2666.9
Nec  ircc  Oo-jgc  O,ca..c_t                            2c.2        49.4       043.6        )5157      070.6         54.,         25.0         62.1                           -20.7             76.0             153.0
Hec Pblic 604T LOc- 
lla6oraos.oc                          260.0       667.c      1076.0~~~~~~~:   1060.2 134.4        1026.         _4.         130.                             195.6           1970.1          4525.2
laorcooltott               .130.4      .354.9       -316.9      -249~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~.04  -305. 4 .-06.4  -246.7    76.2                             .85460         -1996.0         -99.
Na  Broao                                           149.6       362.5       75.S3.                   3.          6200          ss.         6o.
Nat  Ile  4603. be-o                                                         7-.           3          3            2.           9.           6                               596.6           624.0          2735.2
loaoor.t,eoo                           20.1        67.6         60.5        64.~       07.9          74.3 60.9 47.4                                            93.166                            50.
Oerloidc                                      -  0.          a 56.       47.6      -567       -75.2        -74.4        -73.0          76.2                           - 99.6.                           233.4
Ne-t OOr6ioo                                           0.          9.5         32.7        27.6       12.7        .01          -13.2          3.2                              6.0              5.3            60.1
AoctreCpiNtal                                     23.7      -124.7       703.5       -150.0    -551.0        - 7.5         -7~5.5       160.6                            350.0              0               0
Ocher Capita  (0.0)                                  -64.         - 91.6      - 90.5       - 105.6       0            0         -260.          65.200
C-age.i St.-are.cree)/- 50.4                                      - 13.3      -261.6       530.1       520.4        349.7       - 02.0    -0576.9                            -659.9           -262.0           -106.
loyal of Reacroc (at and of the 6.0460) 0/  6600.5   403.6        695.2       165.1    -35.3         -705.0       -6253.0       995.9                           1615.6          3016.53          '.t45.3
tcaloocOmOF 08a60                       ~~~~~       ~~~~~ ~~~~197-2  163 17   9?5        1976         /977         1976        1979                              1960            19 7     197-76       17-6           174         95         0
75.1        61.         96.6        165.5      219.3        103.4        162.9        096.0                            274.1           666.7    50.7          -15.           223       6.          6.5
006er  -c.lc  oade.                                     15.9        63.5        61.4        84.5       6264         14-5.1        90.1        057.7                            193.6           4.5.6     67.9         -156           2.        5451
etae.-  -rd. cod  eric-tice                         37.3        t7.i         99.4       267.4       26.          26.            50          000                                                       6.          .65.            .4         :4.        0
Octereedlate gaada       33c.6        539.6       566.1       962.6       602.0        62w.9        552.7       719.9                           1999.6           2506.4     15.6 .532      5.9.9  296.6          23.2831.6
Osplcol goOde                         197.4      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~317.7  469.2  750.0  675.2  466.    6564         676.9                            925 .0          639       3.              76          2.       23.6        25.7
1dcc -et  ct  l-soctar  &tid                 151.7       1996.0      636.5        160.1      265          07.1         52.36.                                         6.5606                    932.6                      1.        76         1.
Oltal oohet (a.a.o.1                     662~~~~~~~~al.0  1032.9  1908.9     2390.1    2160.0        264.          6060.5      2052.7                           3035.8          6464.6     26.0           62.7         22.1     6a.         6.0
N cOco   eeoc290.9                                                 360.1       5s5.4        656.9      sa6.o        550.4        469.6        566.3                            660.o          1420.6     16.1         -5.7           17.      19.         160
Tctal ecoda cod  -a-f-cto   .rcJ-e                   1160.9       1460.0      2462.3      7022.0     2626.0        2694.4       2074.1      2619.2                           5905.6           7065.2     24.2        -11.            20.1   .160.6       66.
riaheeal                          209.5        137.7       201~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.6  o553  177.  170.0        091.6       237.                             16.86.                       .             .            5.6      6.6         3.3
Ocffte                                49.1         63.6        3i4.6       53.2       100.0        196.3        106.2        244.0                            163.4           266.'o    19.6       - 29.0            6.6      9.2         3.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  1  :  :  16  11:
Othe  acotrlcae1.6                                                 203.7       357 .1       385.6      260.0        17.6         16.           11621.                                           650.7     0.7            .    2906.54           .  ~
lerater                                  o66.a       325.0       sco.0        155.7~~~i6    2270      132.          cR6. 6      667.5                             0.             316         4.6          34.2         06.5     a6.6        15.4
lOiter                                 61.2        79.3       090.9        146.5      145.1        172.5        206.9        569.2 3                          567.6           662.6     24.6           19.          22.6      719.
Otarocal7643                                                         92.0      262.9       203          166         355.7        296.        6Ol.0                             603.475.6                 039          -3.51.                  0..
l6trleo, col.acdcercatata61.5                          00          7.           75         53          5.            7.         665.                             797.0           8562.80    60.2          63.7455                24         a
cacocoocortd 0oola  -              32.7         65.2       156.5       105.2       133.0~~~~~4  22.7          501        17.                               7.             0609. 32.557.                          26.      60.3        21.4
Sot-i tcc60                             ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~      ~~945.  0131.6  15032 9 290.6  3135.5  1372.6      69606      37.36.3                                            56.09.1.3                             21.      60.         66.69
toc-caccor    taroicca  207.9  255.4  525.0     563.5      565.0         617.2        459.3       591.6                            630.6           1166.4     06.7           9,2         14.3     19.3        13.4~~~4.3 .  57.6  3-9   3 5  14.  l5 .
50 101  oe     cod   00c -fatr arie                  1109        16.          662         1674.1     1734.6       5213.02       399         46.                               5766.4                    1.              732.                 6.6.
Other eeolttlctaoal                   0           i6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.6  7589  42.0   113.4  42.1     35.5        73.443
-ocoooec                                            326.1      356.5         561.5    366.7   645365.1            276.2       525.6       Tota Det00  001: 66  0
Torcihea                                              645.6       217.2       1536.6      60q.6 151  399.5         1725.5       2164.6        of064   erod7                  16475.0          &643.0         c4         52. 5        666~.5    075.    560.0       5.
T.ccocia g tttlota                                   061.2        6561~       5660.    436974      06  16446       2199.9       6639.19      0106 4o66    ebr64536.                           2556.1      543.6         402.2       555.2  1965.63       729 76.
Otol 04440 Tacc                                      19670        in7.       1516.      567.6   1966.    1110.      50.0       109.         loeea
Ochr  4tIfLaae 004  eoco1O(                            -            -                                       -0S        .                                                    -  52.           - 913. - --- 113.2          166.5                                    199.0 -26.    375 9 3.
(0000860. 6140l- Oiobcreoo a4,)00600606044 (04616c Debt
2-.i  35:5        5413h7    386     03 645                                            eeoeo5.23.4.4                                                            7.530                 6.       63         .
Ochar Ncl4jloearal                                       96.6             i.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.              6         "'
Ocp itt.  3-027ti1.6                                                                                                                        lot. e_td1 Totldai/fc 0b.065                                     5.              .        5.4         5.3    5.93  793.4
fecol 3.003c 6040 De6c                                          55~~~~~~~1   65.i 51.51  160.9 790                                  00401630011  d0  620 05541                              3  480 2If916?   :    9  .
Otter 615SO                                                                     0                            .rte.00i. Nb   o-rt                                   c           1.60 25.4        478.7       43.63.63.9               46240.7 45-  33     72        8 42.
gt~~l  -T 1       44617       1297.4      1318.2    947.6  186a.7   lua-6    501.8          l95-.3       0.4-rt.c./ret9a3rcoo               3.14.                        603.2         602 6.9 lg             49.7     , 1.0   47.5 
0600 60e./odcae06.6.                35              1 2.5       03.6           1.6        26.6       2.5      3.0      52.5
iENS  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la  ropla.Ora  14                                                                                        3.5              1.3    03   .4  2. .2   2.5    3.   5.
~~~34.?  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     bl60  60-0./6-01 R               62.5             9.29        34.49          4.6        43.0       5.6     43.4       6.0'
h-                                         96.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lokOOr606612392                                                                                  5      ~      66           .         .        .         .
1660        T- DetOrl/Db Lervjce            6.65.                4.0           6.2         6.   5.     6 -    3,.6      3.3
2488.8                                                                            l?~~~~~~~~06Oro   46   ec/ethee  .64.  4.08194.2,      12.3      13.4      3.6      3.3
60.0   W.2     48 9      49 7      1~0-  1901 5



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at April 30, 1981)
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                           (less cancellations)
Number   Year           Borrower              Purpose           Bank     Undisbursed
26 loans fully disbursed                                         383.2
949      1973       Republic of Peru        Education             24.0          6.5
1025     1974       Republic of Peru        Roads                 26.0          0.7
1196     1976       Republic of Peru        Transport             76.5         44.8
1215     1976       Republic of Peru        Power                 36.0          9.9
1281     1976       CENTROMIN               Mining                39.7         20.3
1283     1976       Banco Vivienda          Urban Dev.            21.6         12.6
1358     1977       COFIDE                  Industry              35.0         13.7
1403     1977       Republic of Peru        Agriculture           25.0         23.4
S-ll     1978       Republic of Peru        Preinvestment          8.8          3.7
1771     1980       Republic of Peru        Irrigation            56.0         56.0
1806     1980       Petroleos del Peru      Petroleum Prod.       32.5         31.6
1812 1/  1980       Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.            15.0         15.0
1888     1980       Republic of Peru        Preinvestment          7.5          7.5
S-19     1980       SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.        5.0          5.0
1963 2/  1981       CORPAC                  Aviation              58.0         58.0
1968 2/  1981       COFIDE                  Industry              60.0         60.0
Total                                                     909.8        368.7
of which has been repaid                               165.4
Total now outstanding                                     744.4
Amount sold                           18.3
of which has been repaid           18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                     744.4
Total undisbursed                                                      368.7
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Not yet signed.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1981)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year                Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances  0.3                 0.3
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.        Bricks             0.3               0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3              0.3
1960;1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers            4.1               4.1
1962;1968  Cemento Andino. S.A.                Cement             2.2      0.2      2.4
1964;1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo           Cement             1.1      0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining            15.0              15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining             2.0      0.5      2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.               Mining             2.7      0.5      3.2
Total gross commitments                               28.0      1.7    29.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              13.9      0.4    14.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                     14.1      1.3    15.4
Total undisbursed                                      2.2       _       2.2



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; USS24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution was
still hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures. In order to resolve these problems, the project has been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage,
create a revolving fund and improve administrative procedures (see President's
memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project
execution has improved noticeably in recent months and disbursements now stand
at about US$17.5 million. Still, an extension of the Loan's Closing Date
to December 31, 1981 is now being considered.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited Government implementation capacity, the works
was divided into two stages which were financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's Memo-
randum R78-360 of February 17, 1978) and the Closing Date postponed. Construc-
tion has been completed and studies are being finished up. Since the loan is
almost fully disbursed, the Bank does not anticipate any extension of the Closing
Date.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost completed,
although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties. There were
serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component because
of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems now appear to be largely overcome and construction is now underway
on all project components. The project has been modified so as to increase
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
the financing for urgently needed road maintenance and eliminate improvement
of those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
recent economic difficulties, as well as procurement problems, have delayed
the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however,
most consultants have now been retained, and with strong support from the
current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the program has begun to
progress normally. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been extended
to end-1981.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, was delayed by about two years because of the lack of local counterpart
funds owing to the recession of the late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding
with the project with support from a supplementary IDB loan, which will help
cover part of the financing shortfall. Engineering, procurement and mine
development activities on this part of the project are well-advanced.
Construction of the mine-water treatment plant is now almost completed.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the
project by about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and
disbursements stand at US$9 million. Because of past delays, however, the
Closing Date has been extended to end- 1982.
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of
this, the Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
which would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing.
With this action and improving economic conditions over the past two
years, demand for the credit line has increased and it is now almost fully
committed.
Loan 1403-PE:  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay
in completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation
systems are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened
over the past few years, the design phase is now complete and construction
has started. The project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-li:      Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant's studies are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million
Loan of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution is now getting underway.
Loan 1806-PE: Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of
April 28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the
weak implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however,
have now begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE: Puno Rural Development; US$15 million loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date:                                 ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Initial project activities have begun but there have been delays
in satisfying the condition of loan effectiveness in regard to naming of
a project director and approval of the bylaws for the project unit. The
Bank expects these conditions to be met shortly.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1888-PE: Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project, US$7.5
million loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and project execution has
commenced.
Loan S-19:      SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project, US$5.0 million loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
A consultant is now being contracted for a feasibility study of
SIDERPERU's expansion plans.
Loan 1963-PE:  Aviation Development Project, USS58.0 million loan of                   ;
Effectiveness Date:                            ; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
This loan was recently approved and is expected to be signed soon.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being satisfied.
Loan 1968-PE:  Second Industrial Credit Project, US$60.0 million loan of
Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan was recently approved and is expected to be signed soon.
The conditions of effectivenesss are now in the process of being satisfied.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PERU
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare project:                Two months.
(b)  Project prepared by:               Ministry of Energy and Mines.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  October 1980.
(d)  Identification of Project:         October 1980.
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  December 1980.
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   September 1981.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following was agreed:
(a)  that (i) by June 30, 1982, the Government would transfer to
ELECTROPERU responsibility for power sector planning and would
transfer to ELECTROPERU all its planning staff, equipment and
materials by December 31, 1982; (ii) until December 31, 1982
when the planning unit is fully established in ELECTROPERU,
MEM and ELECTROPERU would collaborate closely in carrying out
planning activities; (iii) ELECTROPERU would, by June 30, 1982,
establish the planning unit under an organizational structure
and operating guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and agree
with the Bank on equipment to be purchased; and (iv) by
December 31, 1982 ELECTROPERU would complete the purchase of
equipment and staffing of the unit and submit for Bank approval
a training program for the unit, which it would thereafter carry
out (para 67);
(b)  ELECTROPERU would update the Master Plan at least once every six
months through December 31, 1983 and at least once every 12 months
thereafter (para 67); and
(c)  as a condition of loan disbursement for their respective parts
of the project, ELECTROLIMA, CENTROMIN and HIDRANDINA would enter
into subsidiary loan contracts with ELECTROPERU which are
satisfactory to the Bank (para 71).



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
PERU                                              Page I of 4
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS FOR ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA AND HIDRANDINA
YEARS 1978 AND 1979
… ------------1979…-                                      …
Rlectroperu   Electrolima   Hidrandina        Electroperu   Electrolima   Hidrandina
RATES OF RETURN:
Operating income to average
plant                                                                                    4.4%           8.4%          3.0%
Net income to average capital                                                              3.8%           3.3%          4.8%
BALANCE SHEET:
Debt/equity ratio                           19/81         59/41        9/91              25/75          52/48           6/94
Current ratio (to 1.0)                       1.3           0.6          0.8                1.1            0.8           1.7
CASH FLOWS
Debt-service coverage (to 1.0)               2.1           1.1          3.5                1.5            1.4           5.3
Contribution to expansion ratio - %            3            19           lt                 10             11            1
1/ Neglibible investment programs



- 33 -                                                             ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
PERU
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
STATEMENTS OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS FOR ELECTROPERU,;ELECTROLIMA.
AND TTID)RA"TNA - YFAR' l07 AM'P 1070
(millions of Soles)
--------1978…----------- - -- -…                         1979-    …         -
Electroperiu  Electrolima   Hidrandina        ElectroperG    Electrolima   Hidrandina
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation:
Operating income                               3,399         2,237            146            4,962          4,140            418
Depreciation and similar charges               1,787         1,830            137            2,627          3,491            227
Connection fees, etc.                           -              973             64              _            1,648            106
Total                                        5,186         5,040            347            7,589          9,279            751
Interest and related charges                     695         2,230             99            1,071          3,469            100
Amortization of debt                           1,792 (A)    2,280              -             3,838          3,307             42
Dividends                                        -             -               55              -              -               75
Total debt service and dividends             2,487         4,510            154            4,909          h,776            217
Net internal cash generation                   2,699           530            193            2,680          2,503            534
Borrowings                                    14,356         1,342             37           11,282          1,473            -
Capital contributions and other               55,829 (A)       673             -             8,022            790              1
Total Sources                               72,844         2,545            230           21.984          4,766            535
=e=e==        ......         .....                           ....          ---e---eGs_e
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Investment:
Plant and equipment                           73,358         2,863             57           21,348          2,841             86
Shares of subsidiaries                           975           -               -               920            -              -
Intangibles                                    1,016           _              104              764            -              _
Other                                           3,193          -               -             4,142            -              -
Total                                       78,542         2,863        -7-161            27,174          2,841             86
Increase in working capital                   -5,698          -318             69           -5,190          1,925            449
Total Applications                          72,844         2,545            230           21,984          4,766            535
Note: (A) excludes 21,971 of debt amortization by government.



-314 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
PERU
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENTS OF ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA AND HIDRANDINA FOR 1978 AND 1979
(millions of Soles)
…--1 9 7 8                …---…--------    -   --_      ____ _ 1 9 7 9 --…- - ______
ElectroperG    Electrolima    Hidrandina    Electroperu    Electrolima    Hidrandina
REVENUES
Energy sales                                     9,666          12,709          638            15,934          22,191          1,295
Unbilled revenues                                 _                586           -               -                974            -
Other revenues                                      21              28           -                 36              46            -
Total revenues                                 9,687          13,323          638            15,970          23,211          1,295
Operating expenses:
Depreciation and similar charges                 1,787           1,830          137             2,627           3,491            227
Purchased energy                                  -              5,011           -               -              7,471            -
Operations and maintenance                       2,630           1,194          114             5,325           2,192            225
Customer billing and sales                         210             621           -                389           1,043            -
Administrative and general                       1,661           2,143          158             2,667           3,817            303
Tariff compensation fund                          -                287           83              -              1,057            122
Total operating expenses                       6,288          11,086          492           11,008          19,071             877
Operating income                                 3,399           2,237          146             4,962           4,140            418
Non-operating expenses:
Interest and related financial charges             869           2,283           61            1,138            3,334             62
Exchange losses and related charges               -                153          102             -                 499            100
Non-operating income-credit                        174             206           64                67             364             62
Total non-operating                              695           2,230           99            1,071           3,469             100
Net Income                                       2,704                7          47             3,891             671            318



-35 -                            ~ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
PERU
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
bALANCE SHEETS OF ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA AND HIDRANDINA AT YEAR-EN) - 19T8 AND 1979
(millions of Soles)
------------December 1978 ------ -      ----December 1979-------------
Electroperd    Electrolima    Pidrandina    E11stroperj         Electrolima   Hidrandina
ASSETS
Utility plant in service                           35,023          60,167         8,752          41,802            88,870         15,223
Less accumulated depreciation                     15,907           19,438         3,673          18,297            36 218          6,583
Net plant in service                            19,116           40,729         5,079          23,505            52,652          8,640
Construction work in progress                     83,711            2,292            26          98,280             2,732             69
Total utility plant                            102,827          43,021          5,105         121,785           55,384           8,709
Investments                                        4,440                6            47           5,358                56             47
Total fixed assets                             107,267          43,027          5,152         127,143           55,440           8,756
Current assets:
Cash and equiyalent                                  775              459            13           1,816               847             53
Accounts receivable:
- Customers                                      2,499           2,483             75           3,505            4,449             305
- Others                                           781             763             32           1,630            1,333             109
Inventories                                        1,803           1,564             92           4,435            2,545             283
Prepaid expenses                 3,502                                 74           118                               112            144
Total current assets                             9,360           5,343            330          19,633             ,286             894
Other Assets                                      15,473           1,535            112                            1,341             106
Total Assets                                   132,100          49,905         5,594          165,334           66,067          9,756
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Long-term debt, net of current portion            23,837          23,106            477          35,119           26,971             541
Current liabilities:
Bank overdraft                                       193           1,813              1             174            1,983             -
Current portion of debt                            3,838           3,491            199           6,253            3,983             270
Other payables                                     3,163           4,245            219                            5,234            257
Total current                                    7,194           9,549           419          18,537            11,200            527
Other liabilities                 2,099                            1,376          -                                2,625            -
Total  liabilities                              33,130          34,031           896          57,444            40,796          1,068
Capital:
- Paid-in                                      43,948            6,938         2,770          50,797           17,209           4,621
- Revaluation surplus                           53,896           8,929         1,888          52,076             7,440          3,765
- Retained earnings                              1,126               7            40           5,017               622            302
Total capital                                98,970           15,874         4,698         107,890           25,271           8,688
Total Liabilities and Capital                    132,100          49,905         5,594         165,334            66,067          9,756
weemS:= ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ....             ......===eu et   ==t=====



- 36 -
PERUTJFX 
ELECTRIC POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT                             Page I of 1
EXECUTION SCHEDULE
Request         Sign    Complete Pre-feasibilitycr  Complete
Proposal        Contract    Feasibility Study         Tender Documents
CENTROMIN
Yuncan hydroelectric (120 MW)                          Done           Done               Done                  7/31/82
HIDRANDINA
Cahua hydro reinforcement (energy only)               Done          6/30J81         9/30181                    3/31J82
Cahus hydro second stage (40 MW)                    6/30/81         9/30/81         6/30/82                      N.A.
ELECTROLIMA
Matucana daily storage extension                     Done            Done              N.A.                    7/31/81
Yuracmayo reservoir                                  Done           7/01/81         11/30/81                   9/30/82
ELECTROPERU
Platanal hydro (81 MW)                              9/30/81         12/31/81        9/30/82                      N.A.
El Chorro hydro (150 MW)                             Done           3/31/81         12/31/81                  9/30/82
Molloco hydro (200-300 MW)                          6/30/81         12/31/81        12/31/82                     N.A.
Rio Chili reinforcement (energy only)              12/31/81  -      3/31/82         12/31/82                     N.A.
Quishuarani hydro (30 MW)                           6/30/81         12/31/81        12/31/82                  6/30/84
Rio Huaura hydro developments (339 MW)              6/30/82         12/31/82        6/30/84                     N.A.
Rio Santa reinforcement (14 MW)                      Done           6/30/81         9/30/81                    12/31/81
Evaluation of Olmos studies                         9/30/81         12/31/81        6/30/82                     N.A.
trujillo-Chiclayo-Piura transmission line           6/30/81         9/30/81         3/31/82                   12/31/82
Fuel-firedthermal (about 200 MW)                    6/30/81         9/30/81         3/31/82                   12/31/82



IBRD 15608
v. LI
SOUTH
AMERICA                                                                                               C  0  L  0    M  B  I A
E C U A D 0 R
TUMBES
QUITOS
m
V,                 0
BAAABA
0
'-CHACH OYAS
Jl_
"J)
CAJAMARCA
0
B R
PUCALLPA OC
El c ORR CA -o
E. 1Z
C-
HUANUCO
0(
A T ANTIC
CIIRO DE PASCO
A
0 C 7 A N                      H.
H
MO                               MA 'cl,
H41AA4,-A
Cal                         H   C
LI
_11JERTC)?
MALDONAD
ucHO
s b   T H
A S
0 cjzcc
Pi---                                      ABOANCAY                                 ",v
IC
PERU
ELECTRIC POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT                                                                                                                                <
7
-       220 KV T--issi- Li.os
-       132 KV Tmwiw- LI-                                                             M0111r,                            j
s                                         PUN00-1
Hyd" pt-ts                                                           0
0             St.wi.-
P-- $w R.Cr-                        N                                                       ARPUIPA
pi-mi.1 80.da,iw
bw-h-ol 8-da,-
Rvs
MO01IJEGUA
0
,KkOMETEAS*'o "O"' o'
muts
25  jO  7   10  1j$                                                                                              TA
a CNA)
72-                  7    H I L E



