Report No. 405a-JM                                                             FILE    p                     y
Jamaica:                                                                                        "WE
Appraisal of an
Airport Development Project
August 20, 1974
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted ur cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                    =  Jamaican $ (J$)
US$1.00                          =  J$0.91
J$1                              =  US$1 10
J$1 million                      =  US$1.1 million
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
System of Weights and Measures
IMetric                          British/US Eouivalent
1 meter (m)                      -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)         =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)             =  2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAJ         -   Airports Authority of Jamaica
ATC         -   Air Traffic Control
CAD         -   Civil Aviation Department
CIDA        -   Canadian International Development Agency
CNIR        -   Composite Noise Rating
DIME        -   Distance Measuring Equipment
GDP         -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP         -   Gross National Product
IATA        -   International Air Transport Association
ICAO        -   International Civil Aviation Organization
MOW         -   Ministry of Works
NDB         -   Non-Directional Beacon
REIL        -   Runway End Identification Lights
VOR         -   Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Radio Range



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF AN AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
S tTMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................... ............. .                 i - ii
1. INTRODUCTION.............                                                        1
2.   BACKGROUND    ....        ....       ..................                        2
A. General .2. .2
B. Tourism                    ...                                              2
C.   Surface Transportation Sector .......   ..........                      2
D.   Transport Policy and Coordination                  .                     3
3.   JAMAICAN AVIATION ....... . . ..         ..      . ..3
A. General                            .....                                    3
B.   Air Transport in Jamaica                             .     ..             4
C.   Traffic Forecasts .... .                              .                  5
D.  Airport Administration               .        .                            6
E.  The Airports Authority of Jamaica .                      .                7
4.   THE PROJECT ................8
A.   General .......... ....                      ..............               8
B. Project Description                       . . .                             8
C. Design and Construction. . .                                               9
D. Cost Estimates                     . . .10
E. Procurement........ * ..                             ...,.,                12
F.  Disbursement .......                              .         ..            12
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                ... ...                                       13
A. General                       ...13
B.   Sangster Airport - Aircraft Benefits.                                    13
C.   Sangster Airport - Passenger Benefits.                                  14
D.   Manley Airport - Aircraft Benefits.                                      15
E.  Manley Airport - Passenger Benefits                 .      .15
F.   Project Return ........                              .......            15
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Bostrom (Aviation Economist),
Chapman (Financial Analyst), Parker (Financial Analyst), Ewing (Aviation En-
gineer), and Flores (Young Professional), and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION . ............. .... .. ....... . . . . .  15
A.  Existing Situation ............ ...... ....... .          15
B. Financial Objectives and Financial Structure of the
AAJ **e**..t**********.   ................*........**    16
C.  Financing Plan for the Project Period ............        17
D.  Financial Projections ......    ......................    18
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................        20
TABLES
1.  Air Traffic Projections
2.  Detailed Cost Estimate
3.  Summary Investment Plan, 1974-1985
4.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.  Passenger Arrivals at Different Airports, 1971-1972
6.  Operating Results, 1970/71 - 1973/74 (for all Airports)
7.  Summary Cash Flow, 1974-1984
S.  Forecast Revenue Accounts, 1974-1984
9.  Forecast Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1974 to 1984
ANNEXES
1.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Jamaica
2.  Existing Airports, Environment and Project Improvements
3.  Existing and Future Airport Organization
4.  Details of the Economic Evaluation
5.  Typical Landing Fees
6.  Financial Forecasts - Assumptions
MAP
IBRD 10590 - Jamaica
CHARTS
IBRD 10591 - Manley Airport
IBRD 10592 - Sangster Airport



JAXAICA
APPRAISAL OF AN AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the physical and operational
improvements of the two international airports of Jamaica, for which a Bank
loan of US$12.5 million equivalent is proposed. For international passenger
travel, aviation is almost the exclusive transport mode, and it is vital for
tourism, a main earner of foreign exchange. Jamaican budgetary limitations
have curtailed major airport investment for several years, and a point has
now been reached where present airport and technical services lack capacity,
are inadequate for present demands and will constitute an obstacle to future
growth, especially of tourism.
ii.       The project is the first part of a master plan for the development
of the two main international airports: Norman Manley, serving the capital of
Kingston; and Sangster, serving Montego Bay and the leading tourist resort
area. This project is the fourth Bank project for transportation and the
first one in aviation. It consists of improvements to ground services for
aircraft, modernization of air traffic control and air navigation equipment
and improvements to passenger handling areas and other ground side services.
An essential consideration associated with the project consists of important
institutional improvements through the establishment of a new authority for
operating the two airports. Consultant services will be provided for design,
supervision and administrative systems improvements.
iii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.6 million.  The
foreign exchange cost of US$10.9 million, plus interest during construction
of US$1.6 million, will constitute a proposed loan of US$12.5 million to the
Government. The remaining costs will be met by the Government and the newly
established airports authority.
iv.       The cost estimates have been prepared by consultants financed by
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Jamaica Ministry
of Works (MOW), taking into account developments up to the end of 1973; they
are considered reasonable. Detailed engineering will be undertaken by the
MOW with consultant assistance. MOW will be responsible for the physical
execution of the project. Procurement will be largely carried out by inter-
national competitive bidding.
v.        The quantified economic benefits are primarily reduced operating
costs of aircraft. For foreign aircraft, such cost savings will be recap-
tured by the Jamaican economy through increased user charges. Non-deterral
of overseas arrivals and time savings to Jamaican residents, although less
important in terms of overall economic justification, have been taken into
account. The economic rate of return to Jamaica is 19%.



- ii -
vi.       Presently, the revenues earned by the Civil Aviation Department
(CAD) from the operations of the airports have been sufficient to cover only
cash operating costs of the department, including those of the airports and
air traffic control. Financing of capital expenditure for development and
major renewal of airports comes from the Government, which receives the pro-
ceeds of the J$ 2.0 a head passenger departure tax. For the airports to be
financially viable, with revenues sufficient not only to cover the cash
operating expenses but also to provide for future debt service and to con-
tribute to investment, the level of user charges must be raised. Aircraft
landing fees, the major single source of revenue, are relatively low, due to
the limited service provided, and can be raised substantially when better
services are available.
vii.      The Government has recently enacted legislation establishing the
Airports Authority of Jamaica (AAJ) to -oprate the two international airports
in a financially viable manner. It has proposed a capital structure, con-
sisting of Government equity on which a 7% rate of return would be paid, plus
any accumulated surpluses remaining from the AAJ's operations. The AAJ will
service debt incurred for investment, including the proposed Bank loan. Fi-
nancial projections, taking into account the forecast increased traffic and
the landing fee tariff increases proposed by the Government, show that the
AAJ should earn an adequate rate of return soon after completion of the
project.
viii.     Since Jamaica depends entirely on foreign oil supplies, the avail-
ability and cost of oil will directly affect the economy. This and other
related economic factors which will affect tourist traffic have been con-
sidered by forecasting a reduction in the rate of growth of air traffic.
In spite of this reduction and the use of higher price contingencies, the
project remains fully viable, as indicated above.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a loan to the Jamaican Govern-
ment in the amount of US$12.5 million for a term of 25 years, including a
four-year grace period. Part of the proceeds of the loan up to US$11.3 million
will be onlent to the AAJ. The AAJ will reimburse the Government for the debt
service of this part of the proposed loan in accordance with a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and the AAJ. A project agreement will be
entered into with the MAJ to ensure compliance with administrative and finan-
cial covenants. The remaining proceeds of the loan will be used by the Gov-
ernment to improve the air navigation services provided by its CAD.



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF AN AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Jamaica has requested the Bank to help finance a
project consisting of improvements to the two main airports on the island, as
well as equipment for air traffic control and communications and technical
assistance in setting up a new airport authority.
1.02      This will be the first Bank aviation project in Jamaica.  Annex 1
gives details of previous Bank projects in various sectors. The total amount
of these loans outstanding is US$97.5 million. The Bank has experienced prob-
lems in the execution of previous Bank-financed projects, although the situation
has improved in recent months.
1.03      The project has been developing since 1970.  Consultants (Kates,
Peat, Marwick & Co. and Montreal Engineering Co. Ltd.), financed under a
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) technical assistance program,
with terms of reference agreed to by the Bank, prepared the final master
plan and cost estimates presented to the Government in 1972. This, as well
as previous studies, recommended a fairly substantial upgrading of both main
international airports. In view of the Government budget situation and
national priorities, the Government decided in 1972 to concentrate on the
development of Sangster Airport at Montego Bay, with more limited interim
improvements to Manley Airport at Kingston. This was the project defined
for Bank appraisal in May 1973. Following this appraisal, further Jamaican
budgetary constraints and the onset of the energy crisis led to a redefinition
of the project at the end of 1973. The major change is that the new passenger
terminal at Sangster Airport has been deferred, pending an improvement of
the Jamaican economy and until the long term impacts of the energy crisis are
better understood.
1.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.6 million, of
which about US$10.9 million (55% of total cost) is the foreign exchange com-
ponent. The proposed loan will consist of this amount plus interest during
construction, or a total of about US$12.5 million.
1.05      This report is based on the studies and cost estimates prepared by
Kates, Peat, Marwick & Co. and Montreal Engineering Company Ltd. and on the
findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Bostrom (Aviation Economist),
Chapman (Financial Analyst), Parker (Financial Analyst), Ewing (Aviation Engin-
eer) and Flores (Young Professional), which visited Jamaica in May 1973 with
subsequent followup visits; it has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Jamaica, with an area of 4,410 square miles, is the third largest
island of the Caribbean. The country is roughly bisected (east-west) by a
mountain ridge about 2,500 feet high, separating it into northern and southern
coastal areas. The population is estimated at two million and is growing at
1.5% per annum (net of migration). Kingston, the capital, is situated on the
southern coast and is the business and trade hub of the island. Montego Bay,
on the northern coast, is a popular tourist resort. Bauxite is the country's
most important mineral although there are other mineral deposits scattered
over the central area. Other natural resources include beaches, a warm
tropical climate, rich agricultural land, fishing and forest reserves.
2.02      The mining industry, primarily bauxite, is the mainstay of the
Jamaican economy. In 1972, this sector accounted for about 13% of the country's
gross domestic product (GDP). The other big contributor to GDP is tourism,
giving a 10% share. Per capita GNP is estimated currently at about US$720,
and the growth rate of GDP reached about 5% per annum during the past five
years.
B.  Tourism
2.03      Jamaica has shown impressive growth in tourism, one of its main
earners of foreign exchange. In order to retain this growth in an increasingly
competitive market, a fairly sizable investment program has been undertaken.
Some J$ 95 million is being invested in hotels during the current five-year
period up to 1975, and Air Jamaica (the Government airline) has purchased
three new aircraft for about J$ 18 million. The Jamaica Tourist Board has had
an annual budget of J$ 5-6 million for tourist promotion and related activities
in recent years. The improvement of roads calls for a five-year investment of
J$ 101.7 million, part of which is related to tourism development.
2.04      Gross revenues from tourism have amounted to between 35% and 40% of
commodity exports in the past. Presently, the tourist sector generates employ-
ment for some 8,000 hotel employees, mostly unskilled and semi-skilled person-
nel. The expansion and development of the two international airports will be
commensurate with, and will complement, the large investments in tourism and
transportation infrastructure in Jamaica.
C.   Surface Transportation Sector
2.05      Jamaica's transportation system is generally adequate in its extent.
It serves most of the population centers, productive areas and ports. How-
ever, it can be improved in terms of capacity and condition. The road net-
work consists of about 9,500 miles of arterial and secondary main roads and
parish roads, of which 7,200 miles are suitable for vehicular traffic. Roads
are generally narrow, winding and in relatively poor condition; travel by
road is scenic but slow. Revenues from road taxes and user charges are not



specifically earmarked for road financing and have been consistently higher
than the total road expenditures. The public railway, run by the Jamaica
Railways Corporation (JRC), is 180 miles long. Because of the island's
rough topography and relatively short hauls, railway operations are costly,
and the corporation is operating at a slight deficit. The general cargo ports
at Kingston and Montego Bay handle most of the imports, while the other ports
are specialized and concentrate on exports. A J$ 41.0 million program for
improvement of Kingston as a major transshipment port is presently under way.
D. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.06      Several Government departments and agencies are responsible for
transport policy, which is to be coordinated under a new transport policy
committee. Overall policy formulation for aviation, ports, and railways is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and
Transport. Public roads policy is the responsiblity of the Ministry of Works
(MOW): planning and construction of public works are also primarily the
responsibility of this Ministry. The Ministry of Commerce and Tourism handles
policy for shipping. Financing and budgeting for all sectors are performed by
the Ministry of Finance, but overall economic planning is the responsibility
of the National Economic Council.
2.07      Competition between modes does not pose any problem inasmuch as
each mode is highly specialized. The only competition that has arisen is
between railway and road, and even this is not intensive.
3. JAMAICAN AVIATION
A.   General
3.01      Jamaica has two international airports as well as several small
domestic airports and air strips. The two international airports are
Sangster at Montego Bay, which serves the north coast and is the center of
the tourist industry, and Norman Manley in Kingston, which serves the south
coast of Jamaica and caters mostly to business and private travel by resi-
dents. In 1972, Manley handled 720,000 passengers and 50,700 aircraft move-
ments, while Sangster handled 907,000 passengers and 42,300 aircraft move-
ments. The main domestic airports are Ken Jones in Port Antonio, Boscobel
in Ocho Rios and Tinson Pen in Kingston (see Map). An air traffic control
system provides navigation aids, communications and control services; a
detailed description of the installations at Sangster and Manley is given
in Annex 2.
3.02      The rapid increase in air traffic over the past few years, with
larger and more sophisticated aircraft being used, has exerted considerable
pressure on the facilities provided and has outstripped Jamaica's ability
to upgrade the system. In fact, the funds available have allowed for only
ad hoc solutions to pressing problems rather than an overall phased master
plan program. Lack of adequate maintenance and the inability to replace,



- 4 -
rehabilitate or modernize installations has meant that, even with careful
and prudent use of the scarce funds, the navigation aids, air traffic control
equipment and airport installations have become inadequate to meet present
needs at an acceptable level of service during peak periods. The resulting
delays and inconvenience to passengers and airline operations are reaching
serious levels, and an aggressive program is needed to meet requirements for
the next few years as the first step in a long-term planning program.
3.03      Future growth is dependent on a number of factors which are now
uncertain, e.g., cost of fuel, type of aircraft and competition for tourist
traffic. It is therefore prudent to put the two main airports into good
operating condition and to defer major investment until the growth pattern
is clearer. The proposed project stresses flexibility in meeting future
needs rapidly as they may arise.
3.04      The location of the two airports is such that noise pollution is
minimized with approach and departure patterns over the sea. There is some
potential noise problem on the west side of the bay at Kingston, but proper
planning by the Government can ensure that no major difficulty occurs. As-
surances were given by the Government during negotiations regarding the
development of adequate regulations to protect the airport environment by
December 31, 1976.
3.05      The question of rehabilitating both airports rather than developing
only one as a major international airport has been considered. Essentially,
each airport serves a different market, and there is no really satisfactory
alternative of serving both these markets with one airport; thus, the project
envisages improvements to both airports to meet current market demand. The
future will probably see larger, more efficient aircraft with larger passenger
loads and a slower growth in the number of flights. Both airports will then
require additional installations to meet this changed demand more efficiently.
B. Air Transport in Jamaica
3.06      In addition to Air Jamaica, some 11 foreign airlines provide
scheduled international services between Jamaica and over 40 foreign centers.
The routes traveled most frequently are those connecting Jamaica to Miami
and New York. In addition, bilateral negotiations are in progress with
several European countries for new routes. Medium size aircraft such as
DC-9's and BAC-111's are common on Caribbean routes, with larger DC-8's and
B-707's being utilized on the long-range routes.
3.07      On domestic routes, the usual aircraft is a DHC-6 Twin Otter.  The
route between Sangster and Manley airports is also served by several inter-
national air carriers with their larger aircraft, under special agreement to
carry this so-called cabotage traffic. International charter operators
provide a small but increasing service.
3.08      The Government flag carrier, Air Jamaica, which was formed in 1968,
serves a network of over 6,031 route miles, most of which are to North America,
but direct flights to Europe have just started. The airline also provides



a shuttle service between Kingston and Montego Bay. In 1973, with a fleet
of five jets (two DC-9's and three DC-8's), the airline carried about 0.5
million passengers. It bought three additional DC-8 aircraft at the end
of 1973 and has one more DC-9 on order.
C.   Traffic Forecasts
3.09      As a result of the increased tourism to the island and the develop-
ing economy, air traffic has grown rapidly in Jamaica (Table 1). The basic
traffic forecasts of passenger and air cargo were prepared by the consultants
as well as a special International Air Transport Association (IATA) committee
and were based on such factors as past air traffic trends, current tourism
development plans and forecasts prepared by individual international air
carriers. These forecasts have been adjusted to reflect recent developments,
particularly the increased price of fuel and the impact on traffic demand
from tourist-generating countries; they cover the period 1975-1985 and are
considered reasonable. The actual and forecast traffic for passengers, cargo
and aircraft movements is seen in Table 1. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that an integrated plan for tourism development will be drawn up
by the Government by June 30, 1975.
3.10      The air carrier aircraft mix is related to the route structure and
the type of equipment operated by the carriers serving the route. Equipment
estimates were based on carrier forecasts whenever possible. Since the
plans of air carriers are not normally available beyond a five-year period,
equipment forecasts for later years were based on estimates.
3.11      Since Jamaica imports all its oil requirements, the full effects of
fuel limitations will be felt by the economy. For aviation, therefore, the
price of oil products supplied in Jamaica will reflect world market prices.
More than half the fuel for traffic to and from Jamaica will be supplied at
the airports of origin or destination outside Jamaica, such as the United
States, Canada, Venezuela or Trinidad, where the fuel situation is likely
to be better. The price of the most common fuel, kerosene, nearly tripled
during 1973 from one of the most typical sources, Curacao. Airlines can
compensate for this in two ways: one is to raise load factors and the other
is to raise ticket prices. Both have taken, or are expected to take, place.
Ticket price increases of 19% in 1974 may be followed by more.
An increase in load factors will compensate for a large part of the fuel
price increases and will also alleviate any shortages of fuel in the immediate
term. Since the proportion of charter traffic in Jamaica with existing high
load factors has been very small (7% at Sangster) so far, it is likely that
the modifications made to the original forecasts would be sufficient unless
the fuel situation should worsen drastically.
(i) Passenger Forecasts
3.12      For projection purposes, the passengers were divided into categories
with different growth characteristics. The most important group comprises
the foreign tourists, who account for a very high share of all passengers at



-6-
Sangster airport and a considerable share of the traffic at Manley. The most
important categories at Manley, however, are the Jamaican residents. Up to
1977, the annual increases for all passengers at Sangster have been assumed
at 8.3%, increasing to 9.7% until 1980 and about 7.5% thereafter; for the
total of passenger arrivals and departures at Manley, the corresponding
growth rates are 8.4% until 1980 and 7.7% thereafter.
(ii) Cargo Forecasts
3.13      Air cargo forecasts were developed both by the consultants and
the IATA committee (para. 3.09). Both forecasts give about equal overall
growth in total cargo flows, but the IATA forecast shows a continuation of
the present relationship between inbound and outbound cargo, with outbound
cargo at about 50% of inbound cargo. This forecast has been accepted for
the purpose of determining aircraft movements.
(iii) Aircraft Movement Forecasts
3.14      Aircraft movement forecasts were developed primarily by the con-
sultants. Since the forecast of the rate of gronyth of passenger traffic has
been modified downward, the effect will probably be higher load factors, the
greater use of medium size aircraft and delay in the introduction of more
large capacity aircraft.
D.   Airport Administration
3.15      The Civil Aviation Department (CAD) of the Ministry of Public
Utilities, Communications and Transport is presently responsible for the
control and regulation of all civil aviation activities iii a          including
the provision, operation and maintenance o.f aOrports and cther related facil-
ities such as air traffic controY, adAs to air navigation and oi co.itunications
(Annex 3).
3.16      There are a num_er of weaknesses in the presen_ structure and op,-
erations of civil aviation, i.e., the lack of a formal managanKer.t structure,
the absence of defined 6bjectives and of forward planning, and the need for
more effective management controls and accounting, ss well as an improved
salary structure to attract_ high caliber personnel. As a first step toward
improving the system, the consultants suggest that the day-to-day operations
and management of airports should be separated from regulatory futctions
(including the responsibility for setting standards). The fonmer will be
vested in the new Airports Authority of Ja4iaica (AAJ), while the regu atory
and standard setting functionz will remain wIith the CA".
3.17      The essential thrust of the project is to restore the two inter-
national airports to an adequate operational level and to improve th,e level
of passenger service to minimum acceptable staniards. It is of equal impor-
tance that adequate management and operational systeme -he iratituted to
ensure that sound programs for operation, maintenance, teudgetinrg, planning
and development of the airport system are formulated and e.ecutad.



- 7 -
3.18      Having accepted the recommendation to create the AAJ, Parliament
approved legislation in July 1974 to create this statutory body to manage
and operate the two international airports. In order to establish a financially
viable organization, initially only Manley and Sangster airports will be
operated by the AAJ. The small subsidized domestic airports will remain under
the control of the CAD.
E.   The Airports Authority of Jamaica
3.19      The policies and general administration of the AAJ will be determined
by its Board of Directors. The Board, appointed by the Government of Jamaica,
will take major decisions affecting the present and future operations of the
Authority and will report to Parliament through the minister responsible for
civil aviation (para. 2.06).
3.20      A general manager, appointed by the Board, will be the chief execu-
tive officer of the AAJ.  It is anticipated that he will be a Jamaican with
a proven record in a commercial management position. His appointment, and
those of the operating, financial and personnel managers immediately below
him, will be made following consultation with the Bank; this was agreed dur-
ing negotiations.
3.21      The organization proposed will require effective management tech-
niques and controls to guide its operations. These techniques, as well as
the organization structure itself, will have to be developed. The training
and development will be part of the implementation process and are included
in the project. A personnel administration program geared to the control and
motivation of a large and varied labor force is needed, as well as a level
of salaries competitive with those of the private sector. During negotia-
tions, it was agreed that a personnel administration program will be developed,
satisfactory to the Bank, including AAJ's organization, salary structure and
training arrangements.
3.22      In addition to a Loan Agreement between the Government and the Bank,
there is a project agreement between the AAJ and the Bank to cover the various
operational, management and financial undertakings.
3.23      Since the AAJ will take over the operation of the two international
airports from the CAD, changes in the CAD organizational structure are required.
At the same time, the responsibilities, authority and job descriptions of the
various officials in the CAD should be redefined in order to ensure that long-
term planning, safety regulations and other policy matters or standards in
the civil aviation field affecting airport operations are properly coordin-
ated and implemented. Funds are provided in the loan amount for consultants
to assist the CAD in this endeavor and for improving its management techniques.
It was agreed during negotiations that appropriate training and development of
managerial and operational personnel for the AAJ and the CAD would be developed
from the consultant studies.



-8-
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General
4.01      The objectives of the project are to improve the management, oper-
ational capacity and levels of service of Jamaica's international airports.
The major goals will be:
(a)  to improve ground handling facilities for aircraft;
(b)  to modify and improve passenger handling facilities
to meet expected traffic needs to 1980;
(c)  to improve air traffic control and air navigation
facilities to reduce delays and meet safety needs;
(d)  to rehabilitate and improve water, sewer and electrical
systems to meet current standards and requirements:
(e)  to develop a master plan for future development; and
(f)  to improve the management system and planning of the CAD
and the AAJ.
B.   Project Description
4.02      Modifications will be made to the existing terminal buildings at
Manley and Sangster airports to alleviate the problems of passenger processing.
Improved baggage handling and rearrangement and expansion of passeuger waiting
areas are planned, together with safer handling of passengers to and from
aircraft. A simple, separate structure will be established at Sangster to
handle charter passengers. At both airports, improvements will be made to the
water, sewerage and storm water drainage systems; also, the electrical dis-
tribution systems, switchgear and airfield lighting will be modernized, con-
solidated and arranged to simplify future improvements (Annex 2 and Table 2).
4.03      At Sangster, a new parallel taxiway, partly constructed, will be
completed and paved to reduce aircraft delays. The aircraft parking apron
will be extended to accommodate wide body aircraft. At Manley, small modifi-
cations will be made to the parking apron to provide an additional aircraft
position. Building modifications include relocating the existing passenger
finger, allowing an increase in usable apron area and a significant improve-
ment in apron utilization. The runway at Manley will be lengthened by 600 feet
to provide better takeoff parameters for Air Jamaica's long range aircraft.
Navigation aids, in the form of co-located Very High Frequency Omni Range and
Distance Measuring Equipment (VOR-DME), will be installed at both airports.
These will serve as en route aids and, specifically, will provide guidance to
pilots on approach and departure. This guidance will result in greater safety
and savings in aircraft time and will assist air traffic control. Charts
IBRD 10591 and 10592 show graphically the improvements to be made at Sangster
and Manley during the project period.



-9-
4.04      The project will also finance the purchase of telecommunications
equipment to improve air control air-ground communications in the control
towers at Manley and Sangster and the Kingston air traffic control center.
This equipment, as well as the navigation aids above (para. 4.03), will be pro-
vided to the CAD. Assurances were given by the Government during negotiations
that, by December 31, 1976, a program will be drawn up by the Government,
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter implemented, for air traffic control,
aeronautical communications and meteorologyv, including associated training and
systems modernization. New modern crash/rescue equipment and motorized runway
sweepers will be purchased.
4.05      The forecasts indicate that the capacity of the terminal buildings
will be severely strained by 1980. Since it will not be practical to enlarge
the present buildings again, new structures will be required at Manley and
Sangster to augment the existing terminals in accordance with the master
plan. In addition, the runway at Manley will require lengthening to accom-
modate long range heavy aircraft.  By 1980, the traffic will have increased
to the point where the load penalties imposed by the present runway length
will not be acceptable. The loan will finance detailed engineering and
architectural studies and design for the next phase in accordance with the
master plan, so that implementation can be readily accomplished on a priority
basis as required. It is anticipated that major new works will be required
about 1980 with a further expansion in 1985. This should provide for re-
quirements to 1995 (Table 3).
C.   Design and Construction
4.06      A project team will be formed in the MO  to execute and supervise
the project; this was confirmed during negotiations. The Ministry, however,
is presently understaffed and overloaded with other projects and will not be
able to carry out all the necessary work. The project will coincide with
the initial formation of the AAJ, which will be heavily involved in organiza-
tional and management problems, including staffing. The AAJ is not expected
to be able to provide complete project control and supervision, but will be
required to approve and accept final designs and cost estimates. Consequent-
ly, there is a need for consultants to assist the project team, to provide
design and construction supervision service, to advise the AAJ and to train
MOW staff so that ongoing airport work can be undertaken with local personnel.
Draft terms of reference for the project team and the consultants were agreed
upon during negotiations. In order to reduce the risk of delay, it is proposed
that the appointment of the consultants, and the personnel of the MOW project
team, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, shall be conditions of
loan effectiveness. It is recommended that retroactive financing be provided
for services performed by the consultants after April 1, 1974 and prior to
loan signing, and estimated to cost not more than US$160,000.
4.07      The CAD is expected to be able to furnish design criteria and
expertise with respect to aircraft operation requirements and to control the
design and procurement of the navigation and communication aids.



- 10 -
4.08      In order to ensure that decision-making and necessary Governmental
action will be expedited and coordinated, an interdepartmental committee
will be set up under the Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and
Transport with the Permanent Secretary as chairman. The members of the com-
mittee will consist of the Chief Technical Director of the MOW, the Director
of Civil Aviation, the General Manager of the Airport Authority, the Project
Manager of the MOW, the consultant's Project Director and representatives from
the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Agency. The formation and
structure of this committee were agreed upon during negotiations.
4.09      Tendering, procurement and contractual arrangements will be through
the MOW.
4.10      An extremely important part of the project will be assisting the
AAJ in its initial organization. Funds have been provided for the retention
of consultants to review and advise on management, accounting and information
systems. Funds have also been provided for consulting assistance to the
CAD for improvement of its management system. At the time of negotiations,
engagement of consultants as outlined above, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, was confirmed. Contracts, to be signed with consultants
acceptable to, and on terms and conditions agreed on, by the Bank for the
development and implementation of the organization, management and administra-
tion structures and systems of the AAJ and the CAD, respectively, will be a
condition of effectiveness.
D.   Cost Estimates
4.11      The cost estimates and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project are on the-following page:



- 11 -
J$ '000                     US$'000
Local   Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign   Tota      %
Aircraft Maneuvering
Areas              1,673    1,210    2,883      1,840      1,331    3,171   16
Terminal Modifica-
tions             1,627    1,911    3,538       1,790     2,102    3,892   20
Navaids                -        778       778       -          856      856    4
Other Buildings
and Utilities      1,584    2,011    3,595      1,742     2,212    3,954   20
Subtotal          4,884    5,910   10,794       5,372     6,501   11,873   60
Contingencies
Physical 16%         781      946    1,727        859     1,041    1,900   10
Price    15% per
annum             1,524    1,658    3,182      1,676     1,824    3,500   18
Engineering,
Supervision and
Consultants          777    1,377    2,154        855     1,514    2,369   12
TOTAL PROJECT COST  7,966    9,891   17,857       8,762    10,880   19,642  100
Locally Financed
Ongoing Works in
Project Period    1,330       -       1,330     1,463       -       1,463k
TOTAL PROGRAM COST  9,296    9,891   19,187    10,225    10,880   21,105
A more detailed breakdown of cost estimates for all project items appears
in Table 2. The Government is presently carrying out a program of improve-
ments to the civil aviation system. Ongoing parts of this program will en-
tail an investment of approximately J$ 1.3 million in the 1974/75 Jamaican
fiscal year. This investment has been shown in the cost estimates table
but will not be financed under the loan.
4.12      The amounts of various petroleum products or derivatives used in
the project will be relatively small but critical. Contractors may have
difficulty in obtaining some supplies, thus slowing production. The costs
of materials may be affected due to oil costs and anticipated high labor
wage increases in secondary industries of exporting countries.



- 12 -
4.13      A physical contingency allowance, averaging 16%, has been included
to provide for unforeseen or changed conditions that may be encountered. In
view of current uncertainties and price trends in Jamaica and foreign markets,
an average price contingency of 15% per annum for foreign and local costs has
been included.
E.   Procurement
4.14      Major civil works and certain equiprent procurement contracts will
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". It is unlikely that any one civil works
package will attract wide-scale international interest due to size, value,
labor intensity and diversity. Related project items will be grouped as much
as possible to attract competitive bidding. Foreign and local firms now work-
ing in Jamaica are expected to show the chief interest. Smaller structures
and related works contracts, estimated at a total of US$1.0 million, will be
awarded on the basis of local advertising and competitive bidding. For pur-
poses of standardization and urgency, VOR and some electronics equipment, es-
timated in the aggregate to cost about US$400,000, will be purchased directly
from suppliers.
F.   Disbursement.
4.15      Loan funds will finance consultants' services and the foreign exchange
components of construction and equipment in accordance with the estimated
schedule of disbursements shown in Table 4. Disbursements will be made on the
following basis:
(a)  55% of expenditures for civil works, representing
the estimated foreign exchange component;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures for foreign consul-
tants, or 70% of local expenditures for local consul-
tants, for consulting services, engineering and super-
vision;
(c)  100% of the foreign expenditures, or 90% of local expen-
ditures, for procurement of imported equipment.
4.16      It is recommended that the costs of consulting services incurred
after April 1, 1974 and before loan signing be financed retroactively (para.
4.06). These costs are estimated to be not more than USS160,000. Since the
CAD has already placed orders for certain navigation equipment for reasons of
safety, which may be delivered before loan signing, it is recommended that
retroactive financing up to US$390,000 be approved to provide for this even-
tuality. Any savings in the loan may be applied to works of a similar nature
and contained in the master plan subject to Bank approval.



- 13 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Jamaica depends on sea and air for all transport to and from the
outside world. With the exception of cruise ships, practically no scheduled
passenger services by sea exist; therefore, the island must rely on air ser-
vice for its passenger transport to foreign countries. This, together with
the importance of the tourism industry, makes the provision of adequate air-
ports vital to the country's economy. Due to the other pressing needs of a
developing country, the investment in aviation infrastructure has been com-
paratively small over a number of years, resulting in increased congestion
at the two international airports caused by very rapid growth of traffic with
no provision for increase in airport capacity. This congestion has reached
a point where continued growth without serious constraints cannot be accommo-
dated. It occurs at a time when substantial investment is being made for
tourism growth in new hotels and better roads, and also coincides with the
competition from a number of other tourist destinations (Table 5). There
is, therefore, a significant risk that the airports, particularly that at
?-'ntego Bay, will become obstacles to further tourism development.
5.02      The economic evaluation tries to relate the advantages of airport
traffic growth to the investment necessary to sustain such growth for a
period of time until further major investments become necessary to meet even
higher levels of traffic, toward the latter part of the 1980's. Conceptually,
the analysis has been divided into two parts, one related to aircraft opera-
tions and the other to passenger handling for each airport. The two, however,
are highly interrelated, since runway-taxiway capacity must be provided to
handle the aircraft that larger passenger processing areas can accommodate
and vice versa (Annex 4).
B.   Sangster Airport - Aircraft Benefits
5.03      The most urgent problem at Sangster is the lack of a parallel
taxiway. This has been recognized for some time, but, unfortunately, the
Jamaican Government budget has allowed only certain preparatory works of
the least expensive part of the work to be undertaken. The situation has
led to aircraft delays; these, in turn, have resulted in rebates for landing
fees at both international airports which otherwise would not have been
necessary, and, consequently, lower airport revenue for the Jamaican Govern-
ment. For Air Jamaica, which carries about 40% of the traffic at this air-
port, these delays have meant substantially higher operating costs.
5.04      The quantified benefits of the project to all airlines consist of
the aircraft time savings resulting from the parallel taxiway and improved
terminal and apron area; these time savings have been multiplied by the
direct operating costs for the aircraft in use. Certain assumptions have
been made concerning the spreading of present peaks over a longer period
of time and thereby reducing delay times. Since peaks are largely determined
by conditions at airports other than those in Jamaica, it is unlikely that
l



- 14 -
any further spreading of peaks could be achieved, but the use of peak hour
pricing, e.g., by rebates for traffic at other than peak hours, should be
further investigated at the time of implementing increased aircraft tariffs.
5.05      The full aircraft cost saving accruing to Air Jamaica and the
additional landing fees to be recovered from foreign airlines as a result
of the project have been considered as a Jamaican benefit. The additional
revenue from charges would arise from the removal of the present 25% rebate
followed by a further increase of about 50% in the existing base tariff for
landing charges. The additional landing fees from foreign airlines are less
than the direct operating cost savings accruing to these airlines as a result
of the improvements to aircraft movement areas at Sangster.
C.   Sangster Airport - Passenger Benefits
5.06      At certain times of the year, very congested conditions at the air-
port have so far been mostly a matter of inconvenience to travelers and have
not led to a serious limitation of travel growth. However, since two to three
years are required for design and construction of a major terminal, this situa-
tion will rapidly worsen. The direct effect will be passenger time losses
coinciding with difficult waiting conditions immediately after arrival and
prior to departure. Since this situation primarily affects North American
tourists, the direct impact on Jamaica is small. However, such delay times,
under difficult circumstances, create an unfavorable first and last impression
of a country, and are likely to lead to a small, but complete, loss of visitors
who have a wide choice of alternate destinations. Such a loss is very diffi-
cult to quantify because passenger reaction to delays and inconvenience is
very variable. Furthermore, it will most often not have a direct effect on
the trip being undertaken, but rather on future visits by the same individual
or an associate. There are indications that the rate of repeat visitors to
Jamaica is fairly low. This is partly due to airport conditions and is likely
to drop further if these conditions continue to worsen. Airlines also face
higher costs when an airport terminal is congested and tend to decrease their
frequency of operations at such an airport; this, again, would limit traffic
growth. There is evidence that changes in trip time do, in fact, have an
influence on the number of trips taken by air, especially when related to a
particular destination or an individual airline.
5.07      These various influences of delays, under trying conditions, on
passengers can be summarized in a regression analysis relating changes in
trip time to other factors determining air passenger growth, such as dispos-
able income and fare level. For US travelers, constituting the majority of
foreign visitors, and for Europeans, studies have been made in recent years
to determine the elasticity of demand to changes in travel time. While these
studies, done in the early part of the 1960's, show a factor of about -0.4,
this has increased to about -0.65 in more recent studies. This means a 4%
(or 6.5%) reduction in travel for a 10% higher traveling time, or vice versa.
The lower of these two elasticity factors has been applied, with the estimated
time delays at Sangster, to arrive at the difference in the number of passengers
with and without the project. The entire net foreign exchange contribution
for this relatively limited number of visitors has been considered a total
potential loss to the Jamaican economy (Annex 4).



- 15 -
D.   Manley Airport - Aircraft Benefits
5.08      At Manley airport, a number of relatively small individual air-
craft-related improvements will be made as part of the project. The length-
ening of the runway will lead to a payload increase under certain conditions,
and the improved apron area will lead to delays avoided for aircraft. The
combination of improved electricity supply and navigation aids will lead to
improved regularity and better utilization of aircraft. Better runway
maintenance will decrease the risk of engine damage. To ascertain, with
accuracy, the full impact of each is difficult.
5.09      There is a high degree of interdependence between Sangster and
Manley airports as well as joint use of certain air traffic control improve-
ments. Since the two airports will offer equivalent services after the
improvements made at both of them under the project, the increase in landing
fee tariffs will be the same. Therefore, the same landing fee increases used
for Sangster have been applied to the Manley aircraft movements as a measure
of the minimum value of the Manley improvements to the airlines.
E.   Manley Airport - Passenger Benefits
5.10      Passengers at Manley will save time, particularly at traffic peaks.
The time saved has, however, been applied only to Jamaican residents, who are
the predominant passengers. In view of the more limited improvement for pas-
sengers as compared to Sangster and the different composition of visitors, no
effect of deterred traffic has been included.
F.   Project Return
5.11      The economic return of the project for the Jamaican economy, based
on the above benefits, is about 19% for each airport individually. Disre-
garding any passenger benefits, this rate of return is 14% at Sangster and
15% at Manley. The sensitivity of these rates has been tested with acceptable
results. Thus, a 15% increase in construction costs would lower the return
from 19% to 16%. A 25% decrease in benefits, due either to lower traffic
than projected or lower unit benefits, would lower the rate for the project
as a whole to 14%. The first year return is above 14%.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Existing Situation
6.01      Annual budgets are prepared by CAD providing for the costs of the
operation and maintenance of all airports, air traffic services and general
administration. These costs are covered by aircraft landing and hangar fees,
rentals and concessions, and miscellaneous revenues, but not the revenues
from the passenger departure tax, amounting to over J$ 1.0 million annually.
When these revenues have been insufficient, either the Government has subsi-
dized the sector or expenditures have been cut. Provision made for capital
expenditure has been quite erratic and insufficient in the past.



- 16 -
6.02      The charges for landing fees, established in February 1972 (Annex 5),
are relatively low by international comparison in relation to the service
offered and should be raised when better facilities have been provided. The
financial information prepared under the present Government accounting, cov-
ering the activities of the civil aviation sector, is inadequate and incom-
plete. In consequence, only pro forma operating accounts can be prepared and
are given in Table 6 for the years 1970/71-1973/74. These accounts should
be regarded with caution, but they emphasize the fact that user charges must
be increased. The AM plans to have its accounting period on a calendar year
basis.
B.   Financial Objectives and Financial Structure of the AAJ
6.03      The Government intends that the new AAJ should be a financially
viable body, earning revenues sufficient to cover all cash operating expenses,
to service debt, to pay a return to the Government for the capital it has
invested and to provide a contribution to its future investment requirements.
6.04      Adoption of the following financial structure for AAJ was confirmed
during negotiations.
Equity - comprising (a) ordinary shares to be held by the
Government in the AAJ; and (b) the retained earnings of AAJ
built up from annual surpluses consistent with its obliga-
tions under the legislation establishing AAJ. The Government
undertakes to provide AAJ with initial equity equivalent to
(a) the net depreciated value of the fixed assets of the
two international airports transferred to AAJ on vesting
day, as provided under the Act establishing AAJ, and (b) at
least US-$4.3 million for the purpose of carrying out the
project.
Debt - such long-term debt as may be incurred by the AAJ,
including US$11.3 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan
relent to it by the Government under the subsidiary loan
agreement.
A subsidiary loan agreement will be required between the Government and the
AAJ as a condition of loan effectiveness, prov4ding for the repayment of its
share of the proposed Bank loan to the Government. The remaining portion of
the Bank loan, assigned to the CAD, would be repaid by the Government.
6.05      In order to increase the AMT's revenues, the Government has proposed
phased increases in the levels of landing fees, as detailed in Annex 6. Re-
moval of a remaining 25% rebate during 1975 is necessary to cover cost in-
creases over 1972/73, and increases in real terms of 50% in 1976 and of 25%
in 1977 would enable the AAJ to recover some of the economic benefits of the
project. The Government has also agreed that annual revenues from the pas-
senger departure tax in excess of the present level of about J$ 1.2 million
be collected by the AAJ and regarded as airport operatling revenue. Agreement
on a program for increasing aircraft landing fees and arrangements for trans-
ferring passenger tax revenues was reached during negotiations.



- 17 
6.06      Within the overall picture of financial viability, revenues from
airport user charges should cover the costs of services provided.   Present
accounting does not permit the comparison of such costs and revenues.   It was,
therefore, agreed during negotiations that, when the results of the new ac-
counting system (para. 6.17) become available, all airport user charges will
be reviewed, and revised as necessary, to cover the costs of the services
provided.
C.   Financing Plan fr3 theLPrject Period
6.07      Table 7 gives a forecast of the funds required over the period
1974-1977 for the project, and other works, together with the sources of
funds.  A suimnary is given below:
J$ millions              US$ millions        _
Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total
Funds Required
The Project - AAJ                     8.8    8.0   16.8        9.7      8.8   18.5  81.5
- CAD                    1.1      -      1.1      1.2       -     1.2   5.2
Ongoing works                           -    1.3    1.3       _ -       1.4    1.4   6.2
9.9    9.3   19.2      10.9    10.2   21.1  92.9
Add interest during construction    1.5        -     1.5       1.6       -     1.6   7.1
Total Required             11.4    9.3   20.7      12.5    10.2   22.7 100.0
Funds Available
From Government contributions         -       5.2    5.2       -       5.7    5.7  25.1
From AAJ                              -       4.1    4.1       -        4.5    4.5  19.8
From proposed Bank loan              11.4      -    11.4      12.5   _-       12.5  55.1
Total Available            11.4    9.3   20.7      12.5    10.2   22.7 100.0
The total cost of the program is J$ 19.2 million, plus interest during con-
struction of J$ 1.5 million, making J$ 20.7 million (tTS$22.7 million) in all.
This would be financed by the proposed Bank loan of J$ 11.4 million (US$12.5
million) and Government equity contribution of JS 5.2 million (US$5.7 million)
and AAJ's own funds J$4.1 million (US$4.5 million). As indicated, part of
the loan, J$ 1.1 million, would be used by the Government for the part of the
project relating to CAD.



- 18 -
D.   Financial Projections
(i) Income and Expenditure
6.08      Revenue details and projections for AAJ for the years 1974-1984
are given in Table 8.  Summarized forecast results for the years 1974, 1978,
1980 and 1984, based on assumptions in Annex 6, are given below:
1974      1978       1980      1984
-              (3____----(J$ '000) 
Landing fee revenues                  1,115     4,146      5,340      6,810
Other revenues                        1,495     2,110      2,470      3,250
2,610     6,256      7,810    10,060
Passenger tax (AAJ share)               -          500       810      1,570
Total Revenues                   2,610     6,756      8,620    11,630
Working expenses                      1,555      2,155     2,475      3,285
Provision for depreciation                       2,400     2,800      3,800
Total Operating3 Costs           3,155     4,555      5,275     7,085
Net operating revenue (loss)          (545)      2,201     3,345      4,545
Interest on long-term debt              -         846      1,149      1,555
Net surplus (loss)                    (545)      1,355     2,196      2,990
Return on average net fixed assets %  -           7.2        9.8       10.0
6.09      For expenses, it has been assumed that, on creation of the new
authority, salaries of senior and technical staff will be about doubled in
order to attract and retain qualified staff. In addition, a long-term annual
inflationary rate of 7.5% has been taken. The Government has suggested that
an annual fee of J$ 75,000 be charged to cover the costs of technical ser-
vices provided by the CAD. It has also suggested that no charge be made to
the Authority for the cost of ATC and air navigation, since separate charges
would be made to the airlines, by CAD, to recover these costs. It is con-
sidered feasible that the revenues from these charges could cover the half of
the cost of the ATC and air navigation services related to the efficient
functioning of the airports, the other half being related to overflights;
this was agreed during negotiations.
6.10      It was agreed during negotiations that (a) the fixed assets taken
over by the Authority will be formally valued, using a method satisfactory to
the Bank, and such values, as agreed on by the Government authorities concerned,
will be taken on the books of the AAJ, and (b) based on such asset book values,
annual provision for replacement will be made in AAJ's accounts. The values
of the fixed assets will be based on thu.m onsultanCs' estimates, and the asset
lives will be determined on the advice of AAJ's technical staff. Any planned
takeover of the onerations, assets and liabilities of other Jamaican airports
will be done in consultation with the Bank.



- 19 -
6.11      The projections indicate that, although operating deficits are
likely in 1974 and 1975, the AAJ can cover all its cash needs during this
period. Net income is modest in the other years of the project period, but
increases thereafter. By 1980, it reaches a level where the AAJ can safely
pay dividends to the Government on its equity,  It was agreed during nego-
tiations that the AAJ will pay the Government a dividend on its equity after
1980 and that, during the period 1980-1985, the rate will be 7% per year.
This dividend, together with the J$ 1.2 million departure fee paid directly
to the Government, will create a nominal return of about 11% on its equity.
(ii) Cash Flow
6.12      Projected cash flow statements for the years 1974 to 1984 are given
in Table 7. The tentative estimate of investment required over the period
1974-1984, as given in Table 3, comprising the project, together with ongoing
works and those required for completion of the master plan for the development
of the two airports, is about J$ 59 million, including about J$ 28 million for
foreign exchange. During negotiations, it was agreed that all necessary
steps should be taken by the AAJ, each year commencing January 1, 1978, to
produce revenues sufficient to cover operating expenses, service debt and pay
an appropriate dividend on issued share capital. In addition, these revenues
should finance at least 40% of capital expenditures in each three-year period
with a minimum of 25% of capital expenditures in each year. It was also
agreed during negotiations that landing charges will be raised (para 6.05),
that major capital expenditures subsequent to the project will be made in
agreement with the Bank until 1981, and that the AAJ will not incur any long-
term debt (other than for financing the project) without the prior approval
of the Bank if its consolidated net revenues for the 12-month period ended
prior to the incurrence of the debt is less than 1.25 times its maximum future
debt service requirements in any succeeding financial year.
6.13      Although, as noted in paragraph 6.11, the AAJ net revenue, after
providing for depreciation and loan interest, will not be sufficient during
the 1974-1979 period to pay a full return on Government equity, its net
cash generation would be sufficient to enable it to contribute over J$ 16
million toward investment. After 1979, the Authority's revenues would be
quite sufficient to service all debt, give a return to Government and make a
substantial contribution to investment. It is assumed that the foreign ex-
change element of subsequent investment would be financed on terms similar to
those of the proposed Bank loan. The AAJ should be able to provide about
J$ 26 million toward the J$ 31 million in local currency needed for investment
over the 1974-1984 period, as well as paying returns to the Government as
noted in paragraph 6.04, leaving about J$ 5 million to be contributed by
the Government as part of the present project and ongoing works.
(iii) Balance Sheets
6.14      Projected balance sheets for AAJ over the years 1974-1984 are given
in Table 9. These show net fixed assets rising from J$ 20.1 million to
J$ 45.5 million. On completion of the master plan, investment requirements
after 1984 should be relatively minor for several years, and the debt/equity
ratio (38/62 in 1984) should improve. The current ratio times interest earned
and debt service coverage are all satisfactory.



- 20 -
(iv) Accounting and Audit
6.15      As indicated in paragraph 6.02, present accounting methods are
unsatisfactory, and the financial information available is inadequate and
incomplete.
6.16      Audit is carried out by staff of the Government Auditor, but covers
only the checking of the existing cash accounting records, and no opinion is
given regarding the financial condition of the airports system.
6.17      It was agreed during negotiations that:
(a)  a modern accounting system, capable of readily identifying
the costs and revenues applicable to major functional centers
at the airports, will be devised and installed, with the aid
of consultants to be financed from the proposed loan, within
one year of the loan becoming effective; and
(b) auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, will be appointed within
one year from the introduction of the new accounting system.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment on the following points:
(a)  Adequate regulations to protect the airport environment
by December 31, 1976 (para. 3.04);
(b)  An integrated plan for tourism development to be drawn
up by the Government by June 30, 1975 (para. 3.09); and
(c)  A program, satisfactory to the Bank, for adequate air
traffic control, communications and meteorology, with
associated training and systems modernization (para. 4.04).
7.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a)  The appointment of the senior management levels of the AAJ
in consultation with the Bank (para. 3.20);
(b)  Development of the organizational and salary structure,
including training arrangements, for the AAJ, satisfactory
to the Bank, together with the organizational structures,
appropriate training and management tec&niques for the
CAD (paras. 3.21 and 3.23);
(c)
Terms of reference and procedures for selecting MOW project
staff and the formation of the project team (para. 4.06);



- 21 -
(d) Formation and structure of an interdepartmental committee
to be set up under the Ministry of Public Utilities, Com-
munications and Transport (para. 4.08);
(e) Engagement of consultants to review and advise on manage-
ment, accounting and information systems for AAJ (para.
4.10);
(f) Adoption of the financial structure for AAJ (para. 6.04);
(g) A program for increasing aircraft landing fees and arrange-
ments for transferring passenger tax revenues to meet certain
financial targets (paras. 6.05, 6.11 and 6.12);
(h) Recovery of cost for air traffic control (para. 6.09);
(i) Formal valuation of fixed assets and provision for replace-
ment and the takeover of operations, assets and liabilities
of other Jamaican airports (para. 6.10);
(j) Timing of investment after the project and debt limitation
covenant (para. 6.12);
(k) Introduction of modern accounting system (para. 6.17); and
(1) Appointment of auditors (para. 6.17).
7.03      Conditions for loan effectiveness will be:
(a) Appointment of the consultants and the personnel of the
MOW project team, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para. 4.06);
(b) Contracts, to be signed with consultants acceptable to,
and on terms and conditions agreed on, by the Bank for
the development and implementation of the organization,
management and administration structures and systems of
the AAJ and the CAD (para. 4.10); and
(c) A subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the
AAJ, providing for the repayment of part of the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan to the Government (para. 6.04).
7.04      It is recommended that the Bank agree to:
(a) Local competitive bidding for those portions of the project
not suitable for international bidding up to a maximum of
US$1.0 million (para. 4.14);



- 22 -
(b) Di-rect procurement of equipment, where necessary for
standardization, up to a maximum of US$400,000 (para.
4.14); and
(c) Retroactive financing, not to exceed US$550,000 in the
aggregate for expenditures incurred, after 1 April 1974 and
before loan signing, with respect to consulting services
and procurement of air navigation equipment (para. 4.16).
7.05      A project agreement has been set up between the AAJ and the Bank to
cover the various operational, management and financial undertakings (paras.
3.22 and 6.04) and a subsidiary loan agreement between the Governient and the
AAJ.
7.06      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$12.5 million for a term of 25 years, including a four-year grace period.
August 20, 1974



TABLE 1
,JAMAICA
ITPf?ORT DEVELOPM-ENT PROJECT
Air Traffic Projections
A C T U AL                         F 0 R E C A S T
1967            1972           1977           1980           1 o85
('1000)                                (I000)
A,NNTJAL P'P FENGERS
ManleAr                     ~~~~~~1/
International            330   (10.97   r3   (9.r)   871   (9.n) 1,198   (8.o) I,66r'
Domestic                  47   (6.6)      6c)  (7.()    91   (7.0)   111   (7.0)   iL6
Transit                 ill              102   (2.8)   117   (5 .o)   13< (3o0)   17')
Fangster
International            339   (12.9)   622   (10.0)1,002   (11.0) 1 370   (8.0)  o,1 .
Domestic                  6?   (7.0)      87   (7.0)   122   (7.0)   l1Q   (7.0n)   209
Transit                  206             198   (2.8)   227   (:.0)   263   (Kn)   -3j6
ANNUAL AI?CRCFT MOVEMENTS
Manley
Schediled                10   (h.h4)    1)?              19   (L4.8)    23   (1.7)
Other                     22   (7.6)      39             32   (),. 3)    36   (J)    bJ
Sangster
Scheduled                 11   (8.2)      17   (6.0)    23   (3.6)    26   (1.9)    29
Other                     13   (14.8)    25   (11.2)   43   (10.0)   '8   (10.0)   93
ANNU.L AIR FREIGHT (tons)
ManLey
Inbound                    6   (9.1)      10   (9.4)    16   (9.0)    ?1   (8.0)    31
Outbound                   It  (6.6)       r   (9.7)      8   (9.0)    11   (8.0)    16
Sangster
Inbound                    2   (1.1)       2   (2.0)      2   (2.0)      2   (2.0)       3
Outbound                   1               1              1              1              1
1/ Figures in parentheses showv annual average growth rate between years showvn.
April 1974






J.kMAICA-                           TABLE 2
'Pag1
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Cost Estimates
w; '000
Local     Foreign      Total
I.  AI'PCRAFT MWNOEUJVERING AREAS
SAnNGSTER
Drainage                                      586          104        690
General Aviation Area                          60           4O        100
Pave Parallel Taxi                            1 )0         250         390
New Apron and Stand                           220           89         300
Taxi Lighting                                  46          1h         150
Apron Refuelling                               ho          5 0         Q0
Resurface Part Runway                          30           90        120
T                                              -EILS,        8          8
MANLEY
PunwtTay Extension                            420          280        700
Approach Lighting                              20          80         100
New Aircraft Stand                            40            10         .<
Modify Apron Refuelling                        61           74         135
Drainage                                       10           40          50
TOTAL                                       1,673        1,210      2,883         16
II. MODIFICATIONS TO TERMINAL
SANGSTER
Elevated Walkways                             263          393        656
New Arrival Block                             576          384        960
Building Modifications                       114           86         oon
Air Conditioning                              1514        2?1         375
Baggage Claim Devices                          -           15n        1iS
Charter Terminal                              131          1n6        237
Modifications Telephone and P.A.               20           20         hO
MANLEY
Interior Modifications                         85           77        162
Baggage Claim Devices                          -            60          60
Relocate Finger                               127          189         316
Postal Center                                   8            8          16
Elevated WalkwAay                             122          183         305
Convert Old Customs Hall                       27           34         61
TOTAL                                       1,627        l           _311  38     20



TABLE 2
Page 2
J.!; '000
Local     Foreign      Total
III. NAVAIDS (CAD)
SANGSTER
VOR/DME                                        -           148        148
Relocate NDB
MANLEY
VOR/DME                                        -           160         160
Relocate NDB                                    _            35          35
ATC Equipment                                  -           400         hOo
TOTAL                                                      778         778
IV.  OTHER BUILDINGS AND UTILITIES
SANGSTER
Roads and Parking                             180           40         220
Car Hire Area                                  24           16          1X0
Relocate CAD Stores                            14             6         20
Relocate Airline Maintenance                   97           29         126
Fire Station                                  103           42         1 !45
Electrics                                     212          426         638
'Jater and Sewage                               76           39         115
Site Preparation                               50           -           50
Security Fencing                               50           33          83
Incinerator                                     -           25          25
Remove Obstruction                             60            35         95
Crash Rescue                                               h 426       426
Runway Sweeper                                 -            40          40
MANLEY
New Cargo Terminal                            393          200         593
Communications/Telephone                       25           25          50
Electrics                                     1)50         300         450
Relocate CAD Stores                            49           19          68
CAD Maintenance                                11           .6          20
Roads and Car Park                               2          18          20
Security Fencing                               47           31          78
Incinerator                                    -            25          25
Vegetable Store                                 4             6         10
Site Preparation                               10           -           10
Car Hire Area                                  24           16          40
REILS                                          -             8           8
Crash Rescue Vehicle                           -           160         160
Runway Sweeper                                 -            40          4O
TOTA L                                      1,_584       2,j1        3_595        20
GRAND TOTAL                                 4,88I,       5,910      10,794        60



TABLE 2
Page 3
Jt I 00(
Local     Foreign     Total
V. CONTINGENCIES
Phyvsical 16                                  7.81        946      1,727      10
Price 15'; per annum                      1,524t       1,658      3,182      18
VI. ENGINEERING, SUPERVISION.                                      2/
AND CCNSULTANTS                               777       1,377       2,15)4     12
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          7in
VII. LOCALLY FINANCED ONGOING
WORKS IN PROJECT PERIOD
(CAD Program)                              1,330          -        1,330
TOTAL PROGRA14 COST                        2.2i        9.891     19.187
1/ Runway lhd Identification Lights
2/ JIcludes J$ 100,000 for CAD
June 1974






8 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1 2
-b                                             2 w8; l 8             8o 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       or .                 I     
1-r~~~~~~ ~~~ tI I Eq           
1~~~~~~~~8   - N                             P      C\     
|                         H'O                      1 \ AN 0|>0   |O|
-   W                            8'-'1 C  00001 .                       I9  
Ue 2,                                          0                       Ho. t |i ''t'' '    
8             N H      0   1 N                 
.9 |.  E  EI                                                       V >       ) N     >   | 8 N   t 0 E     o   
8                    0                                   0 .9 N         | - 'I  2   N 0 2 w 0      ~
.~ ~~0-                                                  0,0,0D   l s}mX  2BE   



TABLE )4
JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOP)ENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Years
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Years                                  at end of Quarter
Quarter                                           (USt 000)
1 974/75
September 30, 197h                                        160
December 31, 1974                                         525
March 31, 1975                                           1490
June 30, 1975                                            4960
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                       6760
December 30, 1975                                        8310
March 31 , 1976                                          9600
June 30, 1976                                           10210
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                      10720
December 31, 1976                                       11320
March 31, 1977                                          11900
June 30, 1977                                           12500
June 1974



TABLE i
JAMIAICA
AIRPORT DE:OPHINT PROJECT
Passenger Arrivals at Different-Airports 1971 - 1972
1971            1972
Acapulco, Mwcico (Internatinal)           215,993          246,619
Barbados                                  292,926          346,942
Bermuda                                   383,663          399,938
Curacao                                   257,932          252,000
Kingstcn, Jamaica                         267,193          306,095
Montego Bay, Jamaica                      315,895          354,606
Panama                                    264,92I          294,000
St. Martin                                101,338          110,954
June 1974



TABLE 6
JAM4tCA
AIRP(RTS DkVEW PkENT PROJECT
CAD 2        erati   Results, 1970/97-1973/74 (for all airports)
(Actual and Estizated)
1970/71     1971/72      1972/73      1973/74
Actual      Actual      Actual        Budget
- (J$ '000)----________
OPUEATIM) REVENUES
Landing fees                                             655          700         830           974
Rentals                                                  152          126          170          170
Concessions                                              409          507         600           650
Miscellaneous                      _.                                  57          60            67
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                            1,274       1,3960                    1,861
OPEtATIID COSTS
Working Costss
Kingston Airport                                        342          393         446           533
Montego Bay Airport                                     186          187         239           275
Domestic airports                                        37           54          69
Subtotal                                              565         634          754           893
Airports Protection Services                             323          353         .,            537
Total Working Costs                                   888          987       1,189        1,430
Provision for replacement of fixed assets Y            1a185        1,243       1,295          122.
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                               2,073       2,230        2.481;       29
Net Working Revenue                                        386          403         471           431
Net Operating Revenue (losa)                              (799)        (840)       (824)       (1,069)
OVERHEAD COSTS
CAD - General administration                             137          117         152           195
- Air navigation facilities                           26          42           53           93
- Air traffic services                               244          255         262           m
Subtotal                                              407          414         467          621
Less fees received                                       (21)         (11)        (20)          (24)
NET OVZRHEADS                                         386          403         447           597
Net Deficit - before depreciation                          -            -
Net Deficit - including depreciation                     1,185        1,243       1,271         1,666
1/ Estimated.
June 1974



JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AAJ Summary Cash Flow, 1974.- 1984
(J$ '000)
1974      1975       1976        1977     1974/1977      1978        1979        1980        1981        1982       1983      1984
seie- -- - - Project Period - - - - - - - - -
Funds Requ ired
Investmert: Local                     1,659      4,274      2,582        781       9,296         872       2,892       3,044       2,363       5,613      3,295     1,877
Foreign                    420      5,510      1,945         946       8,821        738       2,351       2,541       1,672       4,390      2,575    1.865
Subtotal investment                2,079      9,784      4,527       1,727      18,117      1,610       5,243       5,585       4,035      10,003      5,870     3,742
Interest during construction             39        40%        816          31      1,290
Total investment                   2,118     10,188      5,343       1,758      19,407      1,610       5,243       5,585       4,035      10,003      6,870     3,742
Debt Service
IBRD - Interest                                                           776        776         816         815         799         781         762        742       720
Repayment                                                            _ _-                             201          217        235         254        274       295
Subtotal IBRD                                                          776         776         816      1,016        1,016      1,016        1,016      1,016    1,016
Other - Interest                                                                                  30         153         350         520         760        875       835
Repayment                                                                                  -           _           -           -         500        500       500
Subtotal other                                                                                 30          153         350         520       1,260      1,375     1,335
Subtotal debt service                                                  776         776         846       1,169       1,366       1,536       2,276      2,391     2,351
Dividend to Government                                                                                                   1,967        1,975      1,980       1,995    2,004
Increase in working capital                          100        200         200         600        200          200         100         100        100        100       -
Total Funds Required               2,118     10,288     65,53        2,734      20,683       2,656       6,612       9,o18       7,646     I4,359      10,356     8,097
Funds Available
Generated by AAJ
Gross operating revenues              2,610      3,163      4,223       4,965      14,Q61      6,256        7,190       7,810       8,370       8,930      9,500    10,060
Less working expenses                 16555      1,670      1,785       2,005       7,015      2.155       2,310        2,475       2,665      2.850       3,o60     3,285
Subtotal                          1,055      1,493      2,438       2,960       7,946       4,101       4,880       5,335       5,705       6,o80      6,440     6,775
Passengers departure tax (net)                      60        210         340         610        500          670         810       1,000       1,190      1,370     1,570
Subtotal: cash generated          1,055      1,553      2,648       3,300       8,556       4,601       5,550       6,145       6,705       7,270      7,810     8,345
Borrowing
IBRD                                    459      5,914      2,760         977      10,110
Other                                             _          ___       ___         -              738       2,351       2,541       1.672       4,390
Subtotal Borrowing                  459      5,914      2,760         977      10,110         738       2,351       2,541       1,672       4,390
Government Equity                       1,659      3,391        150                   5,200
Total Funds Available             3,173     10,858      5,559       4,277      23,866       5,339       7,901       8,686       8,377      11,660      7,810     8,345
Annual surplus funds (deficit)          1,055        570         15       1,543       3,183       2,683       1,289        (332)        731      (2,699)    (2;5146)     248   m
Cumulative cash                           755      1,325      1,340       2,883       2,883       5,566       6,855       6,523       7,256       4,555      2,009     2,257
June 1974



JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AAJ Forecast Rewnue Accounts, 1974,- 1984
(J$ 'OOo)
1974        1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980          1981         1982         1983         1984
REVENUES
Landing fees                                  1,115        1,543        2,443        3,030        4,146        4,875        5,340        5,705        6,070        6,445        6,810
Space rental                                    300          325          350          370          385          410          425          445          470          490          515
Concessions                                     600          655          725          815          870          985        1,065        1,145        1,250        1,365        1,445
Fuel charge                                     360          390          410          425          495          520          540          595          625          645          695
Car parking                                     175          190          225          245          270          300          330          360          390          425          455
Miscellaneous                                    60           60           70           80           90          100          110          120          125          130           140
Subtotal                                   2,610        3,163        4,223        4,965        6,256        7,190        7,810        8,370        8,930        9,500       10,060
Passenger departure tax (net)                  -              60          210          340          500          670          810        1,0         j,19          1,370        1,570
TOTAL REVENUES                             2,610        3,223       4,433         5,305        6,756        7,860        8,620        9,370       10,120       10,870       11,630
EXPENSES
Operations and maintenance                    1,480        1,595        1,710        1,930        2,080        2,235        2,400        2,590        2,775        2,985        3,210
CAD s3ervice iee                                 75           75           75           75           75           75           75            76          75            75          75
Total working expenses                     1,555        1,670        1,785        2,005        2,155        2,310        2,475        2,665        2,850        3,o60        3,285
Provision for depreciation                    1,600        1,900        2,200        2,300        2,400        2,600        2,800        3,100        3,300        3,600        3,800
Total operating expenses                   3,155        3,570        3,985        4,305        4,555        4,910        5,275        5,765        6,150        6,660        7,085
Net working (cash) surplus                    1,055        1,553        2,648        3,300        4,601        5,550        6,145        6,705        7,270        7,810         8,345
Net operating surplus (deficit)                (545)        (347)         448        1,000        2,201        2,950        3,345        3,605        3,970        4,210         4,545
Loan interest
IBRD                             -            -            -             776          816          815          799          781           762          742          720
Other                                                                                  30          153          350          520           760       e_5             835
Subtotal interest                                                                   776          846          968        1,149        1,301        1,522        1,617        1,555
Net income (deficit)                            (545)       (347)         448          224        1,355        1,982        2,196        2,304         2,448        2,593        2,990
Less 7% dividend to Government                                                                                              1J967        1 975         11980        1 995        2 004
surplus to retained earnings                  (545)        (347)         448          224        1,355        1,982       --2-29          329           46B          59
RATIOS
Working ratio %                                   60          52           40            38           32           29          29            28           28           28           28
Operating Ratio %                               121          111           90            81           67           62          61            61           61           61           61
Times interest earned                             -            -           -           1.3         -2-'          3.o 09                     2 8          27          -2-Z          2.9
Debt service coverage                                                       -            -          5.4          4.7         4.5            4.4          4.8          4.8          5.4     X
Return on net fixed assets %                     -                         5           3.2          7.2          9.4         9.8          10.0           9.8          9;8         io.0
July 1974



JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AAJ Forecast Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1974 to 1984
(J$ '000)
JAMAICA AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
1974      1975       1976      1977      1978       1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Balances                             755     1,325     1,340      2,883     5,566      6,855     6,523      7,254      4,555     2,009      2,257
Receivables and Inventories                        600       700      1,000     1,200     1,400       0         1,700     1,900      2,000     2,100      2,200
Total Current Assets                        1,355     2,025     2,340      4,083     6,966      8,455     8,223      9,154     6,555      4,109      4,457
Fixed Assets - Gross Value                      39,118    49,306    54,650    56,408    58,018    63,261    68,846    72,881    82,884    88,754    92,496
Less Accumulated Depreciation                   19,000    20,900    23,100    25,400    278         30h        33,200    36,300    39,600    43,200    472000
Net Fixed Assets                          20,118    28,406    31,550    31,003    30,213    32,86i    35,646    36,531    43,234    45,554    45,496
Total Assets                               21473    30,431    33,890    35,091    37,184    415735                                       49,663    49,953
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                                300       300        400       400        400       400        400       500        500       500        600
Long Tern Debt
IBRD                                             458     6,372      9,133    10,110    10,110      9,909     9,692      9,457      9,203     8,929      8,633
Other                                                 -               -         -          738     3,089      5,630     7,302    11,192    10,69       10,192
Total Debt                                   458     6,372     9,133    10,110    10,848    12,998    15,322    16,759    20,395    19,621    18,825
Equity                                          21,260    24,651    24,801    24,801    24,801    24,801    24,801    24,801    24,801    24,801    24,801
Retained Earnings                                 (545)      (892)     (444)     (220)    1,135      3,117      3,346     3,675      4,143      4,741     5,727
Subtotal Equity                          20,715    23,759    24,357    24,581    25,926    27,918    28,147    28,476    28,944    29,542    30,528
Total Liabilities and Capital            21,473    30,431    33,890    35,091    37,14                   43869    45735    49839    49,663    49,953
June 1974






ANNEX 1
JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Cperatimns in Jamaica
A. Stateament of Bank Loans (as of June 30, 1974)
Loan    Fiscal                                                            (UT$ mdllion)
No.     Year                Borrower               Purpose            Amount (less cancellation)
Bank      Undisbursed
3 loans fully disbursed (408,454 and 468) 2                            35.8
598      1969      The WIter Commission
Kingston, Jamaica               Water Supply        5.0              1.0
690      1970      Jamaica                          Population          2.0             1.3
719      1970      Jamaica Development Bank         Agriculture         3.7             1.8
727      1971      Jamaica                          Education          13.5            13.0
899      1973      Jamaica                          Highways            9.3             9.0
1003     1974 1/   Jamaica Development Bank         Agriculture         5.5             5.5
lOO1     1974 1/   Jamaica                          Sites & Services  15.0             15.0
1975 /    Jamaica                          Highways          13.5             13.5
Total (net cancellation)                          153 I
of which has been repaid                            5.8
Total now outstanding                              97.5
Amount sold                     1.5
of which has been repaid        1.4                 0.1
Total now held by Bank                             97.4
Total undisbursed                                                   60.1
B.  Statement oa IFC Investament  (as of June 30, 1974)
Type of                          (US$ million)_
Year    Obligor              Business                   Loan     Equity       Total
1961    Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd. Pre-mix concrete            0.?                   0.2
1968    Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.         Tourism                     2.2       0.7         2.9
Total gross commitments                       2.4       0.7         3.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          1.1                   1.1
Total commitments now held by IFC             1.3       0.7         2.0
Total undisbursed                              -         -
l/ Not yet effective
/  The telecomuwnications loan (I81-JN) was made in 1967 to the Jaaice Telephone Compan-
and was canceUed by the Borrower during 1967.
July 1974






ANNEX 2
Page 1
JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Airports, Environment and Proiect Improvements
Manley Airport
1.        The airport was originally constructed in 1942 as a Royal Naval
Air Base. After World War II, it was commissioned for civilian use, and the
present runway, apron and terminal building were constructed during the years
1957-1961; only minor modifications have been made since that time.
2.        In 1972, this airport handled 720,000 passengers, of which 553,000
were international non-transit passengers, 65,000 were domestic passengers
and the balance in transit. Aircraft movements at the airport in that year
totalled about 50,700.
3.        The airport is located on the Palisadoes peninsula which forms the
southern and eastern boundaries of Kingston Harbor.  It lies approximately
two miles across the harbor from downtown Kingston, or about 14 miles by road.
4.        The runway, built on reclaimed land, has a length of 8,000 ft with
a width of 150 ft and 35 ft shoulders. It has an alignment of 100-290 degrees
magnetic (11-29). The runway can be lengthened by reclaiming more land in
the Bay.
5.        Approaches to the airport are good.  While there is no Instrument
Landing System (ILS), there is a radio beacon, Visual Approach Slope Indicator
System (VASIS), installed at both ends of the runway. Runway lighting and
approach lights are also provided.
Sangster Airport
6.        Sangster Airport on the north coast, two miles from Montego Bay, was
established in 1946 and has been improved and extended over the years. The
runwav was extended to its present length in 1967 and the terminal, with
its parking apron, was built in 1959. In 1970, catering to the tourist
market, two B-747 parking stands were built. The airport serves the tourist
resort area on the north shore of the island and is connected to it by a
scenic highway which is being improved by means of Bank assistance.
7.        In 1972, Sangster Airport handled 907,000 passengers, of which
622,000 were international non-transit, 87,000 were domestic passengers and
the balance in transit. Total aircraft movements in the airport in the
same year were about 42,300.
8.        The airport has a single runway, 8,700 ft long and 150 ft wide with
an alignment of 060-230 degrees magnetic (06-23). Landing facilities are
similar to those of Manley. The terminal building is located close to the
existing runway and could, in the future, constrain aircraft movements along
the proposed parallel taxiway.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Master Plan and Environment
9.        The project at the two airports forms part of the first phase of
a master plan prepared by the consultants (Kates, Peat, Marwick & Co., and
Montreal Engineering Co. Ltd.) and accepted, in principle, by the Government.
The master plan has been developed to provide for the orderly growth of the
two airports as traffic demand warrants, and particular attention has been
paid to ensuring that the project is consistent in all respects with long-
range requirements.
10.       The location of the two airports is such that noise pollution is
minimized with approach and departure patterns over the sea. There is some
potential noise problem on the west side of the bay at Kingston, but proper
planning by the city and Government can ensure that no major difficulties
arise. There are four areas of concern where development should be controlled
in order to ensure compatible future use.
(a) Approximately four lineal miles of the Palisadoes peninsula
adjacent to the airport which lies within the future 115 CNR-Z/
line; it is recommended that development in this area be
directly controlled by the Ministry responsible for civil
aviation;
(b) The area at the western end of the peninsula in the vicinity
of Port Royal, which lies within the 100 CNR and 115 CNR lines;
(c) The portion of Buccaneer/Gunboat Beach areas which lies
within the future 100/115 CNR lines; and
(d) Approximately 1,500 acres lying between Caymanas Park and
Port Henderson, which, in the future, will lie within the
100 CNR lines.
11.       Airport zoning imposes a building height of 150 feet above airport
elevation over a region 13,000 feet in radius about the airport reference
point and progressively less severe restraints at greater distances. The
areas principally affected by this limitation are:
(a) The Port Royal region, which lies just outside the inner
horizontal zoning surface;
(b) The waterfront and portions of downtown Kingston, which
lie under the inner horizontal surface.
12.       At Sangster, noise by aircraft on takeoff now affects two hotel
complexes east of the runway. The airport was established before the hotels;
nevertheless, increasing noise caused by the steadily increasing traffic
will, in time, reduce the desirability of this area. No further tourist
l/ Composite Noise Rating



ANNEX 2
Page 3
development should be allowed between the airport and the Holiday Inn.
Height restrictions will apply in the flight way in the same manner as at
Manley. Approaches from the west will not change the existing noise pattern.
13.       Future runway extensions at Sangster and Manley will require evalua-
tion with respect to the following:
(a)  Ecological damage to marine life resulting directly from
construction, and indirectly from modifications, to the
present pattern of ocean currents;
(b)  Environmental damage to existing shoreline and beaches
and adjacent properties resulting from possible changes
in littoral drift.
14.       There is also a requirement, at Manley, to protect the road access
system. This places a constraint on development along the entire Palisadoes
striD in that a high capacity transportation corridor must be maintained
along the peninsula, not only to ensure access to the airport from the east,
but also to protect a possible connection to the mainland to the west.
15.       Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
on the development of adequate regulations to protect the airport environ-
ment.
Aircraft Trends
16.       The use of a particular aircraft size on an air carrier route is
generally a function of passenger demand and operational economics, with the
number and size of aircraft depending on passenger volumes and destinations.
In evaluating types of aircraft expected to serve Jamaica, it must be borne
in mind that Jamaica's present peak season complements the peak season on
the North Atlantic. Thus, a new aircraft may be introduced on a Jamaican
route prior to a fully adequate passenger demand from the Jamaican route
itself. A second factor is that of the fairly long stage lengths to the
nearest large population centers, resulting in an aircraft mix tending toward
larger aircraft with very few small short-range aircraft.
17.       For both airports, there will be a definite trend toward larger
wide-bodied aircraft. This will be especially noticeable at Sangster, where
most of the airlines overate on relatively long-haul, high-density routes.
Manley is served by many of the shorter routes, such as that to the Cayman
Islands and British Honduras, giving it a higher proportion of low capacity
aircraft. Should the very large capacity aircraft not materialize at the
times anticipated, which Is possible because of high fuel costs, there will be
a smaller growth in the average aircraft size and a consequent increase in
the annual arrivals. It is expected that the domestic carrier will continue
to use Twin Otter aircraft until around 1985, at which time traffic volumes
will justify the use of aircraft similar in size to the HS-748 (50 seats).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Project Improvements
Manley Airport
18.       The existing passenger terminal was completed in 1961, and, although
minor modifications have been carried out, the present arrangement is not
satisfactory for the safe and expeditious handling of passengers or baggage.
It is therefore planned to modify the existing building to meet traffic
requirements to 1980. This modification will exhaust the possibilities of
the existing facilities, and a new extension will be required about 1980.
19.       The airport electrical distribution system installed in 1960 is now
wholly inadequate and in poor condition. The project will provide a new main
substation and field electrical center, replace the runway lighting system
and rehabilitate the approach lighting.
20.       It is proposed to relocate or improve small operational and main-
tenance facilities and to improve the entrance roads and parking lots.
Drainage of the terminal area will be improved, and an incinerator for garbage
from international flights will be provided.
Sangster Airport
21.       The growth of Sangster is essentially related to the growth of
tourism and the fact that aircraft bound for Kingston tend to make an enroute
stop at Montego Bay.
22.       Tourism is a rather sensitive industry; therefore, the airport
procedures for handling aircraft and passengers should be efficient and as
attractive as possible. The project consequently aims at improving the
existing facilities to derive the maximum benefit possible and investing
small amounts in new plant essential to safety or handling efficiency. These
improvements are consistent with a master development plan to protect the
investment in the event that growth increases as forecast. New facilities can
readily be provided in the space reserved.
23.       The runway, 8,700 ft long, is sufficient for present stage lengths
and it is not considered necessary to lengthen it at this time. Its con-
struction on reclaimed swampland is not of consistent quality or strength
and it shows signs of deterioration in several areas. Immediate remedial
work is required at the extreme east end, and an asphaltic overlay of this
section is included in the project. An overlay of the balance of the
pavement will be deferred for some years.
24.       Construction of a new parallel taxiway is presently under way as a
swamp reclamation project. This work was started because of the delays to
aircraft, and its completion will result in substantial savings. The present



ANNEX 2
Page 5
work will complete base preparation of a major portion of the taxiway. The
project will finance reclamation of the most difficult section of swamp and
final grading and paving of the entire taxiway.
25.       The existing apron is in fair condition and will be enlarged under
the project to accommodate large wide body aircraft.
26.       As at Manley, the electrical distribution system and the field
lighting systems are old, inadequate and unreliable. The project provides
for modernization, including a new substation and distribution system. New
lighting will be provided for the taxiway and apron. Power and telephone
lines, which present a hazard to aircraft, will be buried.
27.       The sewerage system will be modified and extended to provide
adequate service to the operating areas, and two new pumping stations will
be provided. Since the airport lies on low flat swampy ground barely above
sea level, runoff from the hills immediately to the south of the airport
creates a serious drainage problem during the rainy season. A comprehensive
new drainage svstem will be developed for storm water runoff.
28.       The existing fire station forms part of the former terminal complex
(now a military depot). This complex of buildings is old and very close to
the runway, creating a hazard to aircraft. In order to meet safety zoning
regulations, these buildings should be demolished and the site restored.
Arrangements are being made to relocate the military to an off-airport site,
and a site for a new fire station has been selected. An amount has been includ-
ed for demolishing the old buildings and constructing a new fire station.
29.       The existing passenger terminal was built in 1959.  It has poor
ventilation, no air conditioning, poor traffic flows and long walking distances
(most of this exposed to the elements, engine noise and blast). Demands for
space from time to time led to modifications on a piecemeal basis in an attempt
to meet the increasing traffic demands. The terminal was built to handle
passenger loads of 100 to 150 passengers at a time. With the advent of larger
aircraft, stretched DC-8, DC-10 and 747, the passenger and baggage handling
capability is inadequate. The future trend will be to larger, more efficient
and economical aircraft, and this presents two problems: (a) the need to
handle larger passenger loads expeditiously and (b) the proximity of the
terminal and apron to the runway, creating a problem in handling large aircraft.
The high tails intrude into the air space, and the aircraft, when parked,
block other taxiing planes.
30.       A new terminal and apron without these restrictions would be
desirable; however, it has been determined that, in view of other demands on
Jamaican resources, it would be inappropriate to consider such an Investment
immediately. A plan has been developed to utilize the existing terminal to



ANNEX 2
Page 6
maximum advantage by suitable modifications and rehabilitation and to provide
an economical structure to handle large group charters. This structure could
be easily converted to cargo handling later when a new terminal becomes
feasible.
Both Airports
31.       The existing non-directional beacons do not meet the requirement
of existing high performance jet aircraft for enroute, terminal area and
approach guidance. A VOR-DME installation will be provided, primarily to
expedite approaches, but it will also meet a long felt need for enroute and
terminal area assistance. This equipment will materially assist aircraft on
approach.
32.       The communications equipment presently in use by air traffic
control for air-ground and point-to-point relay for the expeditious handling
of aircraft is old and unreliable. New equipment will be provided to meet
minimum requirements for safety, reducing maintenance down-time and traffic
delays.
33.       The existing crash/rescue equipment is inadequate and would be of
little value in the event of an incident. New modern equipment to meet ICAO
standards will be provided, as well as motorizedtrunway sweepers to minimize
hazards to aircraft.
July 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1
JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing and Future Airport Organization
Existing Organization
1.        The Director of Civil Aviation, reporting to the Minister of Public
Utilities, Communications and Transport, is directly responsible for all
matters affecting civil aviation, including the preparation of the operating,
maintenance and capital budget. Funding and disbursement are under the
control of the Ministry of Finance while design, scheduling, construction
and maintenance of facilities are controlled by the Ministry of Works. All
aviation-related revenues accrue to the Government's general revenue fund,
and the Ministry of Finance effectively controls the civil aviation budget.
While the Director of Civil Aviation has the responsibility, he does not
have the authority, to plan and carry otut programs in an efficient manner.
Indeed, considering the constraints, it is remarkable that the Director has
achieved as much as he has.
2.        Each international airport is controlled by a resident Airport
Manager who reports to the Deputy Director of Civil Aviation - Ground. Each
has a large subordinate staff reporting to him. The Airport Manager's range
of decision-making is restricted, however, due to the centralization of de-
cision making, accounting and commercial services in the Civil Aviation
Department.
3.        An assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the present organi-
zation led to the following conclusions:
(a) Civil aviation regulatory activities, within the context of
the Jamaica Civil Service, have been conducted effectively
to date;
(b) The operation of Jamaica's airports is not presently fully
effective and efficient;
(c) The present organization is inadequate in the areas of
planning, marketing, and finance, both with respect to the
function that exists and to the number of competent
personnel employed;
(d) The CAD has, within its present staff, capability in a number
of civil aviation functions. However, the overall caliber
is not adequate to manage an operation of the present size
with the expected future growth and technological change
that may be anticipated;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(e) In the area of finance, insufficient control is vested with
the airports. In turn, skills and experience in the financial
area are not being satisfactorily developed; and
(f) Insufficient attention is now paid to long-term planning;
this can be attributed to the lack of a planning function.
In addition, the realization that the airport system is not
fully in charge of its own destiny, because of the influence
of other agencies, inhibits the planning initiative.
4.        The main improvements required are the following:
Organizational Improvements
-    Definition and Communication of Objectives
-    Definition and Separation of Functions (between regulatory
and airports operation)
-    Development of a Formal Organization Structure
-    Planning of Future Development of the Civil Aviation System
-    More Management Positions
-    Documentation of Job Descriptions
-    Fewer Financial Constraints
-    Fewer Senior Level Vacancies.
Management Improvements
-    Definition and Communication of Policies
-    Improved Delegation
-    Effective Management Controls
-    Better Management Reporting Systems
-    Management Development and Training
-    Realistic Salary Scale
-    Performance Evaluation Mechanism
-    Work Scheduling Techniques.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
5.        The Jamaica airports are not unique in the range of problems that
they are facing. Similar situations are evident in many other airport systems.
The common feeling is that efficient, profitable service can result only if
operations are carried out on a commercial basis and if management is charged
with full responsibility for operations.
6.        Because the airports are Government services, there has been a
tendency for operating problems to be examined using criteria other than those
which might be applied within a commercial organization. Pressures are some-
times brought to bear from the political sector, which unduly influence the
level of service and, on occasion, the type and location of facilities. As
might be expected, such pressures tend to detract from the efficiency of air-
port operations.
7.        A variety of constraints and pressures is imposed on the airports
due to the role played by other Government departments and agencies, including
the Ministry of W4orks, the Public Services Commission and the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. Operating as a Government department while providing a
commercial service hinders the achievement of an efficient operation.
8.        The senior officers of the CAD are dedicated, hard working, loyal
men applying themselves to the best of their ability. Financial and personnel
constraints, however, prevent the efforts of the present organization from
being fully effective. A number of areas for improvement were identified by
the consultants (Kates, Peat, Marwick & Co. and Montreal Engineering Co. Ltd.).
9.        Licensing of airmen, certificates of airworthiness and other regula-
tory functions of civil aviation are reasonably well carried out.
10.       The operational side basically comprises air traffic control and
airport operations. The flight information region (Jamaica FIR) is strate-
gically located with respect to a large portion of the air traffic between
the United States and South America, and the air traffic control unit must
provide a control service for these aircraft and maintain adequate communica-
tions with other adjacent control units in other countries.
11.       The radio equipment for air ground and ground point to point communi-
cations is generally old and not adequate for modern control needs. The
project will upgrade some of the more essential equipment for local control
and will be of immediate benefit to aircraft operating in Jamaica. A more
far reaching proposal being developed by ICAO is considered to be outside
the scope of the project, and, although necessary for the proper control of
enroute traffic, requires the cooperation of other states in the Caribbean.
The program of work contained in the project will significantly improve the
handling of aircraft, allow more economical operation and be consistent with
more sophisticated systems as they become necessary.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
12.       The control center for the Jamaica FIR is located at Manley airport
with hot line communications to the towers at Sangster as well as Manley.  The
controllers have received most of their training in the U.K., while a few
have had training in Canada. The standard of training has been excellent,
but, on their return to Jamaica, the men have had to take responsible charge
of a control position. In the case of the tower controllers, they have not
had the extensive experience normally acquired in a larger organization where
the man gradually works up to handling traffic at a busy airport. Lacking
this experience and confidence, the controllers tend to "go by the book," with
resulting delays to aircraft. It is recommended that the CAD'arrange f6r
assistance from an air traffic control specialist to work on the job with
the controllers to upgrade performance.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Future Organization
13.       The division of responsibility for civil aviation matters between
the AAJ and the CAD would be as follows:
Regulatory Functions               Operating Functions for International Airports
Civil                                       Airport
Aviation   ---Regulations -------- Authority
Department  ----------- Standards ---------  of Jamaica
International Agreements                  Implementation of Civil Aviation
Policy - Operating
Civil Aviation Policy Setting                     - Finance
Licensing                                 Commercial Services
Registration                              Marketing and Rate Negotiation
Long-Range Planning -                     Long-Range Planning - (Terminal
Air Side (Technical Standards)            Building and Facilities)
Air Traffic Control                       Construction Control
Aero Telecommunications                   Revenue and Expense Control
Aeronautical Charts                       Personnel Administration
Meteorology                               Training and Management Development
Facilitation                              Administration
Accident Investigation                    Maintenance
Housekeeping
Security and Policing
Fire, Crash and Rescue.
14.       This division places responsibility and authority for various
activities without ambiguity. It is desirable that both bodies report to
the same Minister in order to ensure that a consistent policy is imple-
mented.
15.       The main features of the Authority would be that:
(a) The operation of the international airports would be at a satisfactory
level of service and on sound commercial principles and practices.
In this connection, the financing of the international airports would
be separate and managed by the Authority;



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(b) The Authority would be authorized to set, collect and receive
airport user charges, to raise loans either on its own, on
a Government guarantee or from Government itself, for the
purpose of financing. The lands and structures which presently
constitute the two international airports would be vested in
the name of the Authority in right of Jamaica;
(c) The Authority would be empowered to make rules and regulations
for the management, control and regulation of the airports
under its jurisdiction; and
(d) It would have the objective of making the airports financially
self-sufficient. This would involve:
(1) Managing the day-to-day operations at each of
the airports controlled by the Authority;
(2) Staffing the organization structure;
(3) Implementing a financial planning system to
ensure that the Authority's objective of self-
sufficiency is attained;
(4) Maintaining adequate management controls and
financial records to monitor the operations of
the Authority;
(5) Maintaining facilities in prime operating
condition; and
(6) Implementing the operating and financial policies
laid down by the Board of Directors.
July 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1
JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of the Economic Evaluation
Economic Costs
1.        The economic cost of the project is taken as the cost of the
investment, excluding the estimated local taxes and the price contingency.
No specific evaluation has been made of operational cost increases for the
airport in view of the very marginal cost increases for aircraft maneuvering
areas.
Economic Benefits
2.        The most direct advantage of the project is the reduced congestion
at the existing two main airports at peak times, which results in higher air-
craft operating cost. Efforts have been made to spread the peaks, and any
possible further effective measures in airport tariffs to achieve this goal
will be investigated at the time of implementing increased tariffs. The
peak problem, however, is largely a result of conditions outside any control
of the airport authorities in Jamaica. The improved conditions at the two
airports, as a result of the project, would enable the proposed Jamaica
Airports Authority to raise airport revenues from their present low level,
which is caused by inadequate installations.
3.        A much smaller, but still important, effect is that of the passenger
time losses and their effect on the growth of foreign visitors.
4.        As a preliminary step, the consultants (Kates, Peat, Marwick & Co.
and Montreal Engineering Co. Ltd.) prepared a series of simulations for
Sangster (Montego Bay) airport to ascertain the delays to passengers and
aircraft, due to the present installations, at two-year intervals 1975-1979.
On the basis of these simulations and actual present delays for aircraft,
the time lost to passengers and to international airline aircraft was esti-
mated. The time lost to Air Jamaica aircraft and foreign aircraft was cal-
culated using an estimated 1974 direct operating cost per hour. For
foreign aircraft, this cost could not be considered of direct benefit to
Jamaica. However, a 75% increase in current landing charge rates (25% fol-
lowed by 50% increase in base tariffs) would be considered possible with
improved service provided, considering similar international airports in the
Caribbean. Such a recapture by airport charges is less than the direct cost
savings accruing to the foreign airlines; this _s done to retain an incentive
for such airlines to introduce more efficient aircraft in the future. The
hourly cost savings used increased from about J$ 1,100 in 1975 to J$ 1,300
by 1980 and J$ 1,700 by 1985 as a result of larger aircraft gradually being
introduced.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        The predominant passengers at Sangster are North American tourists.
Their time value was taken at 25% of their estimated income, or about J$ 2.70/
hr. This avoided time loss is not of direct advantage to Jamaica; it leads,
however, to a small, but rapidly growing, loss of visitors as the congestion
gets worse at a progressive rate. An indication of the order of magnitude
of such a loss can be obtained through the use of the elasticity of demand
to changes in travel time. Although,in fairly recent American studies, an
elasticity of -.58 to -.63 has been found, an earlier and more conservative
American and European factor of -.4 has been used for this determination of
traffic lost for Sangster Airport. With its compounding effects, this is
likely to lead to a loss of about 1,700 visitors in 1977, growing to 13,900
by 1980. Each visitor has been estimated to contribute J$ 51 net, after
import leakage and domestic resource use.
6.        For Manley (Kingston) Airport, the situation is different.  The
aircraft areas are generally better than those at Sangster, but have certain
restrictions such as runway length. The passenger composition is also totally
different. Predominant passengers are Jamaican residents and businessmen.
The time savings have therefore been estimated as working time saved for
Jamaican residents at J$ 2.10 per hour. No savings to foreign visitors have
been included.
7.        For aircraft, a number of invididual improvements will be made as
part of the project. To ascertain, with accuracy, the impact of each is
difficult. Therefore, as a proxy of this combined effect, the same 75% tariff
increase has been considered as representing the minimum of their value to
the user airlines.
8.        The following cost/benefit streams for the two airports have been
used:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Sangster Airport (J$ (000))
I VES T M E N T                                 B ENEBF IT S
754 Tariff       Value of
Aircraft                     Air Jame      Increase for    Lost Foreign
Year        Areas         Terminal      Cost Sav.   Foreign Airlines    Tourists
1974          390             _
1975        3,490           1,570
1976          993           1,570          150             208
1977          649             420           68             469               93
1978                                       485             581              236
1979                                       503             638              436
1980                                       521             696              711
1981                                       550             757              711
1982                                       580             817              711
1983                                       613             879              711
198h                                       647             940              711
1985-98                                    683           1,000              711
Manley Airport (J$ (000))
I N V E S T M E N T                                    B E N E F I T S
75% Tariff      Value of Time
Aircraft                             Increase for      Lost for Jamai-
Year        Areas         Terminal              all Airlines       can Residents
1974         357              -
1975       3,068             551
1976         416             551                      298                62
1977         513             148                      592                93
1978                                                  748               137
1979                                                  832               202
1980                                                  915               296
1981                                                  957               296
1982                                                  997               296
1983                                                1,041               296
1984                                                1,081               296
1985-98                                            1,123                296



ANNEX 4
Page 4
9.        The result of these estimates is the following:
Economic Rate of Return                      Sangster        Manley
Best Estimate                                   19%           19%
15% Investment Cost Increase                   17%            16%
25% Higher Benefits                            23%            23%
25% Lower Benefits                             14%            14Z
First Year Rate of Return
for Best Estimate                            14%            16%
Passenger Benefits Deleted                      14%           15x
July 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1
JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Landing Fees
(JS$)
A. International
Average maximum          Landing fee
Class No.     Type of Aircraft    Take-off Weight (lbs)    (before discounts)-
1         F-28            )           60,000                    37.50
Viscount        )
2         BAC-lll         )
DC-6           )           106,000                    53.60
Mercure 134    )
DC-9           )
3         B-727                      160,000                    72.50
DC-7
4         A-300           )
DC-8           )           325,000                  130.25
B-707          )
5         DC-10           )
L-1011         )           410o,000                  160.00
L-1011 S       )
6         B-747                      710,000                   265.00
B. Domestic
Twin Otter                 12,500                    20.675
HS 748                      44,0oo                    31.90
1/ Effective February 1, 1972, but with a discount of 37.5% for international
carriers on external flights (42.5% discount on internal flights).  On
August 1, 1973 these discounts were reduced to 25.0% and 37.5% respectively;
it is assumed that the discounts will be completely eliminated by April 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Comna,rative Aircraft Landing Fees,
(In US$)
DC-9/30             B-707/32CB
(98,000 lb)          (327,000 lb)
Jamaica (gross, before rebates)               56                    144
Puerto Rico                                   19                     62
Antigua                                       53                    157
Bahamas                                       57                    194
Trinidad                                      50                    167
Panama                                        67                    222
Barbados                                      79                    309
Colombia                                     100                    340
Venezuela                                    107                    355
Bermuda                                       72                    166
Mexico                                       132                    478
Guadeloupe )                                  73                    377
Martinique )
2/ As per 1973 Edition of ICA0 Tariff Manual.
March 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
JAMAICA
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Forecasts - Assumptions
Revenues
Landing Fee Revenues
1.        Based on passenger traffic forecasts, broken down over airlines
and aircraft types to produce numbers of landings for each aircraft weight
bracket. Present landing fees used until March 31,1975 (with partial adjustment
in rebates on August 1, 1973); then assume all rebates revoked. Proposed
further increase of 50% as of April 1, 1976, followed by 25%, as of April 1977
and 20% as of April 1978.
Space Rentals
2.        Present rents payable by international airlines occupying office
space within terminal buildings are little different from those charged when
existing airport facilities were completed in 1960. Rates are based on square
footage occupied.
3.        Terminal building is regarded as a prime area - assume a doubling
of rents when Authority takes over. For industrial area, no change in level.
On completion of project, additional facilities will provide increased rents,
in addition to periodic increases in levels due to renegotiations of leases
in light of rises in costs.
Concessions
4.        Present concession rates appear in excess of current rates in the
commercial world.  Therefore no significant increase in level of rates assumed.
Increases in income assumed in line with forecast increases in passengers and
other airport users.
Fuel Charge
5.        The present through-put charge of J$ 0.0045 per gallon is considerably
lower than rates at other international airports throughout the world. It is
assumed that the new Authority will double this rate. Annual increases in
revenues are forecast in line with projected aircraft movements, stage lengths
and other factors.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Car Parking Revenues
6.        No revenue is currently collected at Sangster.  It is assumed that
the new Authority will rectify this. In addition, present rates at Manley
are low in comparison with commercial rates in Kingston City; therefore, a
rise in the level of charges is assumed, together with annual increases in
total revenue in line with forecast movements of passengers and their well-
wishers.
Miscellaneous
7.        Comprises receipts from airport users for utility services provided
(e.g., telephone and electricity charges). Current miscellaneous revenue is
expressed as a percentage of total revenues; this percentage has been applied
to forecast revenues.
Passenger Departure Tax
8.        Assumed that annual revenues from this tax in excess of about J$ 1.2
million will accrue to the Authority. Forecasts of revenues are based on the
rate of tax (J$ 2.00 per head) multiplied by projected movements of passengers
departing on external flights, less 20% to allow for non-paying passengers,
such as diplomatic personnel and children.
Expenses
Labor Costs
9.        On creation of AAJ, assumed salaries of senior and technical staff
will be about doubled to retain and attract qualified staff. Thereafter,
annually, an inflationary increase of 7.5% assumed. The forecasts are also
based on the estimated staff requirements for the airports, as assessed by
the consultants.
Materials and Services Expenses
10.       Taken as equal to salaries and wages, net of fringe benefits, and
of the effect of doubling salaries (as noted above). Slight annual increases
due to traffic rise, plus the 7.5% annual inflationary increase.
Provision for Replacement of Assets
11.       Annual provision calculated as 4% on the gross value of fixed assets;
2% is taken on new assets in the year of acquisition.
February 1974



_    W                S          o  X                   OI-o  
,, X l g .~~~~~~~~'        -
f 0 : C~~~~~~~~) X - 
P 4'              U                           sTr S L~~~0' 
0~~~0 03        t  0A    >
t/R                               -f  ;            0
ED-10.  ''iD..-''.'V's-',.''1'.-I-
v~~ '~                       f-     






WIND DATA  fror Goo O J Lco. AirMtOi,rV
T.k.n Jan.. . tl DeC. 8'
WINOCOVERAGE       ,,
."'"11'-29 99.%
4-, 
3.~
LILHT OG
J A M A I C A                                                            PlU OMB POINIT
KINPG STON
LAND USE
NORMAN MANLEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                                                                500                           A.  76o
II                  G u /f o f Mx eJ SO co  .      5AHAMAS
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                  RNB. -   ,  CAN4 REPUBC
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
EXISTING    RUNWAYS                                                             100.W 9Ibb -
GUAThL  :Q0NDuPffi    Cr b  00 
EXISTING FACILITIES                                                               NELSA        CAL  GIA ? _
3                                EXISTING KOADS                                  !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ 5,00 1000 15P0 2000   C S    8 \MZE 
EXISTING ROADS                                             FEETCOTCA                                    ANA          EEZ0A
3T7he boundaies shown on this map do nSOt                               COLOMBIA     O
endorsement or acceptance by the                     -_
World Bad ndisafiitLI*TRNATIONAL BOUNDARIE






*F 15              BO5    sa  Dt O7   730  66                                                                                                                            7' *1
I  ~ ~~~~U6'A.              f                                                                                                                    ./                  /
Gulf oaf                        SAHIAMAS
Mexico 
DOM6INICAN
CUBA            RCP/B/IC
MEXICO gl eiB  ZE      JAMAICA TI^0 e/
GU    t16     A LtfA-      Caribbean Sea
160  EL SALV    NICARA  UA                     0
oi  COSA,    C                                                                                                                                                       From G-Lt of Jamaica Air Mini,try
Meteorologicel Offitn
Total obntal, o - 43.824
--INTERNATIOVAI,.        COLOMBIA         -Token A"pti 62 t. Mmclh 67
9E<}    fKt   fi0O  7,Ji    zOo  61s   b        -          3       -     t                  /                                      WINDCOVERAGE
Ronay 06-24-99 1 %
The btouodorfrs dIZ0nc 00 ts Mop do ",,t
Imply erndortewtrtt or ecotane by the
Worl Rmk and its qefflikto,
/ ~~~~~~~~MONOTEGO B1AY
y-- - Ateo9wt a                        /LAND USE
DONALD SAN GSTER INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
m  ff  ///  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
EXISTING  RUNWAYS
m    EXISTING  FACILITIES
EXISTING  ROADS
0     s1   1000  1500   2 000
FEET
t'0
A N



