Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2852-1 GE
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 18, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 2852-1 GE
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 2001, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Health Project) (Credit Number 2852-GE), dated May 9, 1996 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Borrower’s Project designed to support the health reform efforts 
initiated by the Borrower to improve the health of the Borrower’s population (the 
Project); 
(B)
The Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Project due to the need to cover additional 
Project-related costs resulting from necessary adjustments to the Borrower’s health 
sector strategy as a result of unforeseen events at the time of the signing of the 
Development Credit Agreement, by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  (SDR 2,200,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
The following new paragraphs are added, reading as follows:
"(a)
deleting the word "and" at the end of paragraph (f);
(b)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (g) by a semicolon 
and adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(c) 
adding the following new paragraph:
‘Amending Agreement’ means this Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Health Project) between the Borrower and the Association 
signed on May 9, 1996."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,900,000) (the Credit), which 
includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies equivalent to nine 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,700,000) (the 
Initial Financing); and (b) a supplemental amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,200,000) (the Supplemental Financing)."
Section 1.03. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit 
Agreement, the date of December 31, 2002 is the Closing Date of the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
Section 1.04. The following sentence is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) 
of the Development Credit Agreement:
";provided, however, that any commitment charge in the Supplemental 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days (60) after the date of the 
Amending Agreement;".
Section 1.05. Section 2.07 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
Section 2.07. (a) For the purposes of the Initial Financing, subject to 
paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the 
Credit in semi-annual  installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 
commencing October 1, 2006 and ending April 1, 2031.  Each installment to, and 
including, the installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the 
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the 
review 
and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the 
terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not 
yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so 
requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to 
include, in lieu of 
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the 
Page  3
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment 
modification.  
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic 
condition has deteriorated  significantly, the Association may, if so 
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to 
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
(d)  
For the purposes of the Supplemental Financing, subject to 
paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and 
October 1 commencing October 1, 2011 and ending April 1, 2041. Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on April 1, 2021, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall 
be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(e)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the 
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(f)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount 
of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(g)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic 
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested 
by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the 
schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 1.06. Table 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  4
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        
% of
(Expressed in        
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works                5,301,370
80%
 
(2)
Equipment supplies         4,000,000         
100% of foreign
and vehicles                                 
expenditures;
100% of local                                        
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80 % of local                                                
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services,     2,380,000         
100% 
training and study tours
(4)
Refunding of Project
      58,630       
Amount due pursuant  
       Preparation Advance                          
Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated                  160,000
 
TOTAL               11,900,000"
Section 1.06. Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
"(1)   preparatory work for the partial rehabilitation of two blocks 
in Tbilisi City Hospital #2 and rehabilitation of the Tbilisi Gudushauri 
Hospital;"
Section 1.07. Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
"(2)
design work for the rehabilitation of the Kutaisi District 
Hospital."
Section 1.08. The date in the statement at the end of Schedule 2 is amended to 
read June 30, 2002.
Section 1.09. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
as follows:
"SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  5
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic             
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower, and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Specialized medical and laboratory equipment, which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
and the Borrower shall use the Standard Bidding Documents, Procurement of Works, 
Smaller Contracts, issued by the Bank in September, 1995 with minimum changes, 
acceptable to the Bank, as necessary.
3.
International and National Shopping
 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $510,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $385,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more, and the first contract awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
3.    Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1. 
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
Section 1.09. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement is  
deleted and the following paragraphs of said Schedule are renumbered accordingly."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
GEORGIA
By /s/ Zurab Nogaideli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/  Tevfik M. Yaprak
Authorized Representative
