Report No. 193&-KE                                                           FLE  COPY
Appraisal of
Livestock Development Project
Kenya
May 9, 1974
Agricultural Credit & tivestock Division
Easttern A;rit a Regiorl OQuitc 
Not for Public Use
Document of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. it may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept respon-
sibility for the accuracy or completeness of the reporL



CURRFNCY 3iUIVALEiTS
US$ 1.00     Kenya Shilling 7.1h (Ksh)
KSH 1.00  -U5$ O.1l
'ZIORTS AND .EASbRWS
EXcept where otherwise stated all tonnages are expressed in metric tons
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)              -         10,000 m2= 2.1(1 acres
1 kilometer (km)                      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kn2)              0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram  (kg)                      2.20 poundE
1 liter (1)                 =         0.26 gallons
1,000 kg   1 metric ton               0.98 long ton
A BBREVIATI014S
AFC           Agricultural Finance Corporation
FMD           Foot-and-Mouth Diseare
KMC       =   Kenya Meat Commission
LMD       =   Livestock Marketing Division
MA            Kenya Ministry of Agriculture
P1lTA      -  IBiD Pbrmanent Mission to Fast Africa
SIDA      =   SwediEh International Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..     . . ........... ...*e** i - i
I.        INTRODUCTION ..............a..........esaa...  t
II.       BACKCROUND            ...........................    2
A#   General ................... . ***...........   2
B.   The Agricultural Sector *.... ...................   2
C.   Marketing and Processiag .... ..... to .......      4
D.   Government Services . ....... ...... .. .......    .   5
E.   Agricultural Credit ....................  .5
III.      FIRST LVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PRJECT ...................   6
IV.       THE PROJECT .........................................          7
A.   General Description ............ . .......    7
B.   Detailed Features .       ......... . .......       8
C.   Cost Estisates .......... ..   ........  12
D.   Financing                          ......***.§  14
E.   Procurement ...         .......... ...  *aa...14
F.   Disbursements ...............................  15
G.   Accounts and Audit t............ ... .90...*   15
H.   Envlronmental Impact                               16
V.        ORGANIZATION AND MNAGEMNT ...........................  16
VI.       PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFnTS ...........  18
VII.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFTCATION .......................... ..  19
VIII.     RECOMMENDATIONS *.............*         .     ........   20
This report it based on the fldings of an IDA appraisal mission to Kenya
in October-November 1972 composed of Messrs. H. Walshe, T. Rusain and D. Loma
(IDA), P. Brumby. FAD/IBRD, and T. Bodkin and N. Dyson-Hudson (Consultants).



XVNEXES
1.  Livestock Production in Kenya
Table 1   Distribution of Cattle and Human Population and Cattle
Sales Classified by Farming Categories.
Table 2   Prices of the Main Carcass Crades by Years.
2.   Wildlife
3.   Livestock Marketing
Table 1   Capacity of the LMD Transport Fleet.
Table 2   Cattle Passing Through the Market/Stock Route System.
Table 3  Projection of Cattle Marketed - Northeast District.
Table 4   Projection of Cattle Marketed - Southern District
Table 5   Markets, Stock Routes, Holding Grounds, Details of
Investment Items.
Table 6   Economic Analysis of Cattle Trucking vs. Cattle
Trekking from the Northeast 1 Walk to Isiolo)
4.  Meat Processing
Table I  Sumary of KMC Present Investment
5.   Agriculture Finance Corporation
Table 1  Financial Statemnents - Cash Flow
Table 2   Financial Statements - Income Statement
Table 3   Liabilities and Assets
6.   Development Projections
Model:  Crouip Ranches - 16,00) ho
Tahle 1  Hlerd Projection
Table 2   Investment Costs
Table 3  Sales and OperatinF Expenses Projection.
Table 4   Incremental Cash Flow
Model: Company or Cooperative Ranch - 28,000 ha
Table 5  Herd Projection
Table 6   Investment Costs
Table 7   Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table A   Incremental Cash Flow
Model: Commercial Ranch - 3,400 ha
Table 9  Herd Projection
Table 1) Investment Costs
Table 11 Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 12  Incremental Cash Flow



ANNEXES (Continued)
Model:  Feedlot 1,600 Head Capacity
Table 13 Herd Projection
Table 14 Iavestment Costs
Table 15 Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
table 16 Incremental Caih Flow
Range Water Development (Grazing Blocks)
Table 17 Isiolo: Investment and Recurrent Costs
Table 18 Northeast: Investmnt and Recurrent Costs
Livestock Marketing
Table 19 Investment Costs
Table 20  Operating Costs-Market and Transport Development
Table 21  Operating Costa-Market Stock Route and Holdivg Cround
Development
Table 22  LMD-Revenues and Costs
Wildlife Development
Table 23  Investment Costs-Ahbosell and masai  eare
Table 24 Investment Costs-Nairobi Park
Table 25 Investment Costs-Census and Monitoring
Table 26 Consolidated Increomntal Costs and Revenues
Technical Services
Table 27 Costs of Project Management Unit
Table 28  Costs of Investigation and Technical Training
Table 29 Costs of Veterinary Services
Table 30 AFC - Project Technical Services
7.   Phasing of Investment Costs
Table 1   Phasing of Investment Costs
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
9.   Agricultural Finance Corporation:  Project Cash Flow
10. Financial Rates of Return
11. Economic Analysis
Table 1   Estimate of Beef Export Surplus, Non-Agricultural Population
Table 2   Economic Rate of Return
Table 3   Income Dittribution Effect of the Project
Table 4   Estimate of Net Foreign Exchange Earnings
Table 5   Exports of Chilled and Frozen Meat
Table 6   Average cif Price for Chilled end Frozen Meat



QCARTS
AFC, ThUD No. 6712
Project, IBRD No. 7704
MAPS
Marketing, IBRD No. 10311
Range and Raxch Development, IBID 10312



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In view of Kenya's high potential for livestock development, the
Government continues to give high priority to the improvement of the live-
stock production, marketing and distribution system. Particular emphasis has
been placed on the development of ranches, comsunal range grazing, disease
control and wildlife resources.
ii.       The Project would be the second IDA credit for livestock develop-
ment in Kenya. The first credit, for US$3.6 million in 1968, assisted beef
production on ranch enterprises and eomnunally grazed rangeland.  It also
provlded improved facilities for livestock movement and marketing in part by
providing credit to traditional pastoralists. Since 1960 six other loans
or credits totalling US$20.2 million have been extended to Kenya for agricul-
ture. These include two for smalIbolder tea, two for agricultural credit,
and one each for land settlement and forestry. Performance under these projects
has been generally satisfactory.
iii.      The proposed Project would develop about 60 group ranches, 100
commercial ranches, 21 company or cooperative ranches and three feedlots. It
would also provide for the development of seven million acres of communal
grazing land in Northeast Province and about three million acres in Isiolo dis-
trict by providing water facilities and access roads. Marketing facilities
would also be extended: 30 cattle markets would be established, existing
holding grounds would be improved, and stock routes would be improved wlth the
setting up of 80 new holding grounds. Transportation facilities would be aug-
mented with the provision of five cattle trailers and 10 cattle trucks. Three
wildlife areas would be developed to help overcome the resource competition
with livestock; livestock census and monitoring units would also be included
in the Project to improve technical knowledge in this field. Finally, the
Project would provide for technical services, training, Project monitoring and
evaluation, and for future project preparation.
iv.       Total Project cost over the five-year period from 1974 to 1979 would
be about US$60 million. Foreign credits of about US$34 million (including
an IDA credit of US$21.5 million) would finance foreign exchange costs of
US$19 million and about 35Z of local currency costs of about US$41 million.
U.S. financing--US$7.3 million--would finance water development and some
ranch development. Canadian financing--US$2.4 million-would finance water
development and the wildlife census and monitoring unit. U.K. financing--
US$3.7 million_-would finance the livestock marketing component. The
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) would be the lending channel for



- ii -
loans to Projecc beneficiaries for ranch development and feedlots. Governwent
would onlend the relevant portion of IDA and U.S. financing as well as its
own contribution to AFC for a term of 20 years, including a grace period
of five years; interest would be at 3% per annum, tne rate under the First Live-
stock Project. AFC onlending terms would not exceed 10 years with a grace
period of three years, and the interest rate would be 8% per annum. Funds
for communal grazing schemes, livestock marketing, wildlife development and
technical services would be invested by the Government directly.
v.        A Project Coordination Unit would be established in the Ministry
of Agriculture to coordinare and sufpervise implementation of the Project;
personnel would include a Project Co-ordinator, an Assistant Project Co-ordina-
tor and supporting staff. Technical services would also be-provided to assist
AFC and the Livestock Marketing Divisiox (LMD) of the Ministry of Agriculture
to implement the Project.
vi.       Procurement procedures tinder components financed by U.S., U.K. and
Canadian aid would be in accordance with those countries' respective procure-
ment regalations. Due to the fact that operations would be scattered over a
wide area, ranch and other infrastructures within components financed by IDA
would he constructod by local contract or force account.
vii.      Beef prices would be decontrolled within a three-year phasing plan.
Current prices are about 25Z below export levels.
viii.     The estimated financial rate of return on the beneficiaries' incre-
mental investments would range from 12 to 23%, while the rate of return to
the Kenya economy would be about 25%. The Project at maturity (1985) would
increase annual beef production by about 23,000 n tons, a 50% increase over
present marketed levels. The net foreign exchange generated by the Project
at full development is estimated at US$7 million annually. At full develop-
ment the Project would create about 5,000 new jobs in addit'on to engaging
10,000 families totalling 50,000 people on the ranches. Communal range water
development would benefit about 90,000 pastoralists.
ix.       The Project would directly benefit poor pastoralists and other small
cattle owners and wage employees on commercial and company ranches, in meat
marketing, meet processing, wildlife and range water development. In addition,
higher prices for beef would transfer income from relatively prosperous urban
consumers to the poorer rural producers.
x.        The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$21.5 million.



SEOOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  wRTRODUCSION
1.01      The Government of Kenya continues to place high priority on live-
stock and agricultural development. In particular, support has been pro-
vided for the subsistence or semi-subsistence sectors by the development of
programs In the poorer regions and by the provision of essential infrastruc-
ture, credit and other services.
1.02      Under the First Livestock Project financed by a 1968 IDA Credit,
now almost fully disbursed, support was provided for ranch development, water
facilities on communal range land, technical services, and facilities for
livestock marketing. The proposed Project would finance a second stage of
the livestock development program. It would again assist ranch development.
range vater development and livestock marketing, and would also support
wildlife conservation and technical services. Government's ori&inal request
included two items which were excluded during appraisal. The first was
financing for 110 individual ranches on range land currently grazed communally
by semi-nomadic cattle owners and on which ownership is being vested ln
individuals or groups. These ranches were omitted due to social, economic
and ecological considerations (e.g. there is not enough land available to
provide viable ranches for all; because of their small size they would be
located in better rainfall areas, making it more difficult overall tc es-
tablish viable group rancies; and in most cases investment costs per ha would
be high). The second proposal was for a major expansion of a Foot and Mouth
Disease (PMD) control program costing about US$10 million over four years.
The mission considered that the purposes of such a program could be more
economically achieved by other means (Annex 1).
1.03      Between 1960 and March 1974 Bank/IDA have made seven loa0n  and
credits to Kenya totalling US$23.7 million for agricultural projects. These
include two for smallholder tea, two for agricultural credit, and one each
for land settlement, forestry and livestock. In addition Bank/IDA ha"re lent
sizeable amounts, US$116 million, for the development of the road netuork
which has brought a wide range of benefits to agriculture, tourism and to
the economy as a whole. Performance under these projects has been generally
satisfactorv, although there were substantial delays in the first agricultural
credit and livestock projects due to institutional problems (para. 3.03).
1.04      The Project was prepared by the Government with assistance from the
IBRD permanent mission to East Africa (PMEA). This report is based on the
findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Kenya in October-November 1972 com-
posed of Messrs. M. Walshe, T. Husain and D. Lomax (IDA), P. Brumby, FAO/IBRD,
and T. Bodkin (Processing Plant Engineer) and N. Dyson-Hudson (Anthropologist),
Consultants. Messrs. R. Hoffarth (US/AID) and G. Dion (CIDA) also participated
in the mission as observers.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Lying astride the equator on the eastern coast of Africa, Kenya has
an area of 582,750 kn2 and a wide variety of climatic and ecological  conditions
.ranging from sei-desert to temperate.. The population is now estimated at
about 12.5 million, and is growing at a rate of about 3.3% per year. About 80%
of the population lives in rural areas and depends on agriculture for its
livelihood.
2.02      The Cross National Producet (GNP) in 1972 was about US$2.0 billion
(about US$160 per head) and had increased &sout 6.5% per annmi over the pre-
vious 8 years. Exports in 1972 (including tourism) totalled about US$550 mil-
lion *d imports US$600 million. These had been growing at 12% and 7.5Z per
snuo respectively resulting in a deterioration In the trade balance.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for 31% of GDP and 60% of the total value of
exports. Basic food crops are maize, wheat, millet, potatoes and plantains/
bananas. Main export crops are coffee, tea and pyrethrum. Livestock produc-
tion, valued at about US$89 million in 1972, constituted about 4.5% of GDP
and contributed about 91 to total exports.
2 04      Kenya may be roughly divided into areas of high agricultural poten-
tial - these comprise about 20% of the country and include the highlands and
coastal belt regions - and the range areas, suitable mainly for the extensive
production of livestock for both subsistence and commercial needs. Out of
Kenya's total area of aaout 58 million ha, only about 4 million ha are pres-
ently cultivated. It is estimated that an additional 8 million ha is suit-
able for cropping and improved pasture. Rangelands occupy about 80% of the
total area (46 million ha) and contain about 10% of the total population;
these have considerable potential for livestock and wildlife development.
Under a rangeland adjudication program, land ownership is being vested in
individuals or registered groups; at the present time an active program is
being carried out in the Rift Valley Province.
Livestock (Annex 1)
2.05      Livestock represents a major national resource to Kenya.  The live-
stock population comprises about 9.5 million cattle (including 0.5 million dairy
cows) and about 8 million sheep and goats. About half are concentrated in the



-3-
densely populated agricultural areas and the other hale are widely scattered
over the sparsely populated rangelands. About 0.5 million head are found on
large-scale commercial ranches; these are the main source of quality beef pro-
duction.  Growth in the national herd has averaged about 2% over the past dec-
ade.  About P,0O,000 head of cattle are slaughtered annually, a total offtake
rate of about 9%. However only about 285,000 head are marketed through com-
mercial channels, resulting in a comerrcial offtake rate of about 3%, abour
half of which comes from commercial farms and ranches and half from tradi-
tional pastoral areas. Domestic per canita beef conasumption (about 13 kg) is
high in comparison with that of other countries in castern Africa. Exports of
livestock were valued at about US$24 million in 1972 and US$17 million in
1971 and represented significant increases over the previous five years when
beef exports averaged US$8 million.
Animal Health
2.06      Rinderpest has been successfully controlled by a compulsory vaccina-
tion program involving about 0.75 million cattle per year. Government has
also made progress in the control of other important diseases which currently
limit animal movement and production. These are East Coast Fever, Trypan-
somiasis, Contageous Bovine Pleuropnwumonia and Foot and Mouth Tlsease (FMD).
During the past five years 40,000 km  has been established in or around e-
tral Province as a FMD free zone. About 0.8 million cattle are vaccinated
each year with appropriate FMD vaccine types. Outside this area PFD is en-
demic in the livestock and wildlife populations. Pleuropneumonia is endemic
in Northeast Province, but has been prevented from spreading to other areas
by strict Government control on livestock movement and by the vaccination
and quarantine of all marketed animals.
Wildlife (Annex 2)
2.07      Wildlife is an important natural resource and Kenya has paid con-
siderable attention to conserving its unique population of wild animals. The
main commercial uses of wildlife resources are viewing, hunting and cropping
for meat and products. Of these viewing is by far the most important, and
wildlife is considered a major tourist attraction. Kenya's rapidly gro-ring
tourist industry earned about US$7h million in 1972 (15% of foreign exchange
earnings) and almost 600,000 tourists visited national game parks and reserves.
2.08      There are eight national parks and sour County Council game reserves
in Kenya with a total area of about 24,500 km . The largest national park,
Tsavo, has an area of about 20,576 km2.  Although due to different grazing
and browsing behavior wildlife and domestic animals are in some respects com-
plementary in their utilization of rangelands, they often compete for the
same scarce feed and water resources; there are also negative interactions
through disease transmission and predation. There is, therefore, an inherent
conflict in the projected development of rangelands for beef production and
the goals of wildlife conservation programs. This conflict is of immediate
concern in the vicinity of national parkf and game reserves, where rangelands
are being actively adjudicated. Wildlife will be endangered in many areas



-4-
unless their unrestricted movement over these rangelands is assured. 1I C@v-
ernament is seeking to alleviate the problems by providing alternative water
supplies outside the wildlife reserves in order to limit o- eliminate the noverent os
livestock into these arcas, and by compensating ranch owtners for permitting
wildlife on their property. Government has agreed that compensation would
be made in the form of transfer payments from income generated by the wild-
life parks (para. 4.08).
C. Marketing and Processing
2.09      All existing livestock markets, stock routes and holding grounds
are owned and operated by the Livestock Marketing Division (LMD) of the Min-
istry of Agriculture (Annex 3). LMD acts as a buyer of last resort, and is
the largest buyer of cattle from Northeast Province, " private traders are
unwilling to undertake the risk and expense associated with Pleuropneumonia
vaccination and quarantine requirements.  In 1972 LMD purchased about 182 of
total cattle marketed (50,000 head) and purehases were almost entirely from
Northeast Province.  In many areas marketing facilities are Inadequate or
non-existant and it is Government's intention that LMD upgrade these by pro-
viding essential infrastructure in all areas.
2.10      The Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) represents the most iwportant segment
of the meat processing industry. It owns and operates two large meat packing
plants at Athi River and Mombasa. With current improvements the processing
capacity of these facilities will be about 155,000 and 60,000 head of cattle
respectively. Sixteen KMC licensed abattoirs (improved slaughter slabs) owned
by local government authorities slaughter about 90,000 head of cattle and about
90,000 sheep and goats. In addition local butchers and private slaughtering
for hone consumption accounted for about 0.5 milliorn head of cattle and 2.5
million head of sheep, goats and calves (Arnex 4).
2.11      KMC has a monopoly over exports of meat and neat products.  About
50% of its total production is exported, and for the year ending October
1972, exports comprised about 10,000 m tons of canned corn beef, 150 m tons
of meat extract and 2,500 m tons of chilled and frozen beef. Most of the
canned beef was exported to the U.K. and the chilled and frozen boneless cuts
have recently been sent to Italy, Spain and Switzerland. The Athi River plant
is within the disease free zone and is generally regarded as up to export
standards. However, it is close to areas where FMD is endemic and it is
necessary for it to accept cattle from t.hese areas. Because of this it is
difficult to meet FMD import requirements for certain European countries.
I/   A UNDP/FAO Wildlife Management Proiect costing about US$2.5 million (of
which Kenya Covernment contriouted 40%) was iniriated in 1971 to provide
research into wildlife Lropping and the integration of wildlife and
cattle ranching.



G. Government Service5
2.11      ReqnonsiMlity for agricultural services rests with the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Range Management Division is adequately staffed with about
360 orofessional and technical employees and receives substantial assistance
from USAIn ranpe advisors and FAO/UNDP specialists.  In addition to field and
extension activities. the Division is also charged with responsibility for ini-
tiating research on rangelands. The Range Water Division, which also receives
considerable technical assistance from USAID, is responsible for water supplies
on range areas. It is adequately staffed and its overall performance has been
satisfactory. The Department of Veterinary Services is actively involved in
the implementation of a program for control of the iœportant diseases which
limit cattle movement and production. Education and training services have
recently been expanded.  Sufficient veterinary graduates are being trained
in the University of Nairobi, which now also provides degree training in
General Agriculture. However, there is no University degree training in
animal husbandrv and range management and supplemental staff will continue to
be recruited overseas. In addition, a considerable number of students re-
ceive training abroad in these suhjects under bilateral programs. Sufficient
dinlrrna level staff will be provided from Fgerton College's three year diploma
cotrse in raneme management, and from the Animal Health and Industry Training
Instittute (AHITI) at Kabete.
,. Agricultural Credit
2.13      The Kenva banking psytem consists of a central bank, seven commercial
banlzs. the Agricultural Finance Corporatlon (AFC), the Cooperative Bank, and
several statutorv boards for croo oromotion. The Central Bank exercises little
control over agricultural lending excent by setting the prime interest rate.
The commercial banking system as of June 30, 1973 had total advances of Ksh
2,448 million, of which 10Z was direct lending for agriculture to about 7,500
farmers and a7ro-industrial corporations. The Cooperative Bank loan advances
at June 30, 1971 amounted to Ksh15 million, of which about Ksh8 million was
provided for production finance. Certain statutory boards provide credit in
kind to 75,000 farmers for the production of crops for which they are the
single marketing channel. Apart from these institutions AFC is the main credit
channel for small and medium-scale farmers. As  of March 31, 1971, AFC loans
wprp -iho':t Krh?OO million to Fome 1h,00o fanners.  Interert rates orn
agricultural credit are in line with those for other purposes. Commercial
banks charge 8 to 9% and AFC 8%; co-operative membere are charged 10% by their
societies.
2.14      AVC provides medium and lonp-term secured credit for agricultural
development and works closelv with the M1inistry of Agriculture on matters of
policv and in field work. AFC financinr is provided mainly by Government in
the form of enuitv and loan capital. The loan capital includes IDA funds.
Apart from the First Livestock Project AFC has been the channel for two IDA



tw der these credits es.-sof,as Ke   't-Al-i9.tll; this total
is cxoecteO toe,_ ea  t xt 4` years (A,mex 5).
2.~~ IS  Only abe,  O7.Er~~~?  ~~11lton kfirfermers are prese'ntly -served
bv institutional credit;  If a significant nwmber of farmers are to be reached,
the credit structure twill need to be reorganized. IDA Second Smallholders
Agriculture Credit Project provided funds for an in-depth survey of the demand,--
for and supply of credit, the potertial involvenent of other lnstitutions in
addition to AFC, credit constraints and,how-they,can be removed, interest
rates and lending priorities. rhe r-tudy is-expected to be completed during
197T.
I1I.  FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVWT.OP  NT PROJECT
3.0l      The fIrst IDA Credit for livestock development was extended in 1968,
with a total prolect cost over a five-year neriod of about US$11.4 million.
IDA an1 SIDA (Sweden) jointlv financed some 63% of total costs with equal
contributions of USS3.6 million.  The princinal objective of the oroject was
to increase beef production by providins' credit for four different types of
ranching enterprises. It also provided facilities and service for livestock
marketing, range water develooment on communal land, and disease -control.
Under the project credit was extended for the first time to traditional
pastorali.ts to assist them in the transition from a subsistence to a market-
oriented economyv.
3.02      The organization and mfanazement of the First Livestock Project was
the rosnonsibilit- nf ArC, and the head of its Ranch Section acted as project
mannae-r. This arrangement wais cumhersome as the nrolect manager, located in
ArC, had nefthor the power nor thi status necessary to influence the govern-
rnent agencoes.
3.03      The project was slow in getting underway, mainly due to organizational
and arrmi istrattvp delavs.  There were nrohlertq in recruiting qualified staff,
leral dilficultie,; with land titles and loans, and delays in establishing a
credir  v'tee- for groin and comnanv ranch development.  The project picked up
morent"if  duri-:ig 1970.  Bv March 1972, funds for ranch development had been
fullv c"Tmittod. with 9n aoplicationq anoroved compared with 60 orojected
at aneratIs;t. I his greater numher reflected lorpr group and company ranch
le'i{-ioo offs-,t liv an underestimate of demand for commercial and individual
ranch loans.  Individual ranch loans were 37 cormpared to an estimated 10 and
commercial loans 39 connared with 2n; groun ranch loans totalled 9 rather than
the estimated 20, and companv loans S rather than 1n. Financing of the in-
creased nirnher was made possible by an overestimate (about 70%) of the size of
the loan renuired for a commercial ranch. For the project as a whole, long-
tern- loans for fixed investment were generally overestimated and short-term
loans for steer purchases were seriously underestimated.  Loan categories were
revised in 1Q72 to reflect actual demand.



-7-
3.04      All funds are now committed; 83% of the credit was disbursed by
April 30, 1974 and it is estimated that all IDA funds will be disbursed
by December 1974. The livestock marketing component has helped LMD to
increase its cattle purchases from 15,000 in 1968/69 to 50,000 in 1971172.
Field visits indicate that borrowers have derived at least the financial
benefits forecast at the time of appraisal. Even though the number of group
loans fell short bf the projected total, this concept represented an inno-
vative means of ranch development. Taking into account the delays in land
adjudication, the legal difficulties, and the fact that the project areas
reserved for group ranches proved too restrictive, the results achieved were
encouraging.  A particularly significant feature has been the willingness
of sedii-nomadic cattle owners to participate in group and company ranches,
and of small livestock owners to form companies to own and operate commercial
ranches in the higher potential areas. The first project has, therefore,
broken new ground in making credit available to pastoralists and small berd
owners and has encouraged Government to prepare a larger and more comprehensive
Second Livestock Project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Second Livestock Development Project would be a broadly based,
integrated program which would increase beef production in Kenya over five
years through ranch development, and the improvement of essential infrastruc-
tures. It would also provide for wildlife conservation and development.
The Project would include:
(a)  establishment and/or improvement of about 60 group ranches, 1/
100 commercial ranches, 21 company and cooperative ranches and
three feedlots;
(b)  improvement of about 7 million acres of communal grazing
land in Northeast province and about 3 million acres in
Isiolo district through provision of water facilities and
access roads;
(c)  establishment of 31 new cattle markets and 30 new holding
grounds as well aa the improvement of existing holding
grounds and stock routes by providing water, stock han-
dling facilities and bush clearing;
1/   The nomenclature relating to ranch types is that regularly used in Kenya.



(d) provision of 10 cattle trucks and 5 cattle trailers;
(e) -development of three wildlife areas and provision for a
wildlife and livestock census and monitoring service;
(f)  technical services, training Project monitoring and
evaluation and future project preparation.
All components with the exception of wildlife continue operations Etarted
under the First Livestock Project. A Project Co-ordination Unit would be
set up in the Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate and supervise Project
operations. The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) would be the credit
channel for ranch lending and feedlots.
B. Detailed Featuyes
Ranch Development (Annex 6, Tables I - 12)
4.02      Group ranches are enterprises in which 50 to 100 families collect-
ively hold title to land, maintain agreed stocking levels.  arket surplus in
rotation, and yet continue to own their livestock as individuals. Debt liabi-
lity and loan servicing ia a group function; repayment is effected by a "per
head of cattle" charge to Individual cattle owners for services rendered by
the group. Prcfit sharing by and cash distribution to members is based on the
sale of their own animals minus their proportion of comon expenditures. The
Project would finance about 60 group ranches located maiuly in Kajiado, Narok
and Samburu districts (Map, IIRD 10312). They would be established oan trust
land which in the past was cornwall  grazed, but which is currently being
adjudicated and ownership vested in groups or Individuals. The average size
would be about 16,000 ha but a considerable range in size is expected depend-
ing on ecological and other local conditions. on the ranches the carrying
capacity of the rangeland would be increased from about 2,500 animal units to
about 3,500 animal units at full development. Breeding and fattening opera-
tions would be carried out. The main investmnt items on these and the com-
pany and cooperative ranches discussed below would include water development,
firebreaks, farm roads, stock dipping and handling facilities, workmen's
housing, farm equipment, breeding stock, steers and incremental working capital.
-Average investment per ranch would be about Kahl.0 million.
4.03      Company ranches are enterprises in which land is leased from Govern-
ment or County Councils and prospective shareholders put up cattle or a cash
equivalent for shares. Animals are collectively owned and profits shared ac-
cording to established agreement. Cooperative ranches are similar in nature;
'the main distinction being the method of shareholding. The Project would
finance the development of 21 company or cooperative ranches on rangeland in
Taita, Tana, Kwali and Kilifi districts. The average ranch size would be
about 28,000 ha; carrying capacity would be increased from 1,200 animal units
to about 3,000 at full development. Average investment per ranch would be
about Kshl.7 million. It is expected that each company ranch and co-operative
will have at least 50 members.



-9-
4.04      Commercial ranches are owned by one or more individuals or a company
(typically made up of 200 to 500 small farmer shareholders) on freehold land.
The Project would finance the development of about 100 commercial ranches
located in Nakuru, Laikipia, Byandarua and Machakos districts. Although a
considerable range in size is ex-pected, the average ranch would be about
3,500 ha. Although development of these ranches is already relatively
advanced, funds would be provided for further development; the main items
financed would include water and stock handling facilities, breeding stock,
steers and incremental working capital. The average investment per ranch
would be about KshO.9 million.
4.05      Feedlots.  (Annex 6, Tables 13 - 16)  The Project would finance three
feedlots outside the disease free zone. Two of these would be located in Narok
and Kajiado - areas where FMD is endemic and where a number of group ranches
would be located under the Project. In the event of an FMD outbreak, the mar-
keting of livestock from these ranches would be necessarily limited by veter-
inarv restrictions. Tne feedlots would overcome this constraint by enabling
healthy animals to be moved to the feedlots for vaccination and cuarantine;
the animals would then be moved by truck to the Athi River processing plant.
A third feedlot would be established in West Kenva to utilize surplus molasses.
Each feedlot would have a capacity of 1,600 head in yards and an additionial
1,600 head on improved pasture. The main items financed would include cattle
yards, feeding facilities and feed handling equipment, pasture development,
farm machinery and incremental working capital to purchase the first batch of
feeder steers. The Project would provide funds for feedlot development through
AFC; these would be owned either by private individuals or by Masai cattle
owners, and organized as companies or cooperatives with or without government
participation. Assurances were obtained that present FMD regulations would
permit or be modified to permit the movement of healthy cattle from Project-
supported group ranches to feedlots, and from the feedlots by truck to the
Athi River plant, provided that cattle were from ranches without infected
animals and that vaccination and quarantine procedures were properly imple-
mented and supervised.
Range Wlater Development - Isiolo and Northeast Grazing Schemes
4.06      Northeast rangelands have an estimated one million head of cattle
and are the principal source of immatures for fattening elsewhere in Kenya.
The Project would develop about 3 million acres in the Isiolo district and
about 7 million acres in Northeast Province. The main items financed would
be water facilities, access roads, livestock dips and handling facilities,
staff housing, vehicles, and operating costs for four years.  Permanent water
facilities consisting of either boreholes or ponds would be proviied on a grid
of about 15 - 40 miles, with small temporary water ponds interspersea.  Cattle
numbers are projected to increase from about 100,000 to 150,M00 head in Isiolo,
and from 100,000 to 250,000 head in Northeast Province. (Annex 6, Tables 17
and 18.) Although the provision of improved water facilities would be tne
main tool for increasing cattle numbers, improved range management and animal
production techniques would be introduced by extension staff of the Range
Management Division.



- 10 -
Livestock Marketing (Annex 6, Tables 19 - 22)
4.07      The Project over three years would develop S large (capacity 500
head/day) and 26 small (capacity 200 head/day) cattle markets on existing or
new holding grounds. It would also develop three small markets for sheep and
goats. The Project would provide pens, simple livestock handling facilities,
office building, stores, water facilities and weighbridges.  The Project would
develop about 30 new holding grounds with total area about 200,000 ha. These
would range in size from about 80 to 35,000 ha and woLld be located at strategic
points on the existing stock routes network. The Project would provide for bush
clearing, boreholes, storage tanks, water points and stock nandling facilities.
Financing would also cover two veterinary laboratories, two small boat ietties,
vehicles and operating costs for three years. The Project would provide 5 cat-
tle trailers (72 head/train) and 10 cattle trucks (32 head/truck) and 12 pick-
up trucks over three years. Cattle trailers would be used to trensport cattle
from the Northeast and the cattle trucks mainly for transporting cattle from
Kajiado and Narok districts. All markets, stock routes, holding grounds and
transport equipment will be owned and operated by IMD.  (Map, IBRD 10311)
Wildlife (Annex 6, Tables 23-26)
4.08      Amboseli and '1asai Mara Park Developpent.  Because of its rich
wildlife resources and its potential as a tourist resort, Government has
decided to convert Amboseli game reserve to a national park and to extend
the Masai Mara reserve. As certain areas would be reserved solely for wild-
life, the result would be that cattle owners would be deprived of dry season
water suprlies. The Project would compensate for these restrictions on live-
stock movemeLtt by providing wacer from present sources within the reserves
to surrounding areas.  Basic inputs would be 90 Ima of water pipelines, 220
water tanks, pumping equipment, vehicles, and operating costs for four years.
[ooer L!i- L,r:d adludicaL[on program, the rangelands in the vicinity of the
game reservcs are rapi'Jlv being developed for beef production. Wildlife in
LhCse areas would be endangered unless the cattle owners agree to allow the
uaresttrtCLedm ro.Ser-ent of the game across the cattle ranches.  Government has
agreed t!L.L ca.tle owners on group ranches in the Amboseli and Masai Mara
e.osyst.t:.s3 should share in the revenues from game.  An assurance was obtained
that prior to any investment in water supplies, the Government would agree
with thi  ;-attle owners on the exclusion of liveetock from the game rererver
:i  -..-.p rted &J- tt.L iroj-ct and t'ie payment rchemelVfor permitting
Is   i     r  .'d C, SlCil  L.l::i.~
4.09      Nairobi Park Development.  The Nairobi National Park recorded
140,000 visitoLs in 19;1 and is close to visitor saturation.  The parks
area is about 144 Kr' but the wildlife dispersal area is 1,950 Km carrying
an estimated 50,000 wild and 46,000 domestic animals. The proposed project
1/   Tne guiding principle in designing a payment scheme would be that cattle
owners would at the very least be compensated for the reduction in cattle
income due to a proportion of the carrying capacity being taken over by
game.



- 11 -
would support the inclusion of a further 350 Km2 within the park boundary to
alleviate the conflict between the development of ranching and wildlife con-
seivation. The area to be included has already been adjudicated.
4.10      Census and Monitoring Unit.  The Project would establish a census
and monitoring unit to provide up-to-date baseline data on wildlife, live-
stock, and cultivation in pastoral areas. Information would then be avail-
able for identification of livestock development areas together with the
ability to asses'  possible conflict with the wilcl-fe populat-on.  Itens provided
would include an initial aerial survey, one aircraft for monitoring, vehicles,
weather equipment, a senior scientist and supporting personmel.  The Game De-
partment of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife would be responsible for
carrying out the wildlife component of the Project, including provision for
census and monitoring. An assurance was obtained that terms of reference
for carrying out the censusing and monitoring studies would be prepared in
consultation with IDA.
Technical Services
4.11      Technical services to be provided under the Project would include;
(a) Livestock Marketing Division. Supplemental supporting staff
(i.e. a senior buyer, a transport officer, five maintenance
supervisors, and an accountant) and operating expenses for
three years (Annex 6, Table :9);
(b) Agricultural Finance Corporation. An assistant to the head
of AFC's ranch section. In addition, AFC also requires three ac-
countants, fourteen livestock/credit officers and other support-
ing staff to meet the operational needs of the Project; office
equipment, vehicles and vehicle operating costs would also be
covered (Annex 6, Table 3'));
(c) Meat Processing. Technical services (consultants) to assist
Covernment in carrying out a feasibility study to determine
strategy for the meat processing industry in Kenya and to re-
view the number, location and size of plants, projected benefits
in livestock movement, disease control and producer prices. As-
surances were obtained that within one year o. credit sign-
ing Government would employ consultants to carry out the meat
processing industry feasibility study whose qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment would be accep-
table to IDA (Annex 6, Table 28);
(d) Veterinary Serviczs. A Pleuropneumonia mobile testing unit,
housing, vehicles and field equipment, three veterinary officers,
supporting staff and operating expenses (Annex 6, Table 29);
(e) Training. Training (four 2-year overseas fellowships) for
technical staff and provision for study tours or consultancy
for disease control (Annex 6, Table 29);



- 12 -
(f)  Project Co-ordination Unit.  This Unit has been established
in the Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate and supervise
Project operations. Under the directions of a Project Co-
ordinator, Assistant Project Co-ordinator and supporting staff,
it would have responsibilitv for ensuring that Project-related
investigational work, Project evaluation, and monitoring were
carried out (Annex 6, Table 27); provision would be made for
consultant services to assist Government in the preparation
of future livestock projects. (Annex 6, Table 28).
Operating Expenses and Working Capital
4.12      The Project would also include incremental working capital require-
ments for ranch development.Warkin-capital for the initial three years of
ranch development is 100% of incremental steer purchases and 50% of incurred
operating cost. The Project would also cover: LMD incremental operating
costs for the first year, excLuding technical services and cattle purchases;
the first four years of incremental operating costs for wildlife development,
range water development, veterinary services; and incremental operating costs
incurred by AFC under the Project. Each of these is treated as a development
cost while necessary expertise is built up.
C. Cost Estimates
4.13      Total Project cost is estimated at US$59.7 million of which
US$18.9 million or 32% represents foreign exchange requirements. Details
are summarized in the following table:



----- Kh million-------   -----US$ million------    Foreign   ;t of
Exchange   Project
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total-                   Cost
Ranch Development
Fixed Investment           31.3     34.1      65.4    4.38       4.77      9.15      53
Breeding ttock            93.3       -        93.3   13.07        -      13.07       -
W.brking capital
(inc'uding rteer
purchaee)        28.5       9.1     37.6    3.99       1.28      5.27       25       72
153.1     43.2    196.3   21.44        6.05    27.49       22
Ran7e Water Deve-
lopment
IFiolo DiFtrict            3.3      3.2        6.5      .46       .46       .92      50
Northeast Province          4.2    11.i4      15.6      .59      1.59     2.18       72        8
7.5    14.6       22.1    1.05       2.05     3.10       66
Livert)ck  aketng
Larket _                    3.5     6.4        9.9      .49       g9       1.39      65
Stock routes                8.0     7.1       15.1    1.12        .99     2.11       4_
11.5    13.5       25.0    1.61      1.89      3.50       54        9
Wildlife
lm-boell and MaFai
Mara                 1.0      2.7        3.7      .1h      .38       .52       75
Nairobi iHark               3.5     2.7        6.2      .47       .39       .86      45
Censu:-ing and
Monitoring                1.8     3.2        5.o      .25       .1        .70      64
6.3     8.6       14.9      .86     1.22      2.08       5e        6
Je'.e r nary
ServiceF                    2.2     1.1        3.3      .31       .15       .46      32        1
Re-earch and
Technical Services          1.5     1.9        3.4      .21       .25       .46      55        1
ir*aect Co-ordination
Unit         .9       .7       1.6      .12       .10        .22     45        1
Azri cultural
Finance Corporation        3.6      2.2        6.o      .53       .31       .86      37        2
186.8    85.8      272.6   26.13    12.02       38.15      31      100
ContingencieE
Phycical                    1.3     1.5        2.8      .17       .22        .39     54
Price                     103.5    47.6      151.1   I4.50      6.66      21.16      31
Svbtotal            lo4.8    49.1      153.9   14.67       6.88      21.55      32       36
Tot.- riroject CoFtp   291.6   134.9       426.5   40.8      18.9       59.7



- 14 -
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in 1972. A physical contingency
of 10Z on physical investments for Nairobi Park, the census and monitoring
unit and livestock marketing, has been included. Price contingencies have
been included on all costs to reflect anticipated inflation rates. There
are no duties or taxes levied on any capital items included in Project costs
and corporate income taxes are insignificant. The phasing of investment
costs is given in Annex 7.
D. Financing
4.14      The Project costs would be financed as follows:
Ksh million    US$ million        z
Government of Kenya
and other donors                 211.6           29.6         49.6
Project Berificiaries               61.4            8.6          14.4
IDA                                153.5           21.5          36.0
426.5           59.7        100.0
The IDA credit of US$21.5 million would be on standard terms to Government.
Of the US$29.6 million to be provided by Government and other donors, other
donors will finance not less than US$13.4 million. U.S. financing of not
less than US$7.3 million would be forr^nch and northeast water development.
U.K. financing of not less than US$3.7 million would be for Livestock
Marketing Development and Canadian financing of not less than US$2.4 million
would be for Isiolo Water Development and the censusing and monitoring
component of Wildlife Development. Funds for ranch development and feedlots
would be channelled through AFC to the final beneficiaries, who would con-
tribute a minimum of 20% of development costs by providing cattle or funds;
those for all other components would be invested by Government directly.
Government would onlend IDA and U.S. funds and its own contribution to AFC
under the terms and conditions set forth in para. 5.02. It would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable
to IDA would be executed between Government and AFC, and that all other
financing arrangements under the financing plan had been made effective.
E. Procurement
4.15      Procurement procedures under components financed by U.S., U.K. and
Canadian aid would be in accordance with those countries' respective procure-
ment regulations. Due to the fact that operations would be scattered over a
wide area, ranch infrastructures financed by IDA would be constructed by



- 15 -
local contract or force account. Draft tender documents for all contracts
expected to exceed US$30,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before
invitations are issued. A broad range of items of less than US$30,000 would
be purchased locally and where appropriate, would follow Government procurement
procedures which are acceptable to IDA. All livestock purchased under the
Project would be procured locally; supplies are adequate. 1/ Appropriate
assurances that the foregoing procedures would be followed were obtained
during negotiations.
F. Disbursements (Annex 6)
4.16      The IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years ana would cover:
(a) 50% of total expenditures under ranch and feedlot loans
(equivalent to 58.5% of development costs), US$16.0 million;
(b) 50% of total expenditures for wildlife development for
Nairobi, Amboseli and Masai Mfara Parks,US$0.8 million;
(c) 100% of foreign or 50% of local expenditures for consul-
tants' services and technical services,US$0.40 m:llion;
(d)  50% of total expenditures for Project Unit,Veterinary
and AFC Project-related costs,US$0.8 million.
Disbursements under Ranch and Feedlot loans, for Wildlife development and
Project Coordination Unit and AFC costs will be made against certificates
of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be submitted for re-
view, but would be retained by the Borrower and available for inspection
by the Association during the course of Project supervision missions.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.17      AFC has had difficulty in implementing a satisfactory system of
accounts and financial control. These problems are compounded by the in-
sufficient number of available and suitably qualified accountants. The
financial staff provided under the Project should help to strengthen sub-
stantially accounting procedures and controls. AFC's accounts are audited
by Cooper Brothers and Company, Kenya. The Project Co-ordination Unit
would be required to set up an accounting system which would reflect the
application of funds to various components of the Project. Assurances
were obtained that the Livestock Marketing Division would set up a satis-
factory accounting system under an experienced accountant who would estab-
lish financial procedures and introduce cost accounting and control systems.
ArFuranzeF were also obtained that AFC, and LMD would have their accounts
1/   Study of the availability of Fattening, Beef Breeding and Dairy Breeding
Stock in East Africa (1970-75), PMEA January 1972.



- 16 -
audited by independent auditors and that auditor's reports would be sent to
IDA not later than six months after the end of their respective financial
years.
H. Environmental Impact
4.18      The project, with proper implementation and monitoring (para. 4.10)
to avoid overgrazing, is not expected to have a deleterious environmental
impact.
V. ORGANIZATION AND M'i.kGEMENT
Project Co-ordination Unit
5.01      Overall responsibility for cordination and implementation of the
Second Livestock Project would be vested in the Project Co-ordination Unit
(para. 4.11(f)) in the Ministry of Agriculture. The unit would also have
the responsibility for the implementation of Project training activities.
The Unit consists of a Project Co-ordinator appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture and responsible to the Director of Agriculture, an Assistant
Project Co-ordinator and supporting staff. In addition to responsibility for
the Project, the Unit would have responsibility for Project-related investi-
gational work, Project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, as well as mon-
itoring and evaluation of the First Livestock Project. The monitoring to
be carried out by consultants, universities, or other appropriate agencies,
would include: (a) a farm management and accounts survey based on a strati-
fied sample; (b) a survey of the ecological, social and economic impact of
the Project; and (c) investigation of the efficiency of varied functions
such as cattle marketing, meat processing etc.  An officer of the Department
of Tourism and Wildlife would be seconded to the Unit to assist in the eval-
uation of investment plans, taking into account environmental considerations.
Before investment plans are submitted to AFC for final approval, the Project
Co-ordination Unit would evaluate them as to technical, economi:, ecological
and aesthetic suitability. The Government has established the Project Co-or-
dination IUnit with appropriate supporting services and has employed a Project
Co-ordinator and Assistant Project Co-ordinator whose qualifications, and ex-
perience are acceptable to IDA. A staffing plan acceptable to IDA for the
Project's technical and managerial staff setting out the main duties and re-
sponsibilities of the proposed posts, and the type, qualifications and experi-
ence of the staff to be recruited and the proposed dates of appointment was
discussed and agreed at negotiations. The staffing plan detailed the specific
and incremental staff requirements of the Project Co-ordination Unit, the
Livestock Marketing Division and AFC. An assurance was obtained that the
agreed staffing plan would be carried out.



- 17 -
Agricultural Finance Corporation
5.02      The Second Agricultural Credit Project includes provisions for
overcoming AFC's organizational and accounting difficulties and a start has
been made on implementing these. The Project would require the further
strengthening of AFC; these needs would be met by the provision of mana-
gerial, accounting and technical staff.  Interest rates in Kenya are being
reviewed under the credit study provided under the Second Credit Project (para
2.15). Meanwhile, in order to facilitate the strengthening of AFC's financial
position and to enable it to build up reserves, IDA funds would be made avail-
able to it for 20 years including 5 vears grace at 3% annually, the rate ap-
plying under the First Livestock Project; AFC would lend to final benefici-
aries at 8% annually (.ts current lending rate) for 10 years including 3
years grace, giving AFC a margin of 5% annually. AFC's lending procedures
are given in Annex 5. AFC Project cash flow is detailed in Annex 9.
Ancillary Technical Services
5.03      The Ministry of Agriculture would have the main responsibility for
providing ancillary technical services through the Range Management and Water
Development Divisions and the Department of Veterinary Services (para. 2.12).
Due to the inherent conflict in the development of rangelands for beef pro-
duction and the goals of wildlife conservation (para. 2.08), there are prob-
lems involved in setting limits on the stocking rates for all range-lands.
The Range Management Division and the Department of Tourism and Wildlife will
be jointly responsible for reaching an agreement on the stocking rates to be
imposed. The Government has confirmed its intention to examine methods for
the collection of fees from cattle owners in Isiolo and Northeast Province
grazing schemes to recover total costs for the use of water and other facili-
ties.
Livestock Movement and Marketing
5.04      The Livestock Marketing Division (MND) of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture would have continued responsibility for livestock movement and marketing.
Its functions would include (a) buying and selling of immatures and slaughter
cattle; (b) provision of auction facilities; (c) development, operation, and
maintenance of stock routes, holding grounds and markets; (d) transport of
cattle by cattle truck and road trailer. The Government verterinary service
would continue to have responsibility for disease control and certification
in the marketing and movement of livestock. Because of the special problems
involved in marketing cattle from the Northeast (para. 2.09), the 1LMD market-
ing operations are not yet financially viable. The stock routes, holding
grounds and transport facilities financed under the Project should alleviate
some of the problems.  Since Government intends that LIMD should become finan-
cially viable, an assurance was obtained that LMD would charge fees which
would ensure this. The charges and fees used in the projection for LMD (Annex
6, Table 22) are included as a guideline.



- 18 -
Senior Staffing
5.05      The present holders of the nosts of Head of AFC Ranch Section,
Head of Livestock Marketing, Range Management and Range Water Divisions
arc considered satisfactory. Assurances were obtai-.eb that futire appoint-
ments to these offices would be maade in consultation with IDA.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MAA(ETING AND P'ODUCFR BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Incremental production from the Project by year 5 would be about
50,000 head (7,000 m tons meat). This would represent an increase of about
18% in marketed production over current levels. At full development in 1985
(year 12) the Pioject would produce an additional 140,000 head (23,000 m tons
mcat) annually - a 50% increase in marketed production over current levels.
The carcass weight per animal is expected to increase from the current weight
of 140 k;/animal to about 165 kg/animal. About half of the increased produc-
tion would be attributed to ranch development; the other half would be from
the Northeast grazing scheme and the development of livestock marketing.
6.02      Wholesale beef prices are controlled, and prices paid by KMC to
producers follow a published schedule (Annex 11). On 'average, they are about
25% below export leve13. These low prices have discouraged beef production
and encouraged consumption in urban areas, and have also resulted in the vir-
tual stagnation of beef exports. Accordingly, assurances were obtained at
negotiation that price controls on all grades of meat would be phased out fol-
lowing a plan acceptable to IDA. The decontrolling of beef prices would en-
courage the Froduction and consumption of other meat and would thus release
increased amounts of beef for export a3 well as generally encourage invest-
ment in livestock development. At the present level of 13 kg per capita
consumption, 15,000 m tons of beef over and above the present export level
of 12,000 tons would be available for export by 19R5. If domestic per capita
consumption were to increase by more than 2% annually, total incremental pro-
duction would be absorbed by local consumption and the exportable beef surplus
would be eroded. The adjustment of Government's policy on beef pricing and
the substitution of other meats for beef is therefore crucial.
Marketing
e.03      The Project's marketing component is expected to substantially in-
crease offtake from the traditional herd by facilitating the movement of
cattle from the Northeast, Southern, and Eastern Provinces. Of the additional
140,000 nead produced under the Project, about 50,000 would be directly attri-
butable to the marketing component representing aoout 60% and 10% of tot.l in-
cremental production in the Northeast and Southern regions respectively. All
marketing is the responsibility of LMD, and financial projections indicate
that anticipated fees and charges would be adequate for financial self suffi-
ciency. To ensure an efficient marketing system, an assurance was obtained



- 19 -
that a grading and pricing structure relating live weight to carcass value
and providing adequate incentives to producers would be established in con-
sultation with IDA within one year of the signing of the credit.
Producer Benefits
6.04      The rate of return on incremental investment would range from 12 to
232 on the ranches, and would be about 16% on the feedlots and 18% on invest-
ments in livestock marketing. The increases in income and the financial
rates of return would be sufficiently high to make the proposed investments
attractive (Annex 10). In calculating these returns, current prices for
inputs and control free prices for outputs, were assumed. Producer benefits
in Northeast Province and Isiolo would be derived mainly from the provision
of water to complement existing feed. Per capita cash incomes in these areas
are about IUS$56 per annum; the Project is expected to raise these to about
ITSAS per annum by 1985 (Annex 11).
VII. BENEFITS AID JUSTIFICATION
Additional Output
7.01      Incremental beef production under the Project would be about 23,000
m toxis of meat at full development in 1985 - an increase of about 50% over
the present marketed production of 43,000 m tons (Annex 11). Part of this
incremental proiuction would increase foreign exchange earnings by increasing
the export of canned, chilled and frozen beef probably by expanded sales to
their present markets. The main increase would be in exports of chilled and
frozen beef. If prices were decontrolled (para. 6.02), the exports of chilled
and frozen beef would rise fron about 2,500 m tons in 1972 to about 6,000 m
tons in 1978; export of canned corned beef wiould increase from 10,000 m tons
in 1972 to about 1',000 m tons in 1978, a total increment of about 4,500 m
tons.  The Project would, therefore, enable Kenya to diversify its beef
export mix, presently dominated (80%) by canned corned beef exports. By
1978 the net foreign exchange earnings from incremental exports would be
about US$1 million annually; by 1985, with additional investment in meat
processing, this would increase to US$7 million per annum.
Economic Pate of Return (Annex 11)
7.02      The economic rate of return from the Project is estimated at 25%.
Unskilled labor was shadow priced at 50. of the market wage rate (the market
wage rate is Kshl,800 per annum) in view of the substantial underemployment in
the range areas; and foreign exchange costs and benefits (exportable beef)
were shadow priced at KshlO per US$1 to reflect more adequately the scarcity
value of foreign exchange (the official exchange rate is Ksh7.14 per US$1).
If neither labor nor foreign exchange were shadow priced, the economic rate of
return would be about 21%. The individual economic rates of return of the
separate project components have not been calculated as the degree of interde-



- 20 -
pendence of some components would imply arbitary cost and benefit apportion-
ment. Separate financial rates of return have been evaluated however (para.
6.04); each of these is satisfactory and in each case the economic rate of
return would be higher.
7.03      An increase in investment costs of 10% would lower the .ate of return
to 2-3%. If investment costs were increased and benefits decreased by 10%, the
rate of return would be about 177. Even under these unfavorable assumptions,
however, the rates of return are still high. Nevertheless, the Project is
not without risks. While the potential for expanding the livestock sector
is great, the Droblems of implementation are likely to be considerable, mainly
because of lack of managerial and technical expertise. Although the basis for
ranch organization has been pioneered under the first project, it is too early
to assess the impact of group and company ranches because of the complex social
and organizational factors involved.
Employment and Income Distribution
7.04      At full development (1985) the Project would create 5,000 new jobs
within LMD, AFC and on the wildlife and grazing schemes. 10,000 families
totalling 50,000 persons would be engaged on the ranches and their per capita
cash income would increase from US$56 to about US$190 per annum. In the
Northeast and Isiolo the water development schemes are expected to benefit
the 40,000 pastoralists of about 200,000 cattle (assuming five cattle/capita),
increasing their cash incomes from US$56 to US$80 per aneaui at full develop-
ment. Since average per capita income in Kenya is about US$140, the project
would benefit primarily the poor sector of the population. Income re-distri-
bution will rFeult fro: the decontr&!kng of priceE and revired gradinm
and pricing structures (paras. 6.02 and 6.03).
VITI. REC0IiM.PDATI0NS
3.M1      During negotiations, the following principal assurances were ob-
tained from Government:
(a)  That the agreed staffing plan would be carried out (para. 5.01).
(b) Price controls on all grades of meat would be phased out over
3 years following a plan acceptable to IDA (para. 6.02);
(c)  A grading and pricing structure relating live weight to carcass
value and providing adequate incentives to producers would be
established iii consultation w7ith IDA within one year of the
signing of the credeit (para. 6.03).



- 21 -
^.02      Conditions of credit effectivencss would be:
(a)  Stubsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IDA would be executed
between Government and AFC (para. 4.14);
(h)  All other financinig arrangements under the financing plan had
been made effective (para. 4.14).
.3.(3     ni.T iproposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
(redit of I'S$21.5 million.
i.:-, I'i,



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Production in Kenya
General
1.        The land area of Kenya is about 583,000 km2, about 20% of which
has agricultural potential. The remainder is mainly rangelands with vary-
ing degrees of aridness and suitable only for extensive beef production.
2.        Agriculture is the most important sector of Kenya's economy,
accounting for 31% of GDP and 60% of the total exports and engaging 80% of
total population (12.5 million). Gross agricultural marketed production was
US$297 million in 1972, of which US$89 million (30%) was contributed by live-
stock and livestock products. The growth rate (1966-1971) for livestock and
livestock products was about 6% p.a.; the rate for all agricultural marketed
production was about 4% p.a. The value of livestock production in relation
to the rest of the sector increased from 20% in 1970 to 30% in 1972 as a
result of decreased agricultural production due to drought and a reduction
in the price of coffee and tea.
3.        The livestock subsector contributes a small share to Kenya's
external trade. Livestock imports are negligible; exports of livestock
and livestock products were about US$12.6 million in 1970 and accounted
for 6.3%. of total commodity exports. In 1972 the export value for livestock
and livestock products was US$24 million, accounting for 9% of total
commodity exports. The potential for increased livestock production is
considerable because oi the favorable environment and demand for beef and
beef products on world markets.
4.        The Second Development Plan emphasizes the need for increased
productivity and provides for an increase in the quantity and quality of
inputs into agriculture. In the livestock subsector the plan calls for a
decrease in the time taken to bring cattle to slaughter weights, improvement
in the transfer of cattle from range areas to slaughter plants, and the
transfer of immature cattle from marginal breeding lands to areas of greater
potential to increase the weight of beef produced per animal and to permit
an increase in the number of breeding cows to be kept on these ranges.
Beef Cattle Production
5.        The beef cattle industry is divided into a traditional and a modern
commercial sector. The cattle population of about 9.5 million is about
equally distributed between the rangelands, most of which have a rainfall
of 600 mm or less, and the better agricultural areas. The pastoral tribes
of Kenya, who occupy most rangelands, keep cattle primarily for subsistence



ANNi X 1
Page 2
consumption. As milk is the major subsiscence food, thie proportion of cows
in tthe pastoral herds is large; in times of severe scarcity (drought)
few male calves are reared and offtake rates are theretore relatively low.
Cattle sold are primarily steers of about 250-270 kg liveweight. Unproductive
and aged cows are used largely for local consumption. Mature females make
up about 43% of cattle numbers and IilK yield per lactation is of the order
of 250-350 kg. Calving rates are believed to average 65%. About 44 ha and
five head of cattle are available per he?ad of pastoral population. The
distribution of cattle, human populations and cattle sales, classified by
farming categories, is given in Table 1.
6.        The commercial cattle sector consists mainly of large ranchtes in
the higher rainfall zone.  The ranchas were mainly European-owned, but an
increasing number are now farmed as *~ompany ranches with share holdings
owned by a large number of Africans. Crossbred cattle of European and
Zebu origin are common on these ranches and dairy ranching is often practiced.
Production coefficients are substantially higher than in the pastoral areas.
There are about 1.8 ha of pasture per animal unit and the livestock/human
population ratio is 1.3, including urban areas.
7.        Livestock husbandry in the range subsistence areas is similar to
that in the pastoral zone, but greater population densities and higher rainfall
lead to a much greater reliance on agriculture for basic food production.
The g-razing area per animal unit is about two ha and there are about 0.9
animal units per head of human population.
5.        Animal production irn the higher potential smallholder districts
is more commercialized, particularly with respect to dairy production.
Present stocking rates are about 0.9 ha per animal unit with about 0.8 animal
units per human.  Kilk yields range from 850 to 2,000 kg per lactation.  As
in the range subsistence and pastoral zones, the heavy grazing pressure leads
to the early slaugher of nany male calves and the preferential use of limited
feed supplies for lactating cows.
Ranch Develoyment
9.        The project would support the development of group, company, coopera-
tive and commercial ranches. Group ranches are production enterprises in which
Su to '09 familiem collectively hold title to land, maintain agreed stocking
levels, market surplus in rotation, herd their livestock as sex/age aggregates
and yet continue to own their livestock as individuals. Debt liability and
loan servicing are a group function; repayment is effected by a "per head of
cattle" charge to individual cattle owners for services rendered by the group.
Profit sharing to members is based on the sale of their own animals minus col-
lections for loan servicing. Company ranches are enterprises in which land
is leased from Government or County Councils and prospective shareholders
put up cattle or a cash equivalent for shares.  Animzls are collectively owned
and disposed of, and profits shared according to established agreement. Man-
agement are paid and operate under a policy-making board of directors. There
are generally at least 50 shareholders per company, and in the case of 'directed'



.ANSEX t
Page 3
companies (Government representative on board of directors), the number of
shareholders is much larger. Cooperative ranches are similar in nature except
for the method of shareholding. Commercial ranches are owned by one or more
individuals or a company on freehold land; they are usually located in high
agricultural potential areas. Ranches owned by European settlers are being
gradually purchased by Kenyans. Usually a large number of Keny.ms (200-500)
form a company or cooperative to proiide the funds to aurchase an existing
ranch.  Part of the ranch is normally used as a settlement area and the re-
mainder is operated as a commercial ranch with paid management.
Breeds
10.       The indigenous Zebu, with a total of about 8.8 million head, is che
most important type of livestock in Kenya. Two subtypes and a number of
intermediate stages can be identified. The Large East-African Zebu which
occupies the Northern and Northeastern range areas, totals about 1.6 million
nead.  The Small East-African Zebu is indigenous to the highlands and South-
ern range areas, and totals about 5.1 million head. Some 2.1 million head
are of intermediate size. The major part of the country's commercial beef
cattle is composed of improved Boran and its crosses with exotic breeds;
there are about 500,000 suchi animals in Kenya. The majority of dairy cattle
are owned by snallholders and settlement farmers in Central province, and
these are increasing rapidly in the high potential areas of WJestern Kenya.
The annual increase in the number of dairy cows is currently about 8%, and
a large proportion of the dairy herd are crossbreds of exotic dairy breeds
and the indigenous Zebu.
Animal Health
11.       The major animal diesease problems of Kenya include Trypanosomiasis,
East Coast and other tick-borne fevers, Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
and Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD). Rinderpest, once a major problem, has
been almost completely eliminated. The standard of veterinary services in
}:enya Is good and an active pro,gram of disease control is being pursued.
12.       Diease control problems are aggravated by the movement of wild
game, the unauthorized movenment of cattle in spite of rigid restrictions,
and the largely free movement of cattle across national frontiers.
13.       Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is widespread and represents an
important constraint to the proposed export of meat to Europe.  The disease
is tmdenfic in the main pastoral regions where outbreaks are now controlled
by restrictions oni stock moveient.  In the central areas of the country,
biannual vaccination of about one million cattle has largely eliminated
PU). The disease causes minimal production losses in indigenous Zebu cattle
and widespread vaccination of these animals is of questionable economic
merit. The crossbred cattle of the higher rainfall areas show greater losses
when infected and their protection by vaccination and movement control is
most desirable.  As carcass meat for export must come from the present FYD
disease free zone, the economic merit of any expansion of this controlled



ANNEX I
Page 4
area is closely linked to the potential surplus of good quality cattle for
export: and to the price differential available between those markets (e.g.
Europe) requiring meat from FMD disease free areas and those which are less
stringent in this requirement (Libya, Hong Kong, Saudi Arabia and Zaire).
The price differential between these markets is p'resently minimal.
14.       An FOD control policy for Kenya necessitates the minimization of
the FID threat to existing control areas ana che inclusion in new vaccination
canipaigns of those areas with a rapidly expanding proportion of grade cattle.
An extension of the FEDl campaign on the scope proposed by Government, (three
million additional head vaccinated/year) may not represent the most cost-
effective use of resources. The threat of FMD infection from Masailand
could be avoided by  iniiimizing cattle movement by constructing fattening
and slaughter facilities in Karok and Kajiado, rather than by initiating
an expensive and operationally difficult FMD campaign in Masailand. The
construction of two feed lots in this area would ensure sufficient capacity
to market the offtake from the proposed group ranches. The areas where the
proportion of grade cattle numbers are increasing and which are net surplus
areas in terms of cattle movement include parts of Machakos, Kitui, Barengo
and Elgeyo Marakwet.  These are likely to be the priority zones for any
extension of future compulsory vaccination campaigns. Smallholder areas with
increasing numbers of grade cattle, but which are net import areas, are of
less strategic importance and can be protected by voluntary vaccination
campaigns.
15.       Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia has been confined to the North-
east provinces and all aniimals moved from this area, as well as from
iasailand, are subject to a most rigorous program of bLuodtesting and vac-
cination. Cattle scheduled to go to the large farm areas of Kenya for
further fattening must pass three consecutive tests at least six weeks apart
before they are released from Government holding grounds. This testing
and clearance procedure frequently requires up to six months. The holding
ground charges are passed on to the herd owners in the pastoral areas by
lower purchase prices.  Feeder cattle released from the holding ground in
197'; realized about Kshl.40 per kg liveweight, whereas prices paid in
cattle markets in the Northeast were of the order of KshO.90 per kg live-
weight. The indirect costs of combating the disease are thus very high.
The feasibility of less stringent test requirements should be examined in
an effort to minimize marketing costs and reduce the incentives for illegal
cattle movement.
16.       Trypanasomiasis is confined to the coastal strip and certain river
lands. Seasonal movement of cattle in such areas, coupled in some cases
with drug-induced trypanocidal protection, provides reasonably satisfactory
interim measures to tsetse fly clearance.
17.       East Cost Fever is the most important of the tick-borne fevers.
These are controllable by regular dipping, and increasing evidence now shows
that there is a substantial decline in calf mortality in all breeds follow-
ing such, treatment.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
18.       Beef measles (cystercicosis) is common, particularly in the
Southern areas of Kenya. The meat from such animals must be frozen for
10 days prior to use and infected carcases are subject to a price penalty
of about 25%.
.Nutrition
19.       In spite of serious disease problems, high death losses and low
herd productivity are mainly attributable to nutritional causes. Periodic
droughts and the consequent concentration of cattle on permanent water
points cause high mortality, while the low energy, protein and mineral
content of all rangelands, particularly in the dry season, limits the
productivity of both breeding and dry stock. Irproved dry season watering
facilities, better grazing movement, the stratification of breeding and
fattening areas, and where practical, the strategic supplementation of
grazing resources by protein and phosphorus supplements provide, in
association with disease control, the key husbandry practices required
to increase beef cattle numbers and offtake rates in Kenya. Intensive and
semi-intensive- fattening of immature and unfinished animals on improved
pastures in better areas and in feedlots is required to add weight to
range-bred cattle.
Agricultural Research
20.       Responsibility for agricultural research in Kenya is widely dis-
persed among various government departments, the East African Research Organ-
ization (EAFRO) and the University of Nairobi. Rangeland research is largely
limited to the survey work being carried out in association with an FAO/UNDP
project, while pasture improvement studies in the higher rainfall areas
are confined to small-scale work at Kitale. Research into veterinary
problems is more developed with Government, EAFRO and FA0/UNDP active in
this field. Research on ariimal production problems is mainly confined to
the fattening studies of FAO/UNDP at Lanet and the work of German and Dutch
bilateral aid groups on cattle breeding and intensive dairying respectively.
FAO/ULNDP are now commencing studies on sheep and goat production.
21.        Fields of study in which large returns for small expenditures
might be expected include:
a)   Incorporation of pasture legumes into rangelands;
b)   Optimal stocking rate and stock management systems for
the alternative production systeras of rangeland
farmers and cattle keepers;
c)   Simple rearing systems for young calves bred in feed-
deficit areas;
d)   The role of minimal strategic supplementation of minerals,
protein and energy in raising the productivity of breeding
stock during periods of nutritional stress; the supply
distribution and credit needs for these supplements also
require study.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Intensive Beef Cattle Feeding
22.       The optimal strategy for developing the beef cattle industry of
Kenya involves breeding immature cattle in the drier pastoral areas and
fattening these animals to heavier weights on .mproved grazing and/or
in feedlots. The present average weight of cattle being killed is around
130 kg carcase weight, and most animals killed are capable of considerable
improvement in weight and quality by further feeding. In the short term,
the addition of weight to these animals is the simplest and least expensive
means of increasing national beef production.    -
23.       Pasture improvement, particularly in the rangeland areas, is
virtuallv unexplored in Kenya. In the iligher rainfall areas where improved
pastures can be established there is little informatic,i available on grass
producticn and utilization, although it is estimated that stocking rates
could easily be doubled with the adoption of modern techniques. lHowever,
competition for land use and lack of modern techniques limit cattle
fattening.
24.       The price structure for cattle of varying weight and quality
reflects the present lack of adequate fAttening facilities and the resultant
shortage of well-finished stock. The weight and price for the main carcass
grades are given in Table 2.
25.        In 1970 the offtake of immature steers from the exporting districts
of Kenya's traditional farming areas was 297,000 head. A further 32,400
head came from Somalia and Ethiopia, giving a total "source" in Kenya of
some 329,700 head. (Meyn 1971). Of these, only 153,000 were sold and the
reiaaining 177,000 were slaughtered locally. These 153,000 head, 65,000
Boran and 88,000 smaller Zebus. are now available for poscible fattening.
In addition, the 177,000 immatures now consumed locally could be considered
as potentially available for purchase as feeder steers.
2 6.       The availability of high energy feed for cattle is determined
largely by the supply of maize.  The marketed production of maize, about
300,000 tons annually, represents only 25% of total production. The intro-
duction of hybrid maize varieties is greatly increasing crop yields, and
export surpluses in excess of 400,000 tons annually are now projected by the
Development Platn. Also about 15,000 tons per annum of maize bran and maize
germ meal are available from local maize milling.  As each animal fattened
consumes approximately 0.4 tons of hi6h energy feed, grain cnd grain by-
products are available to fatten over one million head of cattle, numbers
far in excess of the cattle available. The export parity price of maize ex-
farm in estimated at about Ksh17 per ba.;.
27.       Thc economic aspects of intensive beef feeding in Kenya have been
examined in considerable detail over the last four years by an FAO/UNDP
project near Nakuru. The promising results of this project have led co
recent private investment in feedlot capacity (presently estimated at 30,000
head per year). These private feedlots are located in the disease free



ANNEX I
Page 7
zone and are located so as to maximize financial returns. Further public
investment in strategically placed feedlots outside the disease free zone
is llOw required in order to maximize offtake rates from range areas, to
minimize disease control problems and to provide additional value-added
to cattle slaughtered. It is these feedlots that the proposed Second Live-
stock Project would support.
28.       In Kenya the killing out percentage of fattening cattle increases
by approximately one percentage unit for each 15-18 kg of liveweight gain.
Cattle weight and carcass grade are correlated; Boran cattle improve their
grade to fair average quality or better when liveweight reaches about
340 kg.
29.       Feed costs vary with the energy density of the ration and the
varying cost of ration components. The average and relatively constant
cost of a medium energy ration providing one kg of liveweight gain per day
is about 8.6 Kenyan cents per Megacalorie (approx. Ksh24 per 100 kg dry
nAurnAr) or Kshl.3 day Boran steer. Non-feed costts including yard, manage-
ment, interest and cattle losses add a furthet KshO.86 per animal per day.
30.        The conversion efficiency of feed to carcass gain is approximately
40 to 45 Megacalories per kg, depending on age and weight (approximately
7 kg drv matter per kg liveweight gain in the 250-350 kg weight range and
8:1 in heavier cattle). Investment and financial projections for a feedlot
fattening 6,400 head on an area of 500 ha is given in Annex 6, Table 14.
Silage would be grown on 160 ha each, and a second crop used only for grazing
would be grown in the short rains. Improved pastures would account for
300 ha, and with second crop grazing is estimated to provide for a live-
weight gain of 24 kg per animal purchased (450 kg/ha on pasture and 116 kg
on crop grazing). A further 40 ha would be in feedlots, roads, etc., (1,600
head yard capacity). Production coefficients and prices are summarized below:
Production Coefficients and Prices
Average Purchase Weight (kg)                               240
Average Price/kg (incl. freight) (Ksh)                     1.85
Average Price liead (Ksh)                                  45J
Liveweight Gain Grazing (kg)                               25  (60 days)
Liveweight into Feedlot (kg)                               265
Liveweight out of Feedlot (kg)                             340
Days on Feed                                                75
Dressing Percentage                                         51
Carcass wt Sold (kg)                                       175.6
KMC Price (Kah)                                            711
Conversion Ratio (kg D.M./kg gain)                         7:1 /1
/1   Excluding current bonus of 5% for feedlot cattle.
Jrne 26, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 1
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Cattle and Human Population and Cattle
Sales Classified by Farming Categories, 1970
Human           Cattle     Cattle
Farming Categor                      Population     Population    Sales
- - - - - - - - '000 head - 
Pastoralist                              868          3,180          91.5
Range subsistence                      2,959           2,020         62.h
Smuallholders                          5,807           3,150  )
L.arge farm settlement                   876             700  )      92.1
M4unicipal areas                         802              20  )
Imports of live cattle (Somalia
, Fthiopia)                                                        54
'rotals                               11,312           9,070        300
Sales to K1C                                                        191.3
March 27. 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 2
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KMC PriceE of the Main CarcaFs Grades by Years
Ksh
Grade          Weight            1970     1971                1972X/  1975 2/
Prime             -              3.85     4.50                 4.70    6.0
Choice            230            3.h1     4.25                  .45     5.7
FAQ               185            3.30     4.00                 4.20    5.5
Standard          145            2.75     2.95                 3.15     4.5
Commercial        100            2.40     2.60                 2.80    4.0
KMC estimated.
June 20, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
SEODND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'
WildlifLe
General
1.        The rapidly growing touris: industry of Kenya is largely based on
the abundance and diversity of the wildlife. Eight National Parks and four
County Council Game Reserves are one of the focal points of tourist activity;
these now produce an estimated Ksh53U rrmllion per annum.
2.        The movements and grazing patterns of the majority of the game
species are seasonal in nature; they move in and out of the game reserves
as water and grazing vary with irregular rainfall distribution. These
migratory movements bring the game population of the parks and reserves
into competition with livestock grazing in the areas to which the game
migrate. This competition, aggravated in recent years by increasing stock
numbers and overgrazing, has now been augmented by the rapid growth in land
adjudication and the establishment of group and company ranches in pastoral
range areas adjacent to the game parks.
3.        A certain degree of accommodation between wildlife and cattle
is apparent, however. Giraffe, elephant and eland graze or browse vegetation
components not utilized by cattle, whereas most of the plains game are directly
competitive. Competition can also be indirect; calving wildebeast are re-
garded as the source of Malignant Mucosal Catarrah and their grazing areas
are strictly avoided by pastoral herdsmen. Ratlos between the biomass of
cattle and game commonly approximate 70:30 in rangeland areas adjacent to
game parks. In open range areas where the availability of dry season water
limits cattle numbers, the construction of permanent water points usually
leads to an increase in both cattle and game numbers.
4.        The reaction of cattle owners tos wildlife on grazing land is
largely related to their impact on ca.tle numbers and to the cash income
received with or without wildlife. Quantitative data is scanty. It is
clear, however, that considerable economic benefits can result from game-
viewing, hunting and game cropping, and that in the game parks of Kenya,
the direct and indirect returns per unit area of land are substantially
higher than on similar land used for traditional pastoralism or ranching.
5.        The most immediate problem in the competition between cattle and
wildlife occurs in the wet and dry season dispersal areas of the Nairobi,
Amboseli and Masai Mara parks where land adjudication and ranch formation
is proceeding rapidly. If game in these new ranching areas are reduced,
the tourist income of the associated gamne parks could decline. The game
will be tolerated by local cattle owners, however, only if it represents



ANN'EX 2
Page 2
incDme to them.  la its si:1±lest form, this would involve compensation payable
from game park revenues for the loss of cattle production.  Additional incen-
tives might be adde7d by allowinig pastoral grou? to profit from the hunting,
viewing and cropping ri-hts.  The measurement of garie and livestock grazing
pressures should De the oasrs of cont-cl on scock and game numbers, and the
balanced control of overail stockiing pressure should provide the basis for
transfer payments between taie tourist ceriters and associared grazing land
owners.
6.         T we wildlife coiiroaent of che proposed Second Livescock Project
covers the gra..;a.  areas aasociated with the Nairobi, Ambosets. and Masai
Mara game reserves.  Its chree basic objectives wou1lc iaclude:
a)   Monitoring of livestock and wildlife distribution and numbers;
b)   Construction of alternative watering facilities for both
game and livestcck in areas where the closure of park
boundaries deprives them of traditional dry season water
and grazinlg;
c)   Compensatioin for the decrease in income from domestic
livestock experienced in those ranching areas where the
migratory mcvement of wildlife from game parks impedes
livestock production.
The Nairobi National Park
7.         In 197L tlie Nairobi Par, reported 140,000 visitors and gate
receipts of Ksh9C,000.  The area of the park itself is relatively small,
covering only about 144 kiv.  Studies by the Research D vision of the Game
Department and FAO/UNDP have slhowri that the 5bG,00r3 head of wildlife and
46,000 domrestic anitnals of tle Achi-Voniti aecosyste- all coicentrate in
the Park and the neighhorini Kitengaie area during the ory s;-ason.  These
disperse during the wet season, into al; area bordered'  n tl-: West by the
East Wall of the Rift Valley, ii the South by the railway line from Konza
to the Rift and in the Northeast by the railway from Konza to Athi River.   2
The area of the whole Naticnal Park ecosystem is thus approxinately 1,950 km
a)   Dry Season Concentration Area
Nairobi National Par,                             144 km2
Kitengele/Ololoti aoshu                           350 km2
Olchoro Onyore                                    186 km2
b)   Wet Season_i)is-;ersai Ares                     1,300 km2
S.        The land tenure ....atiozi in this ecosysterm i.s changing rapialy.
The OLolotieos...! area is nae. befng ad_iucicated for group ranching.  The
future of th.ce iitenge ,   :irea is present.1v being considered by Government;
the currenic pro,yosal is to ii        I .  it as a group ranch in the Ololotigoshu
complex.  k'itc)Cro Onvore is soon to b& a0ludicated.  Adjudication is also
well advanced in a large part of tnle wet seas,on dispersal area.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        The Project proposal for the development of the park and its
dispersal areas involves; (1) The seasonal monitoring of stock and game
distribution and numbers in the 1,950 km2 of the park ecosystem, and the
provision of maximum figures each year for each class of game rnd livestock
to be allowed; (2) The development by Government of the 350 km of the
Kitengele/Ololotigoshu group ranch complex into game viewing areas with
roads, trails, gates, housing and water points. In return for agreeing to
control cattle numbers and not molesting wildlife on these lands, the rancher
would receive 5a% of gate receipts as compensation for access to their land
(not Nairobi Park itself), or KshlO,000 per year, whichever is greater. The
Government and ranchers concerned have reached oral agreement on this phase
of the plan which would guarantee an income of Ksh5.6 per ha. This would be
in addition to income derived from domestic stock.
2
10.       The remaining 186 km  of the dry season concentration area, once
adjudicated and developed as a group ranch, would be included in the com-
pensation plans by the direct payment of approximately Ksh5,000 (from
Nairobl National Park receipts) to the group. This would provide compen-
sation at approximately the same rate as in the Kitengele complex. The
remaining 1,300 km2 of the wet season dispersal area does not create the
degree of competition between wildlife and domestic animals as the dry
season concentrations. Pending further investigation, no compensation
would be paid in this area.
The Amboseli National Park
11.       The Amboseli game reserves is one of the most intensely used game
reservee  in Kenya; in 1971 it had over 75,000 visitors and a gross revenue
of Ksh600,000. A plan to make this county's council reserve a national
park is now well advanced. Under this plan the park area would be reserved
for the exclusive use of wildlife, and some further provision would be made
for tourist viewing.
12.       The 200 km2 of the proposed park encompasses about 10% of the
Amboseli ecosystem and covers the traditional dry season grazing area; the
remaining 1,800 km2 constitutes the wet season dispersal area for both game
and cattle. The area supports some 2,300 Masai along with about 25,000
domestic animals and 14,000 head of wildlife. As the park has been the
additional dry season water and grazing area for both game and livestock,
the closing of the park boundaries to dry season cattle use would be
detrimental to the local Masai cattle owners.
13.       The proposed Project would provide compensation to the cattle
owner for the loss of dry season water; this would be made in the form of
a one-time expenditure of Kshl20,000 for a new water distribution system
outside the park area. As this investment would not compensate for the
loss of the dry season grazing by cattle within the park, or for the com-
petition between game and livestock on the adjudicated land outside the
park, compensation would have to be provided in a form and amount satis-
factory to the people who will own the land.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The Masai Mara Came Reserve
14.       At the present the Masai Mara Reserve excludes domestic livestock
from an area of 259 km2.2 In 1973, however, domestic stock will be excluded
from the entire 1,813 bm of the reserve. This will mean displacing some
600 Masai who are dry season residents on the reserve along with approximately
15,000 cattle and 40,000 sheep and goats. It wili also deny dry season
water to an undetermined number of livestock from the trans-Maro area who
traditionally cross part of the reserve to water during the dry season.
15.       The proposed Project would provide the construction and maintenance
costs of watering facilities in previously under-utilized dry season grazing
areas for the livestock displaced from the enlarged park area. The en-
larged park would contain a sufficient balance of dry and wet season
grazing for game, and little migratory movement outside the enlarged park
boundaries is expected. For this reason no compensatory payments would be
made in surrounding grazing lands for game protection. The park and its
surrounding grazing areas would, however, be subject to seasoaal monitoring
of both game and domestic stock numbers.
The Monitoring Program
16.       The monitoring program would cover about 255,000 km2 and include
the ecosystems of the Nairobi, Amboseli and Masai Mara parks. It would
also cover the area included in the Northeast water development component
of the First and Second Livestock Projects and all group and company ranch
areas.
17.       The program would collect information on the following items:
a)  Livestock and wildlife numbers in each ecosystems;
b)  Movement patterns in thei wet and dLy seasers;
c)  Changes in habitat and habitat conditions;
d) Local climate; and
e)  Extent of changes in local human population density and
agricultural and livestock husbandry practices.
The aerial census techniques to be used are well-established and
currently used in Kenya. Several surveys over a period of 3-5 years are
required to establish accurate base daca; thereafter an annual census will
suffice.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
18.       The proposed Project would provide funds for the establishment of
a Census Unit within the Research Division of the Game Department. Under
the overall guidance of the Project Manager, this unit would have responsi-
bility for the collection, analysis and dissemination of the data to be
collected from a combination of aerial and ground survevs aad from satellite
.r. cr} ; !ti rc earoh F       It woil]d a7-o be responFible for
changes required in stocking densities of both domestic stock and wildlife
as well as optimal means of accomplishing these changes.
19.       Proposed Project investments for the unit would include the
costs of:
a)   Senior scientists to establish the unit's program and
supporting technical staff;
b)   The in-country training of local Kenyan staff;
c)   Aerial and ground survey studies to cover about
255,000 km2 with several sample surveys in 3-5 years;
d)   The provision of support services involving climate
measurement gauges, office expenses, computor time and
film processing and reproduction.
20.       Detailed investment projections for the wildlife component are
given in Annex 6, Tables 23 to 26.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Marketing in Kenya
A. Introduction
1.        The rapidly growing world demand for beef provides Kenya, which
has about 9 million cattle and about 80% of its total area in rangeland
(180,000 square miles), with a unique opportunity to increase beef exports.
The main constraints to increased production include:
a) Difficulities in marketing cattle from the rangeland areas
due to inadequate marketing facilities and disease control
regulations involving costly vaccination and quarantine; and
b) Controlled beef prices leading to depressed prices to cattle
producers which in turn lead to depressed offtake rates and
overstocking.
2.        Kenya's beef production is stratified; cattle are bred on the
rangeland and moved for fattening to high potential grasslands or feed lots.
Cattle are moved on the existing stock route network from two surplus regions,
Northeast 1| and the South 2/ (Map). The Northeast is an underdeveloped
semi-arid region, with endemic Pleuropneumonia (2% incidence). Northeast
cattle are required to undergo stringent disease control 3/ procedures before
being moved and an average of four to five months elapse between purchase
and sale. All other provinces are without Pleuropneumonia, but FMD is
endemic outside the disease free zone. Veterinary regulations require that
cattle be vaccinated against strains "A", "O", "C" and "SAT II" before being
moved, and cattle cannot be moved from an FMD outbreak area.
3.        Pleuropneumonia controls impose severe constraints on the move-
ment of cattle by foot, but infected cattle may be moved by truck provided
they are intended for slaughter. Besides adequate disease controls, the
existing stock route/holding ground system lacks such basic facilities as
water and physical infrastructure. Cattle moved on these routes exhibit
a high mortality and live weight losses through lack of feed and water. Due
to the lack of water, cattle cannot be moved from the Northeast except
immediately after rain.
1/   Includes Carissa, Isiolo, Mandera, Marshait, Samburusand Wajir Istricts.
2/   Includes Baringo, Kajiado, Kitui, Lamu, Narok, South Nyanza, Tana River,
Turkana and West Pokot Districts.
3/   All reactors to the Plauropmeumonia test are slaughtered immediately.
All non-reactors must be vaccinated and retested eight weeks later; any
reactors are slaughtered immediately. Rest at six week intervals conti-
nues until the whole herd has passed through consecutive tests.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Thus disease controls, inadequate stock routelholding grounds, and
lack of regular markets are the three principal constraints to regular
movement of cattle from the producing to the consuming areas. The livestock
marketing component of the proposed Project aims at overcoming these con-
straints.
The Livestock Marketing Division (LMD)
5.        The Livestock Marketing Division (LMD) of the Ministry of Agri-
culture has a staff of about 500 and is responsible for ensuring that range
livestock producers are provided with market outlets which return rhe
highest possible prices.  Although 12413 has responsibility for developing
livestock marketing throughout Kenya, priority has been given to developing
facilities to serve the Northeast.
6.        1D1 purchased about 50,000 cattle 1/ in 1971/72 and expects to
purchase 55,000 cattle 2/ in 1972/73, Funds for cattle purchase come from
a Kenyan Government grant of KE1 millioni operated as a trading account.
In 1971/72 the expenditures under this account were KE753,000; the
estimate for 1972/73 is KE1 million.
7.        The majority of cattle purchased by LMD originate in the Northern
pastoral areas of Kenya. Purchases are made at auctions organized by LMD,
with LMD as the major (usually the only) buyer. During the past three years
the cattle purchased were 60%o imiatures and 40% slaughter stock, at an average
price of Ksh250 and average weight of about 250 kg. Purchased cattle are
then moved tc one of the LMD's two major holding ground complexes, Isiolo
or Bodhal/Bargoni.
S.        Movement is mainly on foot, but recently three cattle transport
trains 3/ financed under the first project have been used. Since the bulk
are still moved on foot, LMD's purchasing is heavily dependent on favorable
climatic and quarantine conditions. If water and grazing are available
along the stock route, the herds are broken into lots of 200 animals and
one lot per day is moved 15 to 20 miles. Experience with cattle trains has
been encouraging and LMD is emphasizing movement by lorry; this would reduce
dependence on rainfall and quarantines and would enable LMD to hold markets
at regular intervals. Although Kenya has a network of stock routes
(approximately 5,003 miles) and holding grounds (500,000 acres), facilities
at the existing holding grounds are inadequate and additional grounds are
required.
1 it purchased 15,000, 32,000, 29,000 cattle in 1968/69, 1969/70 and
1970/71 respectively. (Source: LMD records)
2/   By October 1972 it had pruchased 33,000 animals in that year.
3/   Tractor pulling two trailers (72 cattle/trip).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
B. Livestock Marketing Component
9.        The proposed livestock marketing component would provide the
necessary marketing infrastructure and services on a country-wide basis
and would enable LMD to move cattle from rearing to finislhing areas or
slauighter points. The component has three parts:
a) Development of markets and transport service;
b) Development of stock routes and holding grounds; and
c) Development of sheep and goat markets.
The Project would establish 5 large (503 head/day) and 26 small (200 head/day)
cattle markets and would provide 5 trains and 10 cattle trucks. 1/ It
would provide water points and physical structures on stock routes and
holding crounds, and would develop about 500,000 acres of additional hold-
ing grounds.  The Project would also establish markets for sheep and goats
in Turkana, Marsabit and Isiolo.
Markets
10.       The markets would be constructed on holding grounds and would
provide a sales yard, a loading ramp and a weighbridge. Five large
markets 2/ would be located in Lamnu, Garissa, Wajir, West Pokot, and Isiolo
Districts, and the twenty-six small markets 3/ would be located in Marsabit,
West Pokot, Kara Pokot, South Nyanza, Kajiado, Kitui and Machakos districts
(Map, IBRD 10311). Large markets would hold monthly sales and would have
a throughput of about 30,000 cattle/year. Small markets would hold sales
every two weeks and would have a throughput of about 135,000 cattle/year.
Cattle Transport
11.       The cattle transport fleet would include five cattle trains and
ten cattle trucks. The cattle trains would transport cattle trom the
Northeast and the cattle trucks would transport from Narok, Kajiado and
other districts in the South and East. After about four years the train
and truck fleets would have the capacity to transport 57,000 and 72,000
animals per year respectively (Table 1). With motorized transport cattle
may be moved from the Northeast during the dry season and on foot during
the wet season.  The number of cattle passing through the market/stock route
system are given in Table 2.
1/   Tractor with one trailer (36 animals/trip).
2/   At Bargoni, Carissa, Wajir, Kacheliba/Kong-elai and Garba Tula.
3/   At Marsabit, Kisaunet, Kasel, Migori, Macalders Mine, Unidentified,
Nakor, Ngorengore, Susva, Emarti, Kajido, Mile 46, Kitengela, Basil,
Namanga, Kuku, Mashuru, Emali, Atht Tiva (Kamutei), Kangondi, Mutiko,
Mwingi, Machakos, Kiangini, Koma Rock and Makueni.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
12.       The projected cattle offtake and the projected number passing
through the marketing system in the Northeast are given in Table 3. In-
cremental offtake fron the Northeast is estimated to reach 52,000 after
10 years, 30,000 of which are generated by the marketing system and 22,000
by grazing scheme developments.
13.       Projections for cattle offtake from the South are given in Table 4.
The incremental offtake from market and ranch developments is 43,000 by year
10, 10% of which may be attributed to market development. The number of
cattle moved by year five is estimated at about 58,000; the remaining 118,000
would move over stock routes on foot.
Stock Routes and Holding Grotnds
14.       The proposed Project would provide supplemental services where
facilities are lacking. Land clearing, 17 boreholes, 108 surface water points,
48 spray races/dips, 72 fenced cattle paddocks with crushes would be provided
on about 0.5 million acres of new holding grounds. Development details are
given in Table 5. It is expected that by Year 5 about 160,000 animals will be
moved through the stock route system; about 40,000 of these will be from the
Northeast.
Sheep and Goat Markets
15.       Sheep and goat markets would be established in Turkana, Marsabit
and Isiolo. Although a minor component of the Project, this is a first step
in providing outlets of small stock. 1/ Sheep and goats are mainly consumed
by producers in rural areas but it is desirable that urban consumption
of mutton be encouraged and dleveloped.
Costs
16.       The cost of the proposed livestock marketing component over a
three-year period is estimated at Ksh25 million (US$3.5 million).
(Details are given in Annex 6, Table 19.) The relatively high foreign
exchange cost, about US$!.', million, is due mainly to the purchase, operation
and maintenance (for one year) of the transport fleet and the development
of water points.
Technical Assistance
17.       The proposed Project provides technical assistance in the form of
a co-ordinator for organizing markets, one transport officer for the first
year, five maintenance supervisors for five years who will train local
counterparts, and one cost accountant to develop an accounting framework
which identifies the cost of each component of LMD's marketing operations.
1/   National flock estimated at five million sheep and five million goats
in 1972.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Benefits
18.       The livestock marketing component would:
a)  Increase livestock offtake through better market facilities;
b) Reduce mortality and weight losses in transporting animals; and
c) Regularise the flow of cattle to ranches and slaughter plants.
Estimates of the incremental cattle marketed from the Northeast and the South
are given in Tables 3 and 4. The benefits associated with transport, based
on a UNDP/FAO 1/ study and local experience, are summarized as follows:
Losses in Transporting Cattle
Northeast                  South
With      Without          With       Without
Project     Project         Project    Project
Trekking Cattle
Mortality Rate (%) /1          4           4               2           4
Weight Loss (%) /2             8          10               4           6
Trucking Cattle
Mortality Rate (X)             2           -               1           -
Weight Loss (%)                5           -                3          -
Price/kg Liveweight (Ksh)
On-range                       1.25       1.25              1.25       1.25
At Sale Point                  1.75       1.75             1.75        1.75
/1 Losses due to deaths en route.
7T Weight loss in transit.
19.       Benefits frow regularizing the flow of cattle, better utilization
of processing capacity etc., although important, are difficult to quantify
and therefore are not included in the rate of return calculations. The
estimated rate of return is 18% (Annex 10).
1/   Transport of cattle from North Kenya, Axelson G.R. UNDP/FA0 Nairobi.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Employment and Income Distribution Effects
20.       By year five the proposed livestock marketing component would create
additional employment for 900 unskilled and 150 skilled workers through the
operations o; the markets and stock routes. Of these, 200 unskilled and all
the skilled would be directly employed by the LMD; the remaining 700 unskilled
would be used as herders on the stock route system. The incremental offtake
from the pastoral areas will result in increased incomes for the producers.
In the Northeast alone it is estimated that an additional 30,000 animals
will be marketed by year 10. With a value of KL15.6/animal, this involves
an injection of an additional Ksh470,000 into the region.
Comparison of Cattle Trucking vs. Cattle Trekking.
21.       The objective is the development of an integrated cattle transport
system which would permit trekking as well as trucking. The relative
advantages of the two approaches depend on the specific routes; in the North-
east trucks have the advantage of permitting year round movement, thus facili-
tating regular markets and better overall utilization of range resources. In
the FAQ study cited above, Axelson has compared the two systems of transport.
Ile concluded that trekking should be used over short distances (less than 150
miles) when the stock route has adequate feed and water facilities and where
weight and mortality losses do not exceed 8%.
22.       The two modes of moving cattle from El Walk to Isiolo (330 miles) are
compared in Table 6 under the assumption that the same number of cattle are moved.
Transport by truck, however, is capital and foreign exchange intensive, with
high recurrent costs which in turn are foreign exchange intensive; when
shadow prices are used the economic rate of return is about 10%. This,
however, is a narrow basis for comparlson given the substantial inter-
relationships between Project components. Cattle trucking is considered
worthwhile since it permits cattle movement on a year round basis from the
Northeast.
Financial Impact of the Project
23.       LMD is at present operating at a loss; it incurred an estimated
loss of Ksh33,000 in 1971/72. Its main revenue is the margin between
sale and purchase price of cattle. In 1971/72 the average purchase and sale
prices were Ksh246 and Ksh267 per animal respectively. The margin was thus only
Ksh2i, and was substantially below the cost incurred per animal sold of Ksh53.
24.       In order to finance its cattle purchases, in 1970 the Government
of Kenya gave LMD a grant of KM1 million to operate a trading account.
LMD's inability to operate regular markets has forced it to buy cattle in
large numbers and to hold them for substantial periods of time (up to 9



ANNEX 3
Page 7
months); this has tied up its capital. In a normal commercial operation
the interest charges on the capital aloae would have been about Ksh5O,000
/year, over and above the Ksh83,000 loss incurred. Cumulatively, such
losses would be unbearable without subsidies from Government.
25.       The Project is expected to increase the number of cattle marketed.
The markets wc,uld be held regularly and as the result of the increased
transport capacity the average holding time for cattle would be less than
a month. In addition, the margin between sale and purchase price would be
increased from about KshO.20/kg liveweight to about KshO.50/kg live-
weight. Furthermore, a market charge of Ksh5/animal would be imposed.
The stock route/holding ground charge would be maintained at Ksh 20/animal.
A projection based on these prices and charges (Annex 6, Table 22) indicates
that LMD would make a profit in the first year, and would gradually increase
its surplus from KW111,000 in year I to over Kh200,000 by year 5.
Interest charges are not reflected in the projection. It is estimated that
the trading account of K1l million should be adequate to finance yearly
cattle purchase of up to 300,000 animals, 1/ and that LMD can cover interest
charges from its projected surpluses.  Regular operation of markets and a
steady flow of cattle through the system should enable LMD to operate as a
Financialy viable entity, and technical assistance is included in the Pro-
ject to ensure that these objectives can be realized.
26.       It is propcsed that LMD organize its operation under two sections:
one dealing with the marketing and transporting operations in the North-
east, and the second with the South. This specialization would be useful
in view of the special Droblems presented in the Northeast. The additional
staff required under the proposed Project are given in Annex 6, Table 22.
June 26, 1973
1/   300,000 animals/year is equivalent to about 25,000 animals/month or
about Kb4OO,OOO per lot.  If the average holding period is 2 months
then about Kh800,000 will be tied up during any one time interval.



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets and Transport Development
Capacity of the LMD Transport Fluet
Cattle Train Capacity                                     Cattle Truck Capacity
Maximum                                                           Maximum
Year                   Number of             Number tz           Cattle r!au jd             Number of           Number o           Cattle Hag}ed
Cattle Trains         Trips/Yeaf-               Per Yea@              Cattle Trucks       Trips/Yeah            Per Yea
0                         3                  300                   21,600                       0                  -                   -
1                         5                  500                   36,000                       7               1,400               50,400
2                         6                  600                   43,200                       8               1,600               57,600
3                         8                  800                   57,600                      10               2,000               72,000
4                         8                  800                    57,600                     10               2,000                72,000
5                         8                  800                   57,600                      10               2,000               72,000
6                         8                  800                   57,600                      10               2,000               72,000
7                         8                  800                   57,600                      10               2,000               72,000
a1    45,000 miles per year; average length of haul is 450 miles or 100 trips per year (2 trips per week).
a_2   72 cattle/trip/train.
,23    34,000 miles per year; average length of haul is 150 miles or 200 trips per year (4 trips per week).
Z4    36 cattle/trip/truck.
May 9, 1974



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNElT PROJECT
Cattle Passins ThrouRh the Market/Stock Route System
Cattle Passing         Cattle Ieing        Cettle Passing                                                            4
Year      7hrouxh_MarketinS       Transpor5d By    -hrough the Stock   Purchase CnstL2  Cattle SoldL;  Sales RevenuelljEkt                            hS-hSxsa          Stock Route Carao
System                                   Route System
A                     B                   C - A - B                            E-(0.93 X B)    G - 20.4 ILE
+(.88 x C)
-------------------------- -'000 head ----------,--------           ---------------------- ----------------------------.---------_ KU  '000 ..................................
1. NE Only
DI (15.I,6 x A)
1               54                     29                   25                1 842                49                1.000            14                  14                    25
2               60                     35                   25                  936                55                1.122            15                  15                    25
3               66                     46                   20                1,030                61                1,244            17                  17                    20
4                75                    46                   29                1,170                69                1,408             19                 19                    29
5               85                     46                   39                1,326                77                1.571            21                  21                    39
II   Rest of the SvEtea**
Di-(15.6 x Z)
1              129                     40                   89                  624                38                   775           32                  32                    89
2              141                     46                   95                  718                44                   898           35                  35                    95
3              151                     58                   93                  905                56                1.142            38                  38                    93
4              163                     58                  105                  905                56                1 142            41                  41                   105
3              176                     58                  118                  905                56                 1,142           44                  44                   11
lII,  NE plus Rest of the Svztem
D-DI + D2
1              183                     69                  114                1,466                87                1,775            46                  46                   114
2              201                     81                  120                1,654                99                2,020            50                  50                   120
3              217                    104                  113                1,935               117                 2.386            55                 55                   113
4              238                    104                  134                2,075               125                 2,550            60                 60                    134
5              261                    104                  157                2,231               133                 2,713            65                 65                    157
;I   By cattle trains from the N.E; and cattle truck from elsewhere.  80Z of maximum transporting capacity of UM  (see Tables 7, 8 and 9).
/2   At Koh 1.25/kg/1.w; Average weight is 250 kg liveweight or Kt  15.6/animal.  For the NE, the LMD is assumed to purchzse all cattle (i.e., 15.6 F A); for the rest LMD is
assumed to purchase only those cattle vhich it transports by truck (i.e., 15.6 x B).
/3 NE; Net of mortality - 2%/trip, and veight loss - 5Z per trip Lf transported by truck; with trekking, the two losses are about 4 and 8 percent respectively.
Rest;  mortality 17/trip; weight loss 3%/trip.
Source:  Transport of Cattle from Northern Kenya by Axelson   UNDP/FAO, Nairobi. October, 1971.
/4 At ISh 1.75/kg/l.w; average weight is 250 X .93 - 233 kg; or KB 20.4/animal.
/ At KSh 5/1niSml on animals passing through market (column A x.25) for cattle trains,
/6 At KSh 5/animal on animals passing through markets (column A x.25).
/7 At KSh 20/animal on animals passing through the stock route system (column C x 1 0)
*    Includes Garise, Isiolo, Manders, Marsabit, Samburu and Wsjir Districts.
*    Includes Barinlo, Kajindo, Kitui, Lemu, Narok, South Nyanga, Tana River, Turkana and West Pokot Districts.
April 3, 1973



K8ENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolection of Cattle Marketed - Northea.t Regionll/
('000 head)
._---  Without ProJect -------------------------------- 'c..'With Projec........................*-
HueAv                                           Additional             Additionst
Project               Cattle h           Offtake  &            Conaupti@o              Surplus In                 Off-take d'            Off-take dae           Incremental
Year               ropulatolA                                  Of Heat il               legion                    to Marketf.             to Water                Surplus
1.01..                                                               D0velopqmnfU
A                     8                      C                 0D6-C                           E                      r                    E4 f
197321      1                   1.609                    17                   124                    54
2                   1,646                   183                   126                    57                            1                     2                          1
3                   1,681                   18S                   129                    59                            4                      3
4                   1.722                   192                   131                    6'                            8                      6                        14
5                   1,762                   197                   134                    63                           13                      9                        22
6                   1,803                   202                   137                    65                           14                     13                        2.
7                   1,844                   207                   139                    68                           18                     15                        33
8                   1.887                   212                   142                     70                          22                     17                        38
9                   1.930                   218                   145                     73                          25                     19                        44
10                   1.974                   223                   148                     75                          30                     22                        52
11                   2,020                   228                   151                     77                          35                     24                        59
12                   2,067                   233                   154                     7'                          38                     27                        65
13                   2,114                   239                   157                    82                           40                     30                        70
14                   2,163                   244                   160                     84                          44                     35                        79
15                   2,213                   250                   163                     87                          47                     53                       100
16                   2,Z63                   256                   It0                     89                          50                     60                       110
17                   2,315                   262                   170                     92                          53                     66                       119
18                   2.369                   2,.y                  173                     95                          56                     72                       128
19                   2.423                   274                   177                     97                          60                     79                       139
20                   2,479                    280                  180                    100                          67                     64                       L51
L    For Carisa, lsiolo, Mandera, Mareabit, Seuburu, Wajtr Districts.
2   Assumea veaning rate of 502, adult mortality rate of 10% and tow culling rate of 5..  With thee eassumptions the herd grovw  at about 2.37  per annu.
/3   Projection based on known date for 19'1.
A    Ass-mes offtake rate io 11.1% in Year I and increases to 11.37  by Year 10 and stays at that level,  Based on projection made on assumptions Siven in footnote 2 above.
/    1973 population is sbout 430,000 persons; assumed to grow at 27% per annum.  Average meat consumption in Kenya is '5 kg/capita, but varies widely among regions.
In NE pastoral areas it is estimated by Peberdy (Report of Meat and Livestock Party) to be 35.6 kg/capita.  In Kajiado and Narok the per capita consumption is
about 26.7 kg/c.pita.  It is asru=,d that an animal weighs about 250 kg liveweight or 125 kg cold dressed weight.  So, per capita consumption is 36/125 - O.L85
head of cattle per annum.
/6   The project is two pronged:  (a) provision of markets and other infrastructure and (b) water development program  in the North East and lsiolo which is expected
to improve grating conditions for about 200,000 cattle.  This program is expected to impr,ve technical coefficients and chus lead to increase in off-take.  The
provision of markets and other infrastructure is expected to influence the off-take rate by providing a r-gular and systematic narketing network.
/7    Offtake rate is assumed to increse frcm  11.1 to 14% by year 20.
/8   Improved coefficients are:  weaning rate for 50% to 607, over five years, adult mortality race from 107. to 57, over f.ve years and cow culling rate from 5 to 10% over
five years.  This development affects only 200,000 animals; only the incremental effect is Included in this column (see Table 10).                                                        °' 
March 28, 1973                                                                                                                                                                                  W 



KESYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolection of Cattle Marketed -  Southern Region 1/
('000 head)
-----------------.---.----. -Without Project ------------------------- --                            W-ilth Proje*ct---- .... .-. --.
Project                Cattle  /2            Of ftake            Consup n                Surplus                   Off.takeLa               Additional               Surplus
Year                Population-                                  Of Neat-             in Region                                            Off-take
A                     B                      C                  D-8-C                        E                     F  E 5-                   G- F + D
I                     3,810                   533                 404                    129                       533                                                129
2                     3,898                   550                 413                    137                       554                          4                     141
3                     3,987                   566                 423                    143                       574                          8                     151
4                     4.079                   583                  433                    150                       596                        13                     163
5                     4.173                   601                 442                    159                       618                         17                     176
o                     4,269                  .619                 453                    166                       E,,,                        21                      187
7                     4,367                  638                  463                    175                       664                         26                     201
8                     4,467                   657                 '74                    183                       688                         31                     214
9                     4,570                   676                  485                   191                        713                        37                     228
10                     4,675                   696                  496                   200                        739                        43                     :;.
11                     4,783                   717                  507                   210                        765                        48                     258
12                     4,893                   734                  519                   215                        793                        59                     274
13                     5,005                   751                  531                   220                        821                        70                     290
14                     5.120                   768                  543                   225                        850                        82                      307
15                     5,238                   786                  555                   231                        880                        94                      325
16                     5,359                   804                  568                   236                        911                       107                      343
17                     5,482                   822                  581                    241                       943                       121                      362
18                     5,608                   841                  595                    246                       976                       135                      381
19                     5,737                   861                  608                   253                      1,021                       160                      413
20                     5,869                   880                  622                    258                     1,056                        176                     434
j/    For Baringe, Kajiado, Kitui, Lamu, Narok, South Nyanze, Tana River, Turkana, West Pokot Districts.
2/   Same as in footnote 2 in Table 7 with cow culling rate -t 8% per annum.  An average annual growth rate .f 2.3%.
3/   Assumes off-take will increase from 14 percent to 15 percent by Year 10 nnd stays at that level.
4/   Assumes average per capita consumption of 267kg or 0.214 cattle/caps ta assuming an average liveweight of 250 kg or a CfIW of 125 kg.  Population is assumed to grow at
2.3 X per annum and per capita consumption of meat is assumed to remain at 267kg per annum.  Assumed to be the same with and without Project.
5/   Due to markets, infrastructure and ranch developmert in Kajiado, Narok and els,where.  Assumes off-take to increa4e from  147, to 187. by year 20.                                            or
Of this additional off-take, about 107. is attributed to markets, stock routes/holding grounds, the rest is from ranch developments in the region.
March 29, 1973



AMEX  3
T.b.. 5
.1
- --- -      -       - -  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . . . . .  .,_ .  _......... .. .   _  .. ...   ..     
.eX ~  ~             ~             ~            ~            ~            --~
1 ~ ~          ~            ~            ~             ~            ~                                



2
.  eo r  ,< .,O  OO  oo  oo   ANNDt 3
00 _
_       _
0U  o0I ~                        4 '         4 4 4 40 4                                                        
oo                                                                                                     .0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..                                                                                                         0            
_              °.                                                                                        4         0   0 o. -. r 'D S1i  1Z00.  004a     C0...........   
-       ..    _ 5. *- S S4 a. 4.N^N>b_,        .......,  8°*.  
0    _.         .44                                                                                      4-        0 0                       *              a    4.- , 
z~~                                                                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a  a                               o  
_   0 *    0 __                                                                                                 0 s> -             84                                  f   4 
44_                  ,     *00=  _  000000000000.00                                                   o    ^ 0   0           -        0   4.            0         0   o .4l   
O Y              _ 44                                                       -                                                                                           o   . 
0                04                                                                                         0 _0                          4     o      .44 0£0gD       008      
,4x, _. . Y. '  _'   4-oo                       o    oo     o    o    o s                                        O                                                  B
F :. * Y . _ . _ . *; .,,, ^, 0                                                                                      0    O0
_    c                                                                                 u ~ ~~~~~             ~      ~~~~ 0. 40.   Z                 1
0 '                                                                                                                                                    0-   -  b    .  4  
'I                          4    44     44-4             44 4 4                                                     4.               a        0. 
-_ ' t e-¢eoe>>>>> = c f * ;                                                          , 
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-  I I -  ---~-------                                                           ¶ :  1 '0. *. ZC    Hv ,,



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Meat Processing in Kenya
General
1.        The meat processing industry of Kenya has three main segments:
a) Local butchers and individuals who slaughter for home
consumption;
b)  Licensed abattoirs owned by the District Councils;
c) The Kenya Meat Commission (KMC).
2.        The Kenya Ministry of Agriculture estimates that about 800,000
cattle and 2,700,000 sheep, goats and calves are slaughtered annually in
Kenya. Local butchers and slaughter for home consumption account for about
500,000 cattle and 2,500,000, goats and calves. Sixteen licensed abattoirs,
owned by local government authorities and inspected by the veterinary
department, slaughter for local consumption in the major and secondary
municipal areas. During 1972, 14 of these slaughtered an estimated 75,000
cattle and 80,000 sheep, goats and calves. The remaining two district-
licensed abattoirs at Ngong and Nakuru are assisted in their operations by
trained management personnel furnished by the Kenya Meat Commission. They
slaughtered about 16,000 cattle and 10,000 small stock in 1972.
3.        The Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) owns and operated the two largest
meat processing facilities, at Athi River and Mombasa, and is the most
important channel for marketing beef in Kenya. For this reason it is the
main vehicle by which Government carries out its meat pricing policies;
consumer, wholesale and retail prices for different grades of beef are fixed
by Government.
4.        The proposed Project would include a feasibility study which
would assess the benefits to be derived from locating small processing
plants in the main areas of livestock production, thereby limiting stock
movements. The study would review and make specific recommendation on
veterinary measures for disease control, market possibilities and a livestock
grading system. The study would determine:
(i) the number of plants needed;
(ii) the optimum locations to minimize costs of transport
and disease control and to maximize producer prices;
(iii) the production capacities;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(iv) the product mix; and
(v) the recommended ownership.
The Kenya Meat Commission
5.        The Kenya Meat Commission (KI.C), a parastatai body established in
1950, is governed by an appointed board of 11 commissioners; these were
chosen from various fields to ensure broad industry re?resentation.
6..       Parliament recentiy passed Tne Meat Control Act of 1972 which
transferred responsibility for Kenya's meat inspection from the Minister
of Health to the Veterinary Service under the Ministry of Agriculture. The
Ministry of Agriculture now has responsibility for up-grading and
standardizing the construction and operation of all slaughter facilities
where meat for human consumption is processed, as well as responsibility
for meat storage and transportation. By virtue of the Kenya Meat
Commission Act Section 7 (1) a, KMC is responsible for the licensing
of all processing facilities in Kenya for both export and local consumption.
7.        Under the sponsorship of Denmark and in cooperation with the
Government of Kenya, FAO established The Regional Meat Training Center for
English Speaking African Countries at Athi River in 1971. This Center is
using the KMC Athi River facilities in its present training program, but
a new building and. facilities under construction at Athi River are scheduled
for completion in 1973. The purpose of the Center is to train African
personnel engaged in the various sectors of the meat industry by providing
practical and technical instruction. Training is provided for meat
inspection, meat production, handling, hygiene and marketing.
S.        KMC's technical, financial and managerial operations are satis-
factory. These aspects were strengthened by a management agreement between the
Kenya Government and Swift and Company, USA. The agreement, implemented
in 1968 for a five-year period, provided a Managing Commissioner, Marketing
Manager and Production Manager for KMC, each with a Kenyan Counterpart.
9.        This agreement was replaced by a technical assistance contract
with Swift and Co. in 1972, whereby Swift provides a marketing advisor and
a plant operations advisor to assist KMC management. In addition, Swift
also has a marketing agreement with KMC to sell a minimum of 35% of its
canned corned beef output each year at the average of published prices to
wholesalers in the UK.
10.       KMC currently operates the two main processing plants in Kenya-
Athi River and Mombasa. Besides supplying meat for local consumption,
the Athi River plant processes frozen cuts, boneless beef, carcass beef,
hides, by-products, extract and canned corned beef for export. About 40%
(10,800 m ton) of the 27,000 m ton of meat consumed in Nairobi, Mombasa and



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Nakuru in 1971 was supplied by the KMC. Since the combined population of
these cities is about 900,000, the per capita consumption is in close
agreement with the estimate of about 66 lb/capita in the Livestock and
Meat Working Party Report of 1971.
11.       KMC slaughters about 120,000 sheep, goats and calves (1,500 m tons)
and 200,000 cattle (28,000 m tons) - an estimated 25% of all beef slaughtered
in Kenya (800,000 head). It is the mDst important marketing channel for
beef in Kenya. for the period Ncvember 1971 through October 1972, the KMC
sales were 53% export (10,000 m tons canned corn beef, 150 m tons extract,
2,500 m tons chilled and frozen beef, plus hide skins and by-products) and
47% local. The canned corned baf exports which accounted for 80% of the
foreign exchange generated by KMC were mainly to the UK; exports of chilled
frozen beef were to Libya, Hong Kong, Holland, Africa and Middle Eastern
countries. Recent trial shipments of chilled and frozen boneless cuts have
been made by air to Italy, Spain and Switzerland. The price realized from
Switzerland for boneless rumps, loins and fillets, was US$2,340/m ton fob
Nairobi. KMC's sales program for 1972 and 1973 includes the shipment of
2,600 m ton/year of boneless cuts to Switzerland and Tripoli by cargo plane.
12.       KMC is operating well above 1972 forecasts for both production
and profits, with the canned corned beef department being credited with
74.5% of all profits. Irrespective of this, the canned corned beef line
operated at only 60% of its capacity in 1972 and at 40% or less in previous
years because of seasonal shortages in the supply of the lower grades of
cattle. Depressed producer prices and extended quarantines for PMD and
Pleuropneumonia have been important imported factors in restricting supply.
13.       Until recently KMC did not have the financial resources to
modernize and improve the Athi River or Mombasa plants, although the
veterinary authorities of countries importing Kenya beef have required KMC
to make extensive improvements in facilities and equipment to maintain export
approval. After management changes in 1968, a steady financial improve-
ment took place and substantial profits were realized (Ki2387,000) in
1971 and again in 1972 (Kn636,200). 1/ As a consequence, in 1972 the
KMC began an extensive program of capital expenditures (Kh1,451,000,
Table 1) which will be phased over a four-year period and will bring the
plants at Athi River and Mombasa into full compliance with present inter-
national export standards. Approximately 50% of the total construction
and equipment changes were completed in 1972, and the balance should be
completed in 1973. A program of maintenance and replacements has been
scheduled through 1975. KMC proposes to finance Kh 701,000 internally
and Kh750,000 through commercial banks.
April 26, 1973
1/   January through September.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of KMC Present Investment
(K1;)
Local Costs    Foreign Costs    Total Costs
Athi River Pla  1                 742,918         286,000         1,028,918
Mombasa Plant                     180,000          192,000          372,000
Subtotal                        922,918         478,000         1,400,918
Other Capital Expenditure2         10,000          40,000            50,000
Total                           932,918         518,000         1,h50,918
Phasing of Investment    __
1971/72          1973/74          Total
Athi River                          366,000           662,918        1,028,918
Mombasa                             202,000           170,000          372,000
Other Capital Expenditure            50,000              -              50,000
Total                             618,00o          832,918         1,450,918
1/ The present increases in capacity currently in progress at the Athi
River and Mombasa plants will bring aboat the maximum increases that
are practical due to physical constraints. The Mombasa Plant is on
top of a hill near the sea and there is no land available for further
construction. Athi River is so constructed as to completely enclose
the main plant area with offices, freezer blocks, rendering, dry
storage buildings etc. Any expansion would require tearing down
of substantial existing structures that would have to be replaced.
2/ Tncludes purchase of equipment i.e., refrigerated trucks, power
equipment and water supply improvement.
March 28. 1973



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
Organization
1.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) is a statutory body
established under the Agricultural Credit Act of 1963, and reconstituted
under the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act (No. I of 1969). The
Corporation extends credit to farmers and others in an effort to assist in
the development of agriculture and agricultural industries. The AFC is
not subject to the Companies Act or the Banking Act.
2.        In June 1970, the AFC was transferred to the Office of the
President. The Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Ministry of
Agriculture are represented on the Board of Directors by the Permanent
Secretaries. The Board also consists of between four and six Ministerial
appointees (two or whom are required to have experience in banking or
finance) drawn from official and private sources.
3.        The Corporation's headquarters are located in Nairobi.  Most of
the work is carried out in the Head Office but the network of branch and
sub-branch offices provides broad coverage of Kenya's principal agricultural
districts. Although the majority of lending decisions are made at the Head
Office, the Corporation is in the process of implementing a strategy where-
by certain loan decisions could be made by branch managers. At present an
initial screening takes place in the field in two stages: the first stage
is the procedure by which extension staff assist farmers in filling out an
AFC loan application and the second stage is the screening and recommendations
made to Head Office by branch managers and extension officers. Accounts are
also kept in Nairobi; the accounting system is intended to provide branches
with such information as is required for the supervision and collection of
loans.
Management Structure and Staffing
4.        The General Manager is the chief executive officer of the Corpora-
tion, but he is not a member of the Board of Directors. He is appointed by
the Board, with the advice and consent of the Ministers concerned. The
incumbent, provided by USAID under bilateral assistance, has a two-year con-
tract which was extended to June 1973. The General manager will not be
available for reappointment at the expiration of the extended contract.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The Governmient in June, 1973 clhanged the senlor managemeat structure
of AFC (Chart).  An executive Chainran was appointed as Chief Executive
(tfficer. The Lxecutive Chair,nan is supported by a General Manager, the latter
post also filled by a Kenyan. These changes bring AFC into line with the
strUCture of other statutor, crrorartions and is consistent with the Govern-
ment's policy of Kevyanization.
6.         In order ru ito i emerin  Thy proposed l'roject, the Corporation
wil I need to exmand ind  i,ren-th n s staff within the Ranch Section.  New
positions requirea are: a counzorparF tor 'lead of Ranch Section, one area
ranch technical officer, 14 -.cid officors, 3 accountaats, 3 cierks, and
4 secretaries.  A replacement wiUl be needed for head of Ranch Section,
and USAID have already been approached.
7.        A training program is to be established for upgrading local staff
in order that potential opportunities for advancement and improvement
are realized for Kenian staff.  A trnirrig officer has recently been appointed
to plan and oversee the execution of rnese programs, together with a full-
scale review of AFC salaries, takin- into account conditions prevailing in
the commercial sector.
8.        AFC's record demonsrrates Zhat lack of a proper staff p.an tends to
lead to inadequate staffing arrangements which, in turn, impair the ability
of management to devote adequate time and effort to planning and control.
The difficulties encountered on the accounting side in producing timely
billings and information for management. purposes are a symptom of this
problem.
9.        AFC's problems were recognized within the provisions of the Second
Agricultural Credit Project, which inciuded a complete survey of credit and
credit procedures within Kenya. The results of this survey will more clearly
define the appropriate role for AFC vJs-a-vis other channels of agricultural
credit and should help it to dletermine its credit poIic-A s, to establih
operating procedures and to identify staffiTIg requirements.
Financial Resources
10.       Government provides the bulk -f AFC's resources.  As of March
31, 1971, over Ksh200 million (US$28 million) of the total assets of
Ksh232 million (US$33 million) were financed by Government funds. Capital
conIsists of "irredeemable" or ownership capital andl "redeemable" or long-
term debt capital. As of March 31, 1971, irredeemable capital amounted to
Kshl24 million (US$17.7 million), and redeemable capital to Ksh78 million
(USSll million); this includes proceeds of loans to Government from IDA
and other external sources which were on-lent to AFC mainly on 25-year terms.
Deposits are not a r,ajor source of funds for AFC; these amounted to
Ksh4.2 million (US$600,000) as of March 31, 1971.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Previous Results and Financial Position
11.       AFC has been operating in its present form since its reorganiza-
tion in 1969. Between March 31, 1969 and March 31, 1971 total agricultural
loans outstanding (net of provisions) increased from Kshl58 million to
Ksh200 million. (Large-scale farm development accounted for Ksh176 million
and small-scale development for Ksh24 million). Annual lending rose from
an estimated Ksh5.5 million during 1968/69 to Kshl5.5 million during 1970/71.
12.       AFC did not operate at a profit during that period, but succeeded
in cutting its loss from KshI.7 million for the year ending March 31, 1970
to Ksh1.1 million in the following year. These losses, plus the increase
in loans outstanding, have been financed largely through increases in
redeemable capital (i.e long-term debt), and by the liquidation of
investments (which consist of deposits with other public sector organizations).
The increase in long-term debt capital is entirely the result of loans
made available by Government from funds supplied by external sources such
as IDA and other bilateral donors.
Accounts
13.       Since 1970/71, AFC has increased its accounting capabilities by
the purchase of several new accounting machines. However, posting is still
delayed on many accounts, and this situation makes it difficult to determine
the arrears position and to take appropriate action against defaulters.
Billings are not made on time, and borrowers may, therefore, be encouraged
to postpone repayment. Much effort is being made towards overcoming these
problems, and it is hoped that the backlog will be eliminated during
1973/74. An advisor provided under bilateral assistance is working full
time on bringing the accounts up to date.
Future Financial Position (Tables 1-3)
14.       Projections show that AFC should move into a profit situation in
1976 and at the same time move into a reasonable cash position. Total
agricultural loans are expected to increase from Kshl92 million in 1971 to
Ksh658 million in 1976. These will be financed by funds provided by
Government and by the running down of the investment portfolio.
15.       The projections assume that the provision for doubtful debts will
be adequate to maintain approximately the relationship agzeed upon by AFC
and its auditors (2% of large scale loans and 30% of small scale loans).
Loans will not be written off until all hope of recovery is abandoned. With
the increased emphasis on accounting and control both within AFC and from
the proposed Project, the Corporation will be in a position to analyze by
age Its arrears and prepare projected cash flows on a regular basis and it
may also he possible to introduce a less arbitrary provision policy.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
16.       AFC's cost of funds approximates 4% on a blended basis.  It is ex-
pected that the credit survey (para. 10) will help to deternmine the levels
of on-lending rates.
I ' 1



KENYA
SEOCCUD LrV-lSTCCK DEVETCflNT PROJECT
AFC Financial Statements - Cash Flow
1971        1972         1973         1974        1975         1976
Net Income (Ioss)                                       (C.9)        (1.3)        (1.1)        (1-3)        (0.35)       4.23
Plus:  Deyreciation                                     o.4          o.4          o.4          o.4          0.5         c.5
;rovislon for Doubtful Debts                     2.4          2.5          2.7          4.3          5.t         6.2
Am.ounts l:ritten-Off                             -            -            -            -            -           -
Less:  Uncollected Interest 'Receivable                  2.1          2.C          2.4          2.9          3.3         3.7
Uncollectea Agency Commissions                   0.5          0.6          0.9           -            -           -
rrofit on Sale of Assets                         0.3           -
Fbnds Generated (Consumed) by OFerations                (1.0)        (1.C)        (.13)         0.5          2.65        7.23
Cther 3ources of Funds
Liquidation c: Investb.ents                       5.E                       6.4           -          10.7        10.3
Disposal of livestock anl Properties              1.3           --                                      -          -
Tncrease in Capital Funds                         o.6                        _-                                    -
Increase in Releerable Capital                   13.2         2f.5         50.E         53.2        106.9       129.3
Increase in Denosit Liabilities                    -           0.9           -           1.0                       _
Increase in Othsr Liabilities                     0.3          1.4           -           9.6          3.7         3.e
DecreaEe in Other Assets                           -            _                        0.3           -           -
Smub-total                               21.4        30.E         57.2          64.1       121.3       143.4
Total Fun.ds Available                   20.4        29.C         55.9          64.6       123.9       150.6
Uses of Funds
Increase in Total Loans - Nlet                      22.9         49.2         52.1         70.0        11±5.9      141.9
Plus: Increase in Frovision                        2.3          2.6          2.7          4.3          C.E         6.3
Less: Uncollected Interest Receivable              2.1          2.0          2.4          2.9          3.3          3.7
Increase in Loans Unissued                   7.6         24.6          2.4         10.9         26.7        10.
Funds Loaned                                15.5         25.2         50.0         60.5        119.7      ].41.1
Fixed Asset axTenditure (?;et)                           0.9          o.6          o.7          O.P          n.s            .0
Incre.se in Investmients                                  -           4.5           -           1.9           -           -
AcouiEition of Livestockc and Properties (tNet)           -            -            -            -            -           -
Decrease ir. D7rczit Liabilities                         4.1           _           1.0           -            -           _
lecrease in rther liabilities                             -            -           3.7           -            -           -
ITrcrease In cther .tcsets                                -          0.1           1.4           -            -         0.2
Total Funds Used                             20.5         30.4         56.o         63.2        12C.6       112.3
Chrrpe in Cash and Bank Balances                                     L.,(0.1)                   1.14         3.3      _.3
lctual Cash in ':and and at Bank (at end of reriod)   6.9            6.3          5.4           6.C       107.1        16.4
may 6, 1973



:73C(') LT--ocx CM C ,7Ifl1T raoIJ!CT
IfiC UThantiaj C.-tater,ents - Irncome Statement
Ko3h J illion
Actual                                      Fro *l ectel
3/31/7]        3/31/72       3/31/73        3/3i/Th4      .3/.31/7 7      5/31/(6
Tntere-;t 'eceiv..ble                     13.13         '4.23          17.1V          22.1          31.27          39.77
ACenc-   Coyrr.issicr- neceivThle          .NC           1.10          0.74           0,50          G.In
Cther Crearrtirn  Mhcorze                  1.0G           ;.2C          1.24           1.28           1.32          1.36
rroLit on Zle of Assets                   t.32           cx4           O.M           0.04           C0.04          0.c4
lpi Debte Recovered                                       C.01          G.C1          C.01            0.01          0.01
Grosc tncoire                     1.6.5f                         19.21         23.93           41.16 4:  1e
Tnterest 7p- i                             7.C6           f.29          9.43         10.96          13.1:          Iff .
Ctr CP n  Tho-rA 7-x-ensea                 4.66          (6. e         (7.Uc          9.5           13.G           14.4
";Ec^'aneous nyerntir.l lf,enEss   1.05   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~~(  (  (       ((
Se- reciz' t .on                           C.&4,          C.36          C .4          C.44            0.4V          0.52
-rcvi cr for Dou'tt    J3bts             2.5            2.146         2.72          4.34            5e.t3         6.23
,Arounts ';ritten o f 
Gross 2x;er.3e.                     16.39          17.91          2C.35        2.24            33.S           3695
I'et Tcorne (Ioss)                   (C. F)        (1.33)         (1.14)        (1 .31)        (0-35)          4.23
]/  interest  nte on new ).o:ns calculated zt 8, Iper annum                                                                   o 
2/  r,t. funds will be on-lexnt to A7C at a rate of 3% rer annum.
May 8, 1973



Kti;YA                                            TabIU    5
SECGND LIVESTOCK DWVE1CFI7T TFCJECT
Avr jinancial Dtaterents - ti-bilities and Assets
in Ksh MKillion
Actual                            to~ce
IA'12ITIZ3                                7,731/71       /72        3/31/73 3F/'ec/74         3/31/75      3/31/76
Cptpit-I Fun,ls (IrredeevAble)            124.1       1L24.C        124.F        124.V        124.e       12.?hE
C-enerpl Reserve                            5.9          4.6          3.5          2.2          1.e          6.0
_ub-total                             130.7        129.4       12E.3        127.0        126.6        130.f
Redeer.abi,e Carital                       7E.7        107.2        15E.0        211.2       31F.1        447.4
Derosit Liabilities                         4.2          5.1          4.1          5.1          5.1          5.1
loans UTissued                             13.7         3E.3         4G.7         51.6         C0.3        90.7
Other Current TAia1iities                   C.2          6.6          2.9         12.3         15.9        19.5
Sub-total                              23.2         '0.0        47.7         69.0        101.3        115.3
Tctal Liabilities                     232.5        2E6.6       334.C        47.2         Si6.0        693.5
Agricultural lToans
La r i 0 yte    S ral euV.              154.7        194.3       235.4        2E9.7        416.9        54E.9
Arrears                                 24.0         28.7        33.E         42.9         55.7         6F.6
Less: Frcrision                         (4.9)        (5.0)        (5.Lu        (h-3)        Ce.?2)     (..1
Sub-tota3                            173.E       21e.0        263.F        326.3        464.4        607.4
Ni-ot Yet ,ue                            1°.8         2~,.,        ,2.1        41 .1         56.7 5t.-1
Arrears                                   4.f          6.0          G.6        10.5         12.6         14.9
less: provisior.                         (6.1)        (.6)        (1-.9)      (1h.3:       (18.2)       (22.6)
Sub-totil                             10.5         23.'        29.C         37.3         45.1         51.0
Total 4gricultural lomr-             192.3        2L1.        293.6        363.6         509.5       658.4
Tnvestrents                              23.6         21.1         21.7         23.6        12.9          2.6
-ro  nd  rk t'2 noes                      6.0          A.I          C.IJ         I.f        I.1          if_.h
Total "'In.1 I  rrefs                  277.p        2i5.9        320.7       394.0        532.5        679.-
'Fixel As:sets (Net)                      5.0          6.1          6.l          6.F          7.?          7.P
Farr Frcyerties and livestock             C.L          r..2         C.2          (.2         C.2          C.2
*gencies CoTmission Fees                  1.9          2.5          3.4         2.9          2.0          2.A
Other Asset.                              1.6          1.9          3.3          3.3          3.3          3.3
Total Assets                        232.5        206.6       334X0        4e7.2        546.C        693.5
3/31/71       Jrc4ections rs le by .3. Caq bell   I. ?ii-EeEard,  Rxtrapolation
:'Cu-cet                                  audited       Sd!iLcrS to the lninistries of Finance a-a           fror Cainycell
3taterment    A(1ricu.+ure, re-ective(y, in ccrm.ultation         Pirgeegard
vith , AFC. rnanieeret.
May 8, 1973



ANDIE 6
S1U13 LIVISTOCK DEvg1=i4D PUOJRCT
Nerd Levelorment ProJeetion
Groop Hnoahes
)b,da1 - Oroop Ranch -16,01th&
Pre. Dev.       1         2          3        _            5          6         7-20
IIER CtrPOSlSIaSm
Beeding Cove            1,132         1,377     1,6714     1,801      1,801      1,801       1,801      ;,8b0
OL11e                      57            69        81         90         90          90         90         90
Woo   t                   510           623       69S      1,088       1,171      1,171      1,i'i      1.171
9-2Zlonth Hei!fro         243           242       299        429        522         562        562        562
9-24 Yonth Steers         243           242       299        429        522         562        562        562
24-36 tontb Heifers       231           23i       116          0          0           0          0          0
21-36 Month Steers        231           231       233        287       1412        502         540        540
36-48 Month Steers        220           110         0          0          0           0          0          0
h3-60 Mouth Steers        loll            0         0          0          0                                 0 
Total Thbero            2,L61         2,501     2,705      3,r37      3,349       3,517      3,555      3,555
(Total lnimals)         2,971         3,124     3,599      4,126     14.519      4,68B      4,726       1,726
Sub-Total A.U.          2,461         2,5X1     2,705      3,037      3,349      3,517       3,555      3,555
Purchased Steers            0           165       295        163        206          38          0          0
Total Animal Units      2       .461  2660 §_   3. 97     1.2tY       1-CCN       3,555     3.555       3-555
MRDTAIJU
reedirg Cows               57            57        55         67         72          72         72         72
Bulle                       3             3         3          3          4          4          4           4
sn rer                      0            26        25         36         44         47          47         47
9-24 Monut Heifers         12            12        10         12         17          21         22         22
9-24 Xonth Steer.          12            12        10         i2         17          21         22         22
24-36 Mouth Heifers        12            12         9          5          0           0          0          0
24-36 1ntb Steer.          12            12         9          9         11          16         20         22
36-L.8 Honth Hefer.        12             0         0          0          0           0          0          0
36-48 Month Suee           11            11         4          0          °           0          0          0
48-60 PYnth Steers          5             5         0          0          0           0          0          0
Sab-Total                 136           150       125        14L        165        181         187        189
urtatebtl Zteers            O             C)        7         12          7           a          2          0
Total                     136           150       132        156        172        189         189        189
PuRCHASES
Breeding Age Heifers        -           200       200         53          0          0           0          0
ulls                      -              36        31         18         12         12          12         12
Sub-Total                   -           236       231         71         12         12          12         12
Steers                      -           165       295        163        206          38          0          0
Total                       _           Lol       526        234         218                                2 12  1
SALES
Bulls                       5            22        13          8          9           9          9          9
24-36 Month Heifers         0             0         0          0         12         1h          52         52
36-12 Month Steers        105           110       222        223        275         396        L81        518
48-60 Mouth Steers         99           209       105          0          0           0          0          0
60-72 month Steers          0            99         0          0          0           0          0          0
Fattening Cull FEJ        108           118       185        257        329         115        415        1.15
&ub-Total                 317           55s       525        L88        625         834        95t        994
PurchaEtd Steers            0             0       158        28h        156         198         37          0
Total                     317           558       683        772        781       1.032      .21L         994
tgCHNICAL COEFFICDNTS
weaning Rate S          50.00         55.oo     65.00      65.00      65.00       65.00      65.00      65.00
Adult Mortality S        5.00          5.00      1.00       4.00       4.DO        4.oo       1.00       1.00
Btraction Rate %        12.88         22.29     19.42      16.08      :8.30       23.30      25.16      26.49
Tot. Output Fate %      12.88         22.29     19.42      16.08       18.64      23.71      26.94      27.96
Cove/Total Hord S       38.10         44.07     46.52      43.66      39.86       38-.3      38.12      3b.12
akuL/cow PRtio 9         5.00          5.00      5.00       5.00       5.00        5.00       5.00       5.00
Cov Culling Rate U       9.00         11.00     14.00      16.00      19.00       24.0u      21.00      24.00
Pull  Co)Ing pit. S      8.0o         4.0.00    20.00      10.00      10.00      10.00       10.00      10.00
Stocking Rate Hk/A.U.   6.50           6.00      5.33       5.o0       4.Eo       4.50        1.50       L.50
Stocking  Rate A.U./HA   0.15          0.17      0.19       0.20       0.22        0.22       0.22       0.22
Carying Cap. A.U.       2,161         2,666     3,000      3,200      3,555       3,555      3,555      3,555
PhrCh, 1973



Al
KEN1YA
SECOND LTVESTOCK DEVrL0PMENT PROJkCT
Model - Group Ranch - 16,000 ha
Investment Costs
KVh I0Wu
Units      Unit Cost        Year       Year        Year        Total       Fore:
_________        1           2           3         Cost        Exchi
InveFtment Catevory
Water Lacilitie F
Bore/'Gam                     2            60.U          LO.o          0.0         0.0      120.05(
Tank 20,000 -al-               t            22.0          -           22.0       -           22.0          2(
Tank l0,00);  galr             2            11.0          -          11.0        11.0        22.0          2(
Piping                         7 Ia         12.0          -          02.0        02.0        8L.0          6
I'wirp,                        1             6.0          -            6.o       -            6.0          9(
Trowr                         Zo10           3.0                     lS.e.C      1.          30.0          2(
Sub-Total                                          0(0.0      136.0       108.0       280.0
Cattle Yardv and Dips          3            20.0          20.0       20.0        20.0        6c.o          2C
Bui ldinr
Officert-,re                   3             L.0           0.0         L.0        0.          12.0         2(
HouEinr                                     :0.0         2?H.0       lc.o        1(u.0       LO.0          2C
Sub-Total                                          20.0        1l.0        110.0       52.0
tExtf,r"nl. -'ehic:Pee
Tract.r and trailer            '            30.0          -          30.0        -           30.0          9C
Motorcycle                     1             7.0           7.0        -           -            7.0         9C
Toola (set)                    1            10.0           N.G         5.0       -           10.0          kC
Sub-Total                                          12.Ce       IL.'        -           07.0
F rebreakr and Roada        1(el km           .2L         10.0       10.0         11.0       2L.0          20
Feedin, Rtock2 162.6                                               157.7        63.8       360.1           0
Incremental    21
*r,orking capita -                                       90-.        60.7 _]                               25
Total                                         363.0       437.4       209.8     1,"lG.2
1 / Fnr numbert see Annex 6, Table 1
2_  Working capital is defined aE 100  of steer purchase and 5C% of operating costs.
For steer purchase and operating costs, see Annex 6 Table 3.
Tear              Year
1                  2
lIO"  Steer Purchase            65.9              116.1
5v% Operating costs             37.9               50.0
103l.              T6W.
Lers prederelopment
ibrking  Capital                 9.4                9.L
9L0.              159.1
Incremental working capital   90.4                 60.7
March, 1973



ICAOSA
SE620KD 4140010CR DEvLoPM7rT  90.790T
5aRe  an  .Ss aCnttEsDnrc P_roIectlCfls
3.IWO              13.605              S. 90               5.400              6,053             6.404              6.917              6.917
0,4.7,92                         .46,700            66.18V             96.,77            131.992            176.177            227,754            235,184            243,946
SAIE, 'F SURP410
;4l el.e  1.-lb                          0                   0                 0                   0              7,012             8,655             31.473             31,473
iCetr, 96-480                       13,W53              594              128,537             142,885            192,791           277,070            337,015            362.571
St,tr.,    489-60                   49,4(,91          13 ,50              68,46N                   0                  0                  0                  0                  O
S.rc.,. 6V'                              0                   (2                 3                                     0                 0                  0                  0
PN-r.h-,d St,,...                        D         0                      94,S62             170,130            93,725            118,923             21.905                   0
5u6-9o7al                       7200,900           194,004            291.867             313,015           293,530            404,648            390,393            394.044
,I,ta2  SsI,,                   MIM.100            260_18.                                                  46970760 _632,42                      6.5 577            637,990
11 AI 0IN': COOTq
FlXCO *-S75
Salarln.                               0              6 .200            10,400              40,400            40.400             40,400             40,400             40,400
9.,r  7{ S0'~ h  x              O0              6 ,000           12,000              14,000             14 ,030            14,000             14.000             14,000
0              7,0(10            13.000              18,000            18,000             18.000             18.000             13,000
R pla rr0n0                                               0                  0                 0             60,000                  0
0e72a,emcnl                            0                   0                                 2,000              Z,O00              2,000             2,000                2000
0             19,700             37,400             74.400             74.400             74,400            134,400             74,400
'7 A I A.t I EC-OtSTS
D02,5)             26,6bO             30,000              32,000             35,550            35,550             35.550             35,550
DpS      2'ne                      4,92              7 13,330           15.000              16,000             J7,775             17,775             17,775             17,775
1, 3nl l2 50 0 0                      16 .OOO            177.775            17,775             17,775             17.775
Oel21,,9 ExlBr                     1,58S 2.5           2.772              3.416              3.360              3,903              5.161              4.970              4.970
20 I,8I2             . _6LV7          63,415              67)                75t003             76_261            j6.070              76,070
c.,er  0..rc0b4s                 3)            65,876            118,146              65,087            107,084             39,710             2-,458            24,498
2o.rl l sr.n.              1:             j'.1,6<           ?2lil,'6            27  !0.56. 87                         190L,JI ._4 .96                       i74.96tl
1522040                            IJ9.   f8 IE,504                       16).683             39.16             213220              42,0              390.609            463 073
;/  Dippinr  tos" hav- b,cn exLiluattd  t  7K.h 10 p.r ,
2/t ';a.lnc, costs havr b- e t tiffi(td St Fth 5 per             -i,7r2 utit.
2   !.t7rilo4 aIr no.2  h.,, bern e- tlki.td at KFr  S per aniuw.l unIt,
I/  ocIlIg ten   ,,, .re     5 t.h 5 p- L-r7d.



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Group Ranch - 16.000 ha
Incremental Cash Flow
bsh '000
Year                     1          2           3          4           5           6           7           8            9          10            11
Source of Funds
Sales                           102.1      230.5       288.9       311.6       474.3      467.5       479.9       479.9       479.9       479.9          479.9
Long-term loans                290.4       349.9       167.8         -          -           -            -          -           -           -
Ranciers' I:ivestmentVl         72.6       87.5        42.0         -   -                  -                       -                       -
Total Sources              465.1       667.9       498.7       311.6      474.3       467.5       479.9       479-9       479.9     479.9           479.9
Use of Funds
Operating Costs                 122.8      200.1       188.4       237.6       171.5       216.1       156.1      156.1       156.1       156.1        156.1
Fixed Investment                106.0      215.0       146.0               -          -                  -           -           -          -            -
Breeding Stoc",                 162.6       157.7       63.8         -          -           -            -           -           _           _           -
Loan Interest -                  23.2       51.2        64.6         -                      -            -                -           -                  -
Loan AnnuityV'                                                     155.2       155.2      155.2       155.2       155.2       155.2       155.2          _
Total Uses                 414.6       624.0       462.8       392.8       326.7      371.3       311.3       311.3       311.3       311.3        156.1
Annual Cash Surplus/
(deficit)-           50.5       43.9        25.9      (81.2)       147.6      96.2        168.6       168.6       168.6       lb8.6        323.6
Cumulative Cash Surplus/
(deficit)                50.5        94.4      120.3       39.1        186.7      282.9        451.5       620.1       788.7       957.3      1,281.1
1/  Sein3 20! of investment cost Annex 6, Table 2.
2/ Interest at 8/o per annam on outstanding balance of loani.
3/ Annuity for 7 years at 87. after 3 years.
4/  Group ranches will also have pre-development profits of Ksh 139,000 available for distribution
to members.
April 4. 1973



0  OOCO'400000 CC                            -  -                     -.3  -   40                   . -
4  0                        00.4   4 -
oooo.o                 0o0000'00000   o        0'. '*o  0     4.40
I                      C
.3 044 4     600
040                                                                      044CC  00 0
00       .......C0000000   C     0  Moo
CC4*4000000 0,4          -       -
4 044 4      000   0                      -                         '.4   0 C                     .0
:1
03C04'OOOCO  0400  0      040 3'C04.0 0000   4 2                    00     CO C         'c-' "' 00.
4440404     00.  -              -        -  -                          0 --
- -          04    .                                                                   044'.CO 0000
0 4.4 '44404000 0040  -   4.004000 COCOCO   0 C    0o  .4.  C     C-'."' 004 0-       0OOOOOgO 0
040CC  0     004- 3                           .4        -  -       04'4               o6 4400 00..';
31  4 044 4      CCC- C                       -  -
04.44000000004000         C00'00000 000400         CC 000         40-4000 CO 0                     0
CI  4 044.4      4440                        .4'.          0  0        4  C 0" 044444 -  4.0  -  -  -  -  0  C  C.044044-
.440000C000  CO 0.4 0      04400.400 oo 4.4       0 00.'C40  CO 044440               00,4.,400000..O
0     OCCO  9      C0...         "'44           4  0        0  C 04 0         00CC000Q0,0
01  0 0.3'! 0    4,440                        -  -          '4  0       0  0 .4.4 0
44   =000,404.000 044    9     .,0044C000000 0 0    00 4444  .4    4 0000.3 4'40         00.4.440000440
...4000 4    COCO                         '44           0  -         C  .4.444 0      00 CCOCOC4444 0
0                0.40C             o      .404.4          0                .              004        00CC
000000 "C    V       ,.00'40000000  00 0    o4 000           .40.000  '..' 4    004400000440
Cl      0        0.404                                                        00. 4.
0444.4.400000-C-C  0     4004. COCCOOCO  444 4   00 CC  .4   .40.4004, 4.,. .4       040.4040
4                o          .4 0             CoO          ..  4       -  C 4'4 0       304C4.4400'4Z
CCC 400C0000C000          C03.,4COCCCOCO  443. -   00 04.  0      400000  -0 0
44044.4.4 -  00           4 -              0  C         4  4         0  0 00 0
Of  - 4440 .4   0.4
000000.4000 00            0.0,4A.,.404.000  0     04' C   0      .400004' 0.4 0      00..4O00040
04C0,44.4    00           0 -                      0. . 4           4.'   '.4 .4
4.4CCC0'.OCO  4C        .4.4-44,4.4400.4"'. 00 44  00 0.4  .   .4CC
04            0-0    44
3   0.'0                       C".OC.t,4.444 ,4,4-0,'4,4    04 40   4  400000,40,4
4.  00C"CC.                4.              44  0                      04. 4 4  0       44'444444441
<4                ''J                                                                      OCOO.4,400"'0
.44                     00
.Cff,4t                                                               44              0..C00
4044.4440            4.444.  .4.4                                            0      3                4
44440               4.3,44.4400                          .4j 0.40            C 40444
*043



ANNZ= 6
KENYA                                                 fableb6
SECOt_D LIV.bTOCK DEVY10!?MrNT PROJEC?
Model - Cornpary Ranch - 28,0(X) ha
Investmenst Co--ts
_   .   .   .   . k .
K sh ' 000
Year        Year        Year        Total       Foreign
UnitF       Unit Cot-t        1           2           3          Cost        kbcchange %
Investment Category
'tater Facilities
BoreZDam si                   2             60.)          140.(        40.0       j40.')      120.0          50
Tank, 20,luoo  ga.e            I            22.0          -            22.0        -           22.G          20
Tank, 1t0,0Xj) ,7ate           2            i 1 .J        -            11.0        11.0        22.0           20
tiping                        It) m         12.0          -           6o.o         60.o       120j.0         6U
Pump                           1             6.0          -             6.o        -           6.0            90
Trou:!hF                      ii             3.'0         -           lS.u         15.0        30.0           20
Sub-total                                            140.0      154.J       126.0        320.0
Catt'e Yards ani Dip.-         2            20.0          211.D        20.0        -           40.0          20
Riilrlin'
ffi e7.'tore                 3              4.0           4(.0        4.0          14.0       12.0          20
Houring                       b             10.0          20.0         10.0        10.0       140.0           20
Sub-total                                            21.0        1 4.0      l14.0        52.0
.3uippnent fnd flic+z-
Tract.r   i trajier                         30.0          -           30.0         -           30-0          90
Mo t. rc rvc ie                1             7.o           7.0        -            -            7.0          90
Too r- (ret)                                 ]00           5.0          5.0        -           10.0          40
f,6b - toStz                                         12.0        35.0        -             47 .0
Fjr',!reak and -joadr      i0k, km           .2!         l0.0        10.0          4.0        24.0J         20
9reedin.t rt ckW'                                        ,61.1      134.2         -          718.3           0
Tncremen ta 
.. orkin" Capit.ai"                                      121.2        21.6       31b.0        L460.b         25
Total                                           bll.3       38b.b       b62.0    1,662.1
A/J For numbers see Annex 6, Table S
2/  Working capital is defined as 100% of eteer purchase and 50% of operating costs.
For steer purchase and operating costs see Annex 6, Table 7.
Year       Year       Year       Year
1          2          3           14
IuO  Steer purchasoe        L9...      86.9      306.9       379.1
50% Operating costs         3L-8       55-9        75.3        81.7
121.2      142.8      382.2       1460.8
Incremental operating
capital       121.2         21.6    318.0*
* Years 3 & 4 incremental shown in year 3.
April 6, 1973



stE' ONUa tlIVE5T1t  DUC1PEN PDYu   ROJr.s 
Sate,i and Ol'erAtlOx Oirreen In' InrI lotIs
Sble of Cul0 La.         19,000         37.713          54,081       60,2Q0        90,224        13 .126       144.01        160,256       170.273        170.451       170,451
b.il1r                     1,492        2.571            2.907        2.07         2.756          3 219         3.340         3.526          3.746         3.750         3,750
Svb-tt.l              20,492        4(0,284          56.988       70,817        92,90o        137,345       147,8e5       165,782        174,019       174,201       174,201
SA6E OF SORP,I s
Helter. 24-36                  0             o               Q                          0 O            O0O                          0       68,394         63,26R        80.098
Otre,ra 36-.6           726, 82        62,417           70,042       77,414       140.362        209.331       230,135        Z54.649       275.315       285.675       301 538
95ev,. 48-60             60,515        30,826                0            0             0              0              0             0             0             0              D
Sler,600                       0             0               0            O              '             0              0             0             0             0              0
YOI,zOa.ed Oleer.              0      128.760          125.117     .41.987        73434... 5     31.817        291.814       1903)73        10  1.420      64.296             0
Sob-t.ttl              86,t97       222,00J          195,17t      519,401       675,234        591,207       521,969       445.022       426,129        413,239       381,636
TOt.l S.l-.            107,1}9       262,287          252.16 ,'    S90,216       7b8.21i        72,.552       669,824       608,804       t0O,148        587.440      5SS,E71
0862651190C"StTS
OPIEl7  )COSTS
S-.1 r,a,.            1X,4003,400    01,4(0          55,40        5             55,400         SS,400        55.400         55,400        55,400        55,400         55,400
o,-e, tnE ~,ge.,p rre     6,00      12,001( 16,000                 I6,0          6..00         16 ,001 S,O6,00016Doo                      16,000         16,000       16.000
RepaIrs                3,0(10        13,D00 .6,3 0  1,00  l1      18,700        18,000         10,000         10,000        18,000 I8.000               le,0OO         18.000
oflr-e                 I,OOo          2,3(10          2,3170       2,41U0         Z000         2,0)'0         2.000         2,000         2,000         2,000          2,000
8.e1apveer1                41             0               0            0              0        611.000             0             0             0              0             0
Rrnt                    7.2.00        7.200           7.210        73,200        7.200          7.2G0          7.200         7.200         7.100           .00          7.200
30,600        73.600          98,600       90.600        98,600         158,600        98,600        96,600        98,600        98,600         98,600
9iS01001,0 00$75
Dip,k/                 16,000        18,000          25000        30.000        30,000          30,000        30,000        30.000        30,000        29,704         29,995
V-1- C   2/8,000                      9,000          122500       15,000        10,00           1,0 1., IOOO                1,OO0         15,0W.0        14,852        14.998
B-..e1Iove./           8,000          9.000          22,500       IS,00         1,(5)00         15.000        15.000         5 I.0O0      15.0110        14.052        24.998
qel81s1 *xpfesns        1,.o3        2. 64            2.152         1.913        t.J24          5.917          563           4,763         4 .66         4.s47         4.265
To.a1              33,043         38.264          52.152       64,913        66,324         65,917        65,36.         64.763        64,666        63.956         64,255
St1ck Porohas--           89,417        S6.900         306.935      379.127       277.820         213,578       144,699        84.794         54,677         9,961         9.961
Totcl Cost,            153.060       198.764         457 .68 7    542, 640      442.744         438.095       3C8,660       248,157       217,942        172,516        172,817
INCOME                   (45,871)       63,524        (205.522)      47.577       325,471         290.457       361.163       360,647       382.205        414.924       083.020
D/ ipping .s..L ha.e be-, totitotd at K.h 10 per n.imal ,.tLC.
2/  l'aelnee cOJte hsve been estimted .t K6h 5 pee Animal oant.
5/  tonrflaor cra,  have bnen ec Imtnte  81 11.6 S per anins  .,eOt.                                                                                   
C/ Sell log erntrne.  .rc it 1l6 S ptr head. 
I.- 26, 1973



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Company ranch 28,000 ha
Incremental Cash Flow
Ksh 'OOU
Year                                           1             2              3              4             5               6               7              8               9              10            11
Source of Funds
Sales                                            107.2         262.3           252.2         590.2          768.2          728.6           669.8           608.8          600.1           587.4         587.4
Long-term  loan,                                 649.0         311.0           369.6                                                         -               -               -               -
Rancher investment'                              162.3           77.8           92.4            -             -               -                              -               -               -
Total Sources                                918.5          651.1          714.2          590.2         768.2           728.6          c69.8           608.8           600.1           587.4       587.4
Use of Funds
Operating Costs                                  153.1         198.8           457.7         542.6         442.7           438.1           308.6           248.1          217.9            172.5       172.5
Fixed  Investment                                106.0         233.0           144.0            -             -                              -               -               -               -           -
Breeding Stock                                   584.1         134.2             -
Loan Interest a/                                  51.9          76.8           106,4            -                     -               -              -
LoanAnnuity3'                                      -             -               -       .  255.4          255.4           255.4          255.4           255.4           255.4           255.4           -
Total Uses                                   895.1          642.8          708.1         798.0         698.1           693.5           564.0           503.5          473.3           427.9         172.5
Annual Cash Surplus/(Deficit)                     23.4            8.3            6.1        (207.8)         70.1            35.1           105.8           105.3          126.8           159.5        414.9
Cumulative Cash Surplus/(Deficit)                 23.4           31.7           37.1        (170.7)       (100.6)          (65.5)           40.3           145.6          272.4           431.9         846.8
1/ Rancher investment represents 207. of investment cost (Annex 6 Table 6)
_/  Interest at 87. per snnum on outstanding balance of loan.
3/  Anruity for 7 years at 8%.
April 4, 1973



AIOEx 6
EWTA                                          Irable 9
SIIMD LIVSTOCX DEWWflIT FROJKC?
Herd Dw O.poent Projection
Co,rsf.l it-nche. - 3.400 he
&sn of Year
HIRD C,POSI1ICN         Pre-de1opaent        1                                                        6 _  4
Beading cove               400           b33        516         565        565         565         565        565
Bulls                       20            22         26          26         28          28          28         28
aaers                      21,0           269       303         387        424         424         424        424
9-2b, Month Helfere        114            I14       125         131        131         131         131        131
9-21. Honth Steer.        1I1 i4II                  125         1147       188         206         206        206
24-36 Henth Heifers        109            1O0       145           0           0          0           0          0
24-36 lon3.h Steers        109             68       109         121        112         le2         199        199
36-46 Henth Steere         104              0         0           0           0          0           0          0
Total Numberr           970            859       946         992      1,054       1,112      1,129       1,129
(Ttl Animals)          1,210         1,119      1,249      1,379       1,678       1,536      1,553       1,553
S.b-Total A.U.           970           b59        946         992      10514       1,112      1,129       1,129
Purchased Steers           0              0       187         111         79          21           0           0
Total Animal Units      970           859      1,133      1,133       1,133       1,133      1,129       1,129
I~R?AUTTr
fesding covs                20             20        17          15         17          17          17         17
bi1s                         1              1         1           1          1           1           1          1
anaera                       0             12        10           9         12          13          13         13
9-214 ?-,nth Heifers         5              6         5           LI         4           b           b          If
9-214 Honth Steers           5              6         5           4          6           6           6          6
2U-30 Month Heofer.          5              5         4           i           0          0           0          0
24-36 Nonh btars             S              j         3           3          4           4           5          6
36-L,  Month Heifere         S              0         0           0           0          0           0           0
36-148 Month Steers          5              5         0           0          0           0           0           0
bb-60 Ibnth Heifers          5              0         0           0           0          0           0           0
Lo-bu Ibnt9 Heiferr          i              O         o           0           0          0                       0 O
60-72 Hooth St.er-                          0                     0           0          0                       A O
latt ning Cu! 7F.' Y     _   _                                                           C          0           0
5ub-Total                71            60         45         37          44          hS         46          47
PurchaFed Steers                                   0           6          h           2           1          0
Total                    76            60         45          43         48          47         47          47
PURCHASES
Bren.ing Age Heifers         C             25        25           0          0           0           0          0
Bu11s                        5              6         9           b          6           6           6          6
S.b-Total                    5            31         3.           8          6           6           6          6
Steers                       0              0       17         141         79          21           0          0
Total                     5             31       221         149         85          27           6          6
SALES
3.).;                          h             4          4           5          5           5           5          5
9-2h Month Steer,              0              0         0          16          57         75          75         75
9-2L Vonth Steers Ln           0             '.         0           0           0          0           0           0
24-36 Month Heifer,            0              0        10           0           0          0           0           0
24-36 Month Steers Loan        C            1l0         0           0           0          0           0           0
36-48 Month Steers           104              0        65         106         117        138         177         193
46-60 Month Steers             0             99         0           0           0          0           0           0
Fattening Cull FF3           100             76        e3         100         110        110         110         110
20ub-Total                   206            323       162         227        269         328         367        383
Purchased Steer.               C              0         0         le2         137         77          21           0
Total                        2Q8            323       162         409        126         405         388         363
TErEHICAL COF.FFICIENTS
We.ning Rate I            60.00          65.0o     70.00       75.0w       75.00      75.00       75.00       75.00
Ad..1t Mrut.itty /                         5 3.Ou    4.Ow        3.00        3.00       3.00        3.00        3.00
EKtraction rmte 6          21.4..         37.56     16.12       21.30      22.06       22.79       25.64      27.33
Tot. Output Pat. U         21.L.4         37.56     17.13       22.94      27.14       29.514      32.4.9     33.98
Cows/Total Herd S          33.o6          38.67     l1.32       LO.99       38.24      36.81       36.40       36.1o
&.LI/Cow  R.tio %           5.00           5.00      5.00        5.00       5.00        5.00        S.OO       S.00
ow Colil ing 'ate S        20.70          20.00     20. w       20.b0a      20,0O      20.00       20.00       20.00
BSll Culling Hate 1        20.00         20.00      20.00       20.00      20.00       20.00       20.00      20.00
St cking S t.e HAA/A.U.     3.5i           3.96      3.W0        3.00       3 .         3.00        3.01       3.01
Itocking Rate A.U./HA       0.29           0.25      (.33        0.33        0.33       0.33        0.33       0.33
Carrying Cap. A.H.           erC           e85      1,133       1,133       1,133      1,133       1,133       1,133
June 26. 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 10
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVIOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Commercial Ranch - 3,400 ha
InveEtment CoEts
GE- 7ooD- --
Year        Year        Total
Units       Unit Cost         1            2         CoEt         Foreign Exchange %
Inve-trent Category
Water Facilities
Bore/m                          1            60.0           30.0        30.0        60.0                50
Pump                                           6.o            -           6.0         6.o                90
Piping                          5 km          12.0            -          60.0        60.0                80
Troughr                         2              3.0            -           6.0         6.0                20
Tank, 10,000 gl1                1             11.0            -          11.0        11.0                20
30-0       113.0       143.0
Cattle Yard and Dip             1             20.0          20.0         -           20.0                20
Vehicles
Tractor and trailer           1             22.0          22.0         -           22.0                90
Firebreak and road             10 km            .5           5.0         -            5.0                20
Ye-ncing                      o10 km           1.5            7.5         7.5        15.0                10
____ !fering                   50 ha            .2            1.0         1.0         2.0
85.5       121.5       207.0
50o.3        32.9       537.2
0
Incremental
Working Capital/                                           4o.o    _12.3         166.3                25
Total                                                     629.8        202.7    912.e
.' For rnmber see Annex 6, Table 9.
-  Ibrking capital is defined as 100% of steer purchase and 50% of operating coste:
Year          Year
1            2
100t Steer purchase                -            121.6
50% Operating costs              Le.o           46.7
40.0         168.3
Increaental working capital      40.0          128.3
April 3, 1973



7C,ON0 LIV8SSTU  01VtMWMFpl Poct
Salg  *d Oand t1Q  lx. .. Pro1z stSon
Co.cla nI .cb  - 5,400 h
-_                                         2}                                         4                                                     7-20
SAIlS
Sal. of Co1l Co              48,032             54,481            67,235            74,559             74,559            74.559             74.559
8.ll.                         2.972             3L347              4.11     _        4.550              4.550             4 550              4,550
S.b-totel                 51.004            57,828             71.368            79.109             79,109            79,109             79,109
SA1 OFP 0RPtlS
IhIfr. S 24                       0                  0             5,782            20.569             2V,025            27,025             27.025
B. 16.. 24-16                     0              4,8640                                  0                                    0                  0
St*-$ 9-24                   14,097                  0                 0                 0                  0                 0                  0
11.-.. 24-36                 45,562                  0                 0                 0                  O                 O                  0
St.-r. 36-48                      0             39.834            66.,79            75.152             88,430           113.001            123,799
Ste.r. 48-60                 84,178                  0                 0                 0 9                                  0                  0
.rth ... d St..-r                 0                 0            166.445           127.317             71 213            19.333                  0
S.b-tot.1                143,837            44,674            239,106           223,038            186,668           159.351           5150.24
T.ta.  S.1..              194,841            102,502           310.474           302.147            265,777           238.468            229,933
OPERATING COSTS
FWXD C,OSTS
S.1.rlu                      39,300             41 300            41,300            41.300             41.300            41.301             41.300
op.n.t1..  cap n....         12,000            14 SOO             14.500            16.500             14 500            14.503            14.500
"polrl                       8I000              t2.0C0            12,000            12,000             12,000            12,OJ0             12,000
Offie                         2,000              2,000             2.000             2,000              2,000             2,C00              2,000
R* pi .._nt                     0                   0                 0                 0                  0            30000                   0
61,300            69,800            69,600             69.800            69,800             99,800            69,800
VAR7IASI. CO$Ts
Ani1 HOIth -  2/             110                22.,660           22,660            22,600             22.660            22,579             22,579
S    n1li4 SLJe..-            1 612      _         10         _2045    _             2113              2025               1.939              1.918
18,782            23,470            24,705             24,793            24.685             24,517            24,497
Stock                             0            1rch,e.  0  121.631  115.279         67.919             27.662            12.660            12.660
T5t0l C..tc                 00,082          214,901           209.784           162.512            122.147           136,977            106,957
t8CO9                       114.75s           (U2I.9) 00 690                       13,4935            143.630           101.491            122.976
1/ A-1.  h:.Ith noet t have boon e.tIt.d at 1.Sh 20 V r aol.  ..ontt,
it Sal1i9g *0P n0c       rat KA S. V" he  d.
S.., 26, 1973



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Commercial Ranch - 3.400 ha
incremental Cash Flov
Ksh '000
Year                                       1             2             3            4                5              6              7             8             9             10
Source of Funds
Sales                                         194.8         102.5         310.5         302.1           265.8          238.5          229.9         229.9          229.9         229.9       229.9
Long-term loan                                503.8         226.2           -             -               -              -               -             -             -
Rancher  Investment                           126.0          56.5           -             -                -              -              -             -             -             -           _
Total Sources                            824.6          385.2        310.5          302.1           265.8          238.5          229.9         229.9         229.9         229.9        229.9
Use of Funds
Operating Costs                                80.1         214.9         209.8         162.5           122.1          137.0           107.0         107.0         107.0         107.0      107.0
Fixed Investmnent                              85.5         121.5                                          -             -                             -             -           -
Breeding Stock                                504.3          32.9           -             -                -              -              -             -             -              -         -
Loan Interest2/                                40.3          58.4          58.4           -                -              -              -             -             -              -
Loan Annuity3/                                  -             -             -           140.2           140.2          140.2          140.2         140.2          140.2         140.2        -
Total Uses                                710.2        427.7          268.2        302.7           262.3           277.2          247.2         247.2         247.2         247.2       107.0
Annual Cash Surplus/(Deficit)                 114.4         (42.5)         42.3           (.6)           (3.5)         (38.7)          (17.3)        (17.3)        (17.3)        (17.3)      122.9
Cumulative Cash Surplus/(Deficit)             114.4          71.9         114.2         113.6           117.1           78.4            61.1          43.8          26.5           9.2       132.1
1/ Rancher investment represents 207. of investment cost (Annex 6 Table 10)
/  Interest at 8%/ per annum on outstanding balance of loan.
3/  Annuity for 7 years at 87..                                                                                   v 
.pril 4, 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 13
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feedlot-/
Herd Projection
Before Development       Year 1       Year 2-20
Herd CoDEnit ion
Fattening cattle                         -                3,200         3,200
Purchases                                -                3,264         6,528
Mortality                                -                   6            128
Sales                                    -                  -           6,boo
Technical Coefficients
Mortality 2.
Rate of gain
On grass = 0.b2 kg/hd/day
In feedlot - 1.0 kg/hd/day
Feed conversion efficiency   7kg feed D.M./kg liveweight gain
Average sale weight = 3L0 kg/hd.
1/  To accommodate 1,600 head in feedlot and 1,600 on pa&ture (backgrounding).
March 2, 1973



ANNEx 6
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Feedlot Operations5/
Investmnent Co-ts
Year      Year      Total      Foreign
Units     Unit Cost       1          2       Cost       Exchange %
Investment Category
Buildings
Housing - Grade 1                   1          10O.0       100.0                100.0         4o
Grade 2                  3           20.0         60.0                60.0         20
Grade 3                 10            6.0         60.0                AQ.0         20
Workshop                            1           20.0        20.0                 20.0         20
Office                              1           20.0         20.0                20.0         20
Stores                             1            20.0        20.0                 20.0        20
Sub-total                                         280.0                280.0
General
Roads                             10 km          2.0        20.0                 20.0        20
Fencing                            35 lom        2.0         70.0                70.0         10
k:ater Installation                 1           50.0        50.0                 50.0        60
Electricity Installation            1           60.0        60.0                 60.0        60
SiloF                               5            4.0        20.0                 20.0         o0
Feed Yards                          1          140.0       140.0                1b0.0         20
Handling Yards                      1           20.0        20.0                 20.0         20
Spray Race                          2           15.0        30.0                 30.0         20
Equipment and Vehicles
F-whee 1d rve                                   30.0         30.0                30.0         90
Truck                               1           60.0        60.0                 60.0         90
Forage unit?/                       1          240.0       2140.0               240.o         90
Cultivation P1itV1                              60.0        60.0                 60.0         90
Feeding unitu                       1          100.0       100.0                100.0         90
Tools                               1           20.0        20.0                 20.0         4O
Manure spreader                     2            5.6        10.0                 10.0        9G
Motorcycie                          2            3.'.        6.o                  6.o         90
Sub-total                                          526.0                526.0
PaEture development              300 ha           .4       120.0               120.0
Incremental Ubrking capital -5/                           .570.n      307.0   1,877.0        10
Capital                                                2,906.0      307.0   3.o
1/ To accommodate 1,600 lead in feedlot and 1,600 on pasture (backgrounding)
?/   Includes 5 tractors, 3 waggons, 1 harvester, 1 bachrole.
y/   Includes 2 ploughs, 2 harrows 1 planter, 1 fertiliser.
4/   Includes 1 silage cutter and loader, 1 mixer feeder, 2 hammer mills
2 elevator angar.
2   Working capital is 1OGt of operating corts for first year and 50% of
operating coEts thereafter.
Year       Year
1           2
Working capital   1,570O    1X,77T0
Incremental working
capital 1,570.0      307.0
April i, 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 15
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feedlot - Sales and Operating Expense Projections
Ksh '000
Year                                 1                    2-20
Sales!/                                                     I 4,560
Operating Costs
Wages and salaries
Manager                                 40                      40
Supervisors                             20                      40
General                                 7L                      98
Sub-total                          13h                     178
Silage costs- 2                        112                     17h
Feed purchaed                           -                      544
Veterinary expenses                     13                      51
Pasture maintenance                     -                       60
Rent                                    50                      50
Repairs                                 -                       28
Cattle purchase-                    1,26i                    2,669
T.:tal operating costs           1,570                   3,75
Income                           (1,570)                    806
h ,560
/    Sale of 6,400 at Ksh 712.5/head.
2J   Includes, fertilizer, seed, spray, storage etc.
$/ At Ksh .86/head for maize, molasses mix and cotton seed cake.
L/   Purchasee  of 3,264 in year 1 and 6,526 thereafter.
February 28, 1973



KENYA
SECO!.D LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Feedlot
Increnental Cash Flw.,
Ksil'  OWo
Year                                       i              2              3              4              5              6              7              8               9             10
Source of Funds
Sales                                                        4,560.0        4,560,0        4,560.0        4,560.0        4,560.0         4,560.0        4,560.0        4,560.0        4,560.0          4,560.0
Lo-g-temr  loan                               2,324.8           245.6                 -              -              -              -               -                     -
Ranc.ler Investsrn1t /                           581.2           61.4                         _              _              ,              _              _              _               _                _
Total Sources                              2,906.0        4,867.0        4,S60.0        4,560.0        4,560.0        4,560.0        4,560.0         4,560.0        4,'60.0        4,560.0         4,560.0
Use of Funds
Operating Costs                                1,570.0        3,754.0        3,754.0        3,754.0        3,754.0        3,754 .0       3,754.0        3,754.0        3,754.0         3,754.0         3,754.0
Fixed Inv.st=t                                 1,336.0                         -              -              -              -              -              -               -              -                -
Loan Interest                                    186.0          205.6          205.6          -              -              -              -              -               -              -
Loan AnnI.,ity                                                                 -              493.7          493.7          493.7          493.7          493.7          493.7           493.7            -
Total Uses                                 3,092.0        3,959.6        3,959.6        4,247.7        4,247.7         4,247.7        4,247.7        4,247.7        4,241.7        4,247.7          3,754.0
Annual Cash Surplus/(Deficit)                  (186.0)          907.4          600.4           312.3         312.3           312.3          312.3          312.3          312.3          312.3           806.0
Cum slative Cash Surplus/(Dciicit)             (186.0)          721.4        1,321.8        :1,G4.1        1,946.4        2,258.7        2,571.U        2.883.3         3,195.6        3,507.9         4,313.9
1/  Rancher investment represents 207. of investment cost (An,,ex 6, Table 14).
2/ Intere t at 87. per annum on outstanding balance of loan.
3/ Annuity for 7 years at &6.
April 5, 1973



K F.NYA
SVC (ND  (.I VES If  4   Dr E  IhF( 1l6'2.9N     PR JCT,  
Cranitog  ((li s1,t    On -il   mil         i.t   - I si, Iii
.netw ,,,ad  R,,rrr,nt (Cost.,
KnnS   000o                       Pro jirt  Yea,rs
Ut, i                                                                                                                                                F-reign
Borehois, Cinn,tr,ctf,,on                                                   124.0              *(4) ~96.ii                 (4)   4 .0                 (4)   496.u                                        (1b)   1.488,0               50                    52.0
R,Sner,vi'r  cln,tr-  t iontif                                             3 000, 0             (l) 30(0.0                                                                                2~250.0)i    (P4           750.0            90
Large  rs-nrou           tiA r    s    o                                    110.0               (2)   I,-,0 .0             (2)     20.0               (2)   220.0                                         (8)        660.0            50
Small  onroltio trei                                                          14.4              (7)   107.9                (7)   101.8                (7)   107.8                                         (2!)       323.4            40
Roajd  c,.n,tr,o,t l ot                                                          .8             (70)   tOO                 (70)   ",,6.0              (70)   56.0                                 4       (210,      188.0            50
I  Iell  ,s  nnr . i,tln   n i tt                                           70.0              (:       ;.0                                                                                (3) .         (1           35.0           90
well  iotcrn   Iin                                                            1.0U                       40  0             (4)    40 L 0              (4)    40.0                                         (12)        I12.0           50                   52.0
Ve h i , I                                                                    .'6t 0            Oi      1)0  it,                                      (3)      (8.0                                       (8)        208.0            9)0                  37.5
v"h i c I e                                               11(~~~~~~~~4.0    (3)   1P40.0                                                                                              (3)         1 50.u.         90
O  xi  IC.                                                                    10.0              (4)      40.0                                                                                             (4)          40.0           4 0
Senio",r  h,ooslng                                                            90. 0                                        (1)    91. 0               (2)   190.0                                         P4t        770.0            40
huir(o-siop                                                              '5.0                                         ()   100.0                 (3)     75.0                                       (7)         174.0            10
Cs-s-pino  gsor                                                               21. 0             dO)       00               110)   70.0                (10)   20,.0                                        (30)         60.0           90)
W1  ghnb r idoge                                                            60.0               (1)     4(0                                                                                              (1)           50.0           S0
Cait tle   -inhn                                                               5.               (..)      0  Ii            (4)      AO. 0(4)                   20.0                                       (12)         60.0            10
C. tt I n  d Ips                                                              1 4.              (3)                                                             6C(4   4.                                 (10)        1-              1)L-  I
1Iot a I a cp tnl)tI                                                                                               4  6                       nA                          .4                    ,497.0                                   89.5
Rec,orr-nt Costs
Liio-nt-sk  Ot!i,v-                                                           18.                1 SI(1                               .;().0                    0i                    (1     18.0                       20                                18.0
AnimaI lal t  .I , A,sltiSt ILt                                                 6.4              1            i1)                     h               (2)      13.U                   (2i   Ii.(i                      39.0                        (2)   13.0
A-II L a,t  Rigs     tt i  er                                                 0't                                            1       .021                      ..                     (2)   It0                       1 44.0                       (2)   48.0L
kmogo  A       I L 4tai                                                        67()C2o0(4                                                                         .                   (4)    6.0                       76.0                        (4)   26.0
(riOt is                                                   6.~~~~~          (p3      ~      ~      ~      i         0              (1)   21.4                     (11)71.1 >~~.,                 :4 7 . C1)7.
Ceta   taif:                                                              .3t)                                                2.                (7)    ..S                ?.0  (7        9.('6 .0                                            (7)   28.0
11"ose M,int,,na"-                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.8  1i .1                     15.9           40                  11.1
(loadl in  iltac-..6                                                                                                                                             4.6                           8..                      16.8           50                   8.4
Rs-n,ni'i r W,1 I   alts-t.tt.                                                                                                                                                                                         70.0            50                 94.0
Veltit I~  9lnisten,ioto ,i A ttt,Rr        ott.                           C.)6                                       1( 1011(1                           ,                        I0(1)I 64    )       0          1. 0          40(1 16.
(iorch,ile       tio.ns                                                          ( 6.6                   ..1I(9                     4.6                (12)   72.0                    (1'I)  72.t1006                                              (12)    2.0
Ro.ut i,s  drips., di1pplng  m.t,or  lsi                                                                 .X i                        1  0                      4(.0.                         1.11                       70.0           40                 40.0
Of1 fi-nsXCOt                                                                                                                         Cii                       0.1_____________________                                                                   20.0
I.1 tt oI    L~ tt..t It                                                                                                                    i.                               -       -,724*7-~                                         615.0
Total Cost during  project  perio,d                                                                                                                                                                              6,422.1
I)   R-,t, t oitr  n,sr-,tt 11  ui t  i ncsIud,S'   i,ter  a Iia .                         I w)c-1 -d   t11   ri;.. li    s,,'.s          :r-r.k do- ,r            1t(  pi,Sh,-r  -..,! rI pp. ;,r.
0,u,.r   i t)i  (t ake   dd  r ipper.  t r,Lked   dou,r  ior  (..-h , I , t1: 2!11).is    r,,)n.                           h (i I (I 'mot or  gradinri   (2.
flusI  at,d .,it,r  tan,k,  o!hu  .,,(, i 1 workshop  .ini  stor,s.
2;   Rpris,enot  trLaId,--in  vaI ~e  osdon op  raing     i fe  of  7 stt                      t  70  s..1  r--l .           sar,-a,.
3/   R,i1 iritss-  t.  tr tad,- ihiviiz        adsd  on  S    i    I li i.. 
*                         "1 ~~~~~igure  i,n  braLkets  is  nuniber  of units.q



_ N:~ A
00) '42 I ,4F) :(5 R  F:l ) l'O4 .(FN- 'IJRFI
Noxrthoa. )'turvm ncet rac n( flock t)pvelopnen5t
lnVcs..nnnt o.'n Rscirr.'nt (ur.t.
)ish '000
lProS int teSTs                                    olg
oapita1 Costs                               Onit (ost               i                       2                       3                      4                        itl                 Exchang-               5 . 20
Borehole construction                         124.0              (3 1   37.0             (5)   620.0             45)   620.0             (4)   620.0 U,    (18)  2,232.0                    50
Reservoir construction unit                 3 000                     3,000.0                                                                (.5o. (J)_      (1,   1,500.0                  90
L'rge reservoir  cnatru-tion                  110.0              (8)   880.0             11) I,oO.O              (10)1,100.0             (10)1,100.0         A38) 4,180.0                   50
5Sh11 reservoir c-otr-ction                    I-                (301  462.0             .30)  462.0)            (30,  462.0             (30)  46:.0  3/   (120)11#48.0                     50
Road construction unit                        7!0.0                     720.0                    -                                             (360.0)-      ,1)      360,0                 90
Road COnSttOctioO                                 .8             142S) 340.0             S425) 340.0             (425) 340.0             i425) 34C.0       (1.700) 1,360.0                  50
Senior ho-ting                                 91 0              (3)   270.0             (1)     90 0                                                        (4)      360.0                 40
JunIor honsalng                                2s.0              (5)    1C.0            (S)    12.0             (2)     50.0                                (12)    300.0                  10
V hl le. i to,                                 26.0              (3)      78.0            (1)     2,.0           (2)      52.0           (1)      26.0        (7)     182.0                 90                 95.0
Vehicles 5 to.,                                 50o.              (1'    50.0             I)10.U                 (1)      50.0           (2)    100.0         (b)     30(0.0                90
Caravans                                       30,0              (2)    60.0                      -                        -                       -          (2)      601 0                90                 15.0
Sun,drv c")tpr-et)t                                                       2()0                    20.0                    20.0                    ?0.0        (-       80.0                 80
Total Capital                                               b (77.0                2,883.0                 2,h94.0                    808.0             12.762.0                                   110.0
Rec-rrent Costs
Civfil Engineer                                64.0               (1)    64.0             (I,  h4.0               (I)     64.0           (1)      64.0                256.0                 75             (1)  64.0
Kvdrogeol-Elst                                  72.0              (1)     72.0             I       2 2.0          (1)     72.0           (1)      72.0                288.0                 75
Hydrclogist                                    72.0               (1)     72.0           ,l)      72.0           (1)      72.0           (1)      72.0                28b.0                 75
Assistant Range Ofticer                         24.0                                      U1)     24.0            (2)    48.0             (4)     96,0                 16Y.0                               (41  96.0
Range Assistants                                 6.5                                        )     2u 0            (81     S2.0           (8)      52.0                 130.0
7cchnica1 Asnisltnts                            14.5              (10)  145.0             (!0)   145.0            110)  145.C             (10)  I ..0                  580.0                               (5)  72.5
Junior staff                                     5.7              (3)     17.1            (8)    4;.6             (13)     74.1           f13)   74.1                 210.9                                (8)  45.6
Vehicle malo terance and r -oing co.ts    15.0                    (4)    60.0             (7)    105.0            10)   150.0 M13)  195.0                              510.0                50             (10)150.0
H.-se rmaintel-arce                        2?1 Cost                        -                      10.0                    15.0                    17.0                  42.0                40                   17.0
Rosd m-intenance                             5'. cost                      -                      17.0                    34.0                    51.0                 102.0                50                   68.0
Rese-iolr and  vell maintenance              5. Cost                                              -                        -                       -                    -                   50                  410.0
Borehole raintenance                             6.0              (3)     18.0            (8)    4b.0             (13)    .8.0            (151   N8. 0                 252.0                50             (18)108.0
Total Recurrent                                               448.1                   628.6                   804.1                   946.1              2,826.9                                   1,083.1
I/  Reser-ir coustructiln unit Includes  inter  ,lia, two sheeled self-propelled  crapers. traded dozrr with pusher arid rippr
wheeled dozer with plsher and rippec. traded dozer for bush clearing and a,cess roads. sell-pr.pelled motor graders (2),
fuel and water tanks and mobile workshop and stores.
P/ Represents trade-in ualoe based on operating   life ot 7 years at 70 small re:ervoirs a year.                                                                                                                             I i
3/  Represe,ts trade-in values based on 6-year life.
* Figure in brackets is number of snits.



KOYA                                                                   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~HAI.
310000 LIYRTflK AIKWOE8I  MIOC?
y..                   0-br         E."             ..bq  3     .                         3o3          Unt OI 
loIn                 tI            310           -            -            -            -            ~~~~        ~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~320  31  10  la
'0o Rasp.                           ~~       ~     ~~~~~31                                                            "I    . -W   31             4                   20
480s.                            240          2             40         2.250          5            140                   6
40203to.4.illItptd                   2             0~~    ~     ~    ~     ~~18  1  J34    2            10         1.140         IA            20%2
P.,Aopl.,. A.                     20            200          ~      ~      ~~~         ~      ~      ~~~~~2 40 -. 00           12             I0                  8
3  222  -          -             -             -           3~~     ~    ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~02  3S0   .III
000 toOt..           0              00           -           -             -            ~      ~     ~~~          ~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 60  6   II  b0
Sob tots I                                     2,180~~~~~~~~~I'            414                        loS        2.042
1146                                      1,100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                       1
I A.~~~~~ W100.J' ~~~~~520                                *            240           -            240        2,000          -                                  0
''23A  -                 -             -         00~~~~~~~4,14  -              -0
II  -6oo  t-t. t-L.--o tol    4310
14,2 ,pot  '2  I,,' 2Io ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  . '0                                      ?  S1
.O,,,o.oodl31otsrn,          001            oo0          00~         ~~~~          ~ 240      -2040                       100            W                    60
It2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ In
o l,30100oI0                            ~~~~                                            ~     ~~~01  -  -11                           8                                   90,'
-3,1.1    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5U                            S         3,1-                      1.20         0.2
S llLoo,3-,..O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo                                                                        I             b
2.  1,-lot                        - .                                      220         24              48 2~~~A2.  .1.         122 
20     oO             0          .2                                     ,01.          30             1o                   0
10010                                                        0             -                          22           5            2                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
T-1  III                                          SI'm "1                      -             -                          02          0              I 
1.11.                                                               IA'AI                     loll S'9     -             -%          11 2I'10,                                        2
I      --,. -2            -...1 .1-1                        -18-                                                           288k..   ...  1221?I
52.o2.lrt-t,-f.   I,.I ..                             ....                                                                             20            5              0                   8
To.I. 20'.o   ..- f-- .             1           t-I        I         1                                         .t                                                  0t
Al It110 101-  ''22 O--                                                                           - -h                                     tO-2                                           Al



ANN X 6
Table 20
KENYA
SECONL) LIVESTOCK DE.VaOPMENT PROJECT
Market and Tranwport Deve3opment
Operation. anrd  Maintenarce CortE
Le  - LM=>
Before
Project       Year T         Year 2         Year 3         Year l-on
A. Marketr
Weighbridgerl/                           32             32             32               32
Other FacilitieV2/                       bc.            bO             b0               b0
B. Tran-port
Cattle Train.M3/          5)JC          90C)        1,obo0         1 ,LLO            I ,LLO
Cattle Truckz/                          71L            816         1,02u            1,020
Pick-up Trucks'            -            30(            360            360              360
Radio Shop
Equijament/_  -                           h              3              b             _ 
Total                5b(;         2,03L.         2,376          2,9LC            2,9Lt)
ASSUPTTONE,
C. Tran-port PhaFing
_TNbUrIw'TfT_2.
Cattle TrainE                3                            6              t                 1
Cattle Truckr                C             7              b             10               10
Pick-up Truckr               0            14)            12             12               12
D. Milec Trave!)led
Cattle Trainr        13 5,0:       225,(X0)       270,000        360,000          360,000
Cattle Truck-             -        23t3 ,C0       272,0(Y0       3L 0, oy         3Lo,C{JO
Pick-up Trucks            -        300, 00,       360,00c)       360,000          360, O0
1/  At K Sh 1,0(XO per year.
2/  Saler yardF, loadinr  rampr  at lg of total inveEtment (about K Sh 1.6 millicn).
3/  At K Sh Lb/mile (?ee Table 13 for detailr) - L,COK) Tniler per year; expectancy abt-ut
-   7 yearr; 3 cattle trains a!ready in Kenya.
t/  At K Sh 3/mile (oee Table L for detaijl) - 3)3,00I) miles per year; life expectancy
abort 7 yearr.
'3/ At K Sh i/mile; 3C0,'(X) mlleF per year; ;ife expectancy i. 7 yearF.
cJ At j percent of total in.ertmrent.
February 21, 1973



T.ble 21
UtA
SECONlD LIVESTOCK DEWWLFAZNT PROEWCT
t4r6elt/Stock RoutelHotdin. C.ro.nd Oev.lo.rnpt
Op-trot on and Iainten-n.e Cos.
4.h '000
YT- I                    Ye.r 2                Year ?                  Ye.r 4-Ar
lItr6ber    UAlt  CoSt           h_ber        Cr t        K1aber      Co-e        H.be        Cost      _
1. Mrer b Tr Dnseort Ibevlor.,nt
A.  j7tlnjchL   tAIatt.c-
C.-ordie "ot  Bay.r               I              140                I          110
Tr..port Officer                  I              140                1          140
IM-leteencr S .poroi.or
froloerar            S              20                S0 TO                                 IOC        S           l               1
Accoo-tant                        1              140                1          140           1           1:0        1            140             1.0
520                      240                     2401            240
8.  Kenyan Staff
tlc..rocl. 'nicer.                4               30                6          120                        20        4            1'0             120
Anlsal It.oltb A..i.tanf.        I               10               11          310         31            110       1            t10             310
A7iEanz Tr.e.orr Officer.    ...............1I.                      1                         24        I             24              24
NAlrek.  Oerser.                 31               10               31          310         31            310       71            T10             h1i!
1.is  1.ee                       610l                                         160         Ib            160       16            lb(             160
KIrrVes i40                                        a               22          176         2b            224       to            320             320
crt.ncas          81              elo0                              4           40          6             6C        6             60              60
Sibordirate St.1f-              100               1. 8$5                       100        130            IS0      100           IHC             Icy
Sob-tterl                                                      .       1.240                     1.3dd                   1,484           1.44.
Tot-l I                                                                1.760                     1,628                   1,724           1,724
II. St ck Roote.'tHldtng Cro-nd Ditnolonnt
C   lp-rt ti  *nd t.alnteen..
Ecrehole.-, ]                                                                   -                         45                    85              05
ater r ond.-                                                                    SN                       16 Ih8                248             248
"rtet T.Aliti,                 ,                                                52                       124                   1S5             16I
Stock Rooee/Holdieg  Grognd.-                                                  200                       200                   200             2010
Lend  'l0crl ,6                                                           300                    1,060                1.00             i,Oh0
7-ton lorrie-                                                            140                        300                  300              101
S.b-tot5I                                                                 780                    1.897                 2,n48           2,030
Kencen S.ffi9
SubordInat  Staff                                                              iso                      10                    280             I0 
T,,t.1 It                                                                 960                    2.,)77                2.!'            2.?Sb
GLAtiD TOTAL                                                            2,720                    3.205                 y.9$,2           7s62
..inlt unekill.d labor-  hbrd-n, c..tle g,rds, driv-r  ates   c
_ 0  5,0OO b hole pr                             egin opr-ltng on.  y-. .ft-r c-ctructiot-   OSA: A              develon rln and leasibtity    tudy rn   Pllt AR.
Se-Iopsert  -rolect In  ioetbe..t prov.:%   in r-ny.- 1970. 
.3   Al 57 of In.eelft   f  _rket fcilltl.e and if-ra -ro  ture.(S.* T7bl.  1).
'_   MeI-ntenene of a  .       il, o a1 rohk Coo. notnork and about o hbe.lf *-ili-n  -.re. of hblding grond.
At Sh 1!.11.;  30O0W0  a1../yar.
h6  At KSb 2-11.;  30.000 .Ilty..r.
'7   retmatIed ot arerage value ol Inneersent to firt ye.r;  ott vrg   cuulric. teveer_ee  in eu.cedina  eer.
A   AcCuse. vebtefes b-co_r. veolable tn *id-tr.-
k lR;  ubordi-at. ftal  for brdl.. garde. and oth,r do L.s.  einly on th.  htokroutes and boldieg ground,  bhere the.e  -r                           k no  arketa   A: K Sh 700f,/yr,
-aro  2. 1973



An"A 6
Table 2
KENYA
SECCOND LIVESTXI( I EVfLOP7IENT PROdECT
R-v.n.. an d C-st. of 12D
o h '000
Before
Prolect          Yosr I           Year 2          Ye"r 3           Year 4          Year 5  20
1          Revenue Fro:
Cattle Selanl/                         12,3405'          3S,500          40,400           47,720          51,000           54-260
K.arket Charfg,'/                        -   I/             920            1,000           1,100            1,200           1,300
SRKlC Charge                            1.0oo8/           2,280           2,400            2,260           2,680            3,140
Vetertrary Chorge.1                        iOO9/            920            1.000           1.100            1 200           1.300
Total lev1nue                     13,840           39,620           44,800          52,180           56,080          60.000
11.   Costs
10/
I20's Currenct 0 &      Costs           2.4006/           2,400           2,400            2,400            2,400           2,400
Purch.se of Cattle                     12.600-           29,320          33,080           38,700           41.500          44,620
MArket and TrsnaPort
- Teohn.i,l  Asistance111                                 520             240              240             240              240
- KeYan Staff11'                                        1,240           1,380            1,480           1,48!            1,480
* O6 M Cost                                             2,040           2,380            2,940           2,940            2,940
SR/hC Develop on
- IteKyn Staff,1/                                         180              180             180              180             180
-780          1900            2,040            2,060            2,060
Vetertnry Coat- D/ 500                      120           1,000            1,100           1,200            1,100
25,500           37,400          42,560           49,080           52,000          55,220
Not Income                             (1,660)            2,220            2,240           3,100            4,080           4,780
/  Based on Table 6, Col..nn E and C.
Anne.   3, Table 6:;  t Kob 5/anmlI P.Ing thlrough the arkt.
)/  Stock routc/holdlng Sround charge atK.h   20/inlnal .aitg the SR/hl  Iyseta; dipping charge, use of .ater and other fauillties.
!/  Veterinary coons: vcctntton aginaet ?I-uropneu-on.a, FrD.
/  IV sold 45,000 anl,uls at KL 13.7/ani.l or at Kai,  1.20/kg liveweIght; the difference in nmbers sold is due to death losses.
6/  LFC purchased 50,000 "nils fro  the NE at en average pr.-e   I KL 12.6 per an.Ll or Kbh  1/kg live-eight; the verage osight
at purchase was 250 kg/enl-l.
.f .aerk.t chrerBe are currntly i.pu..d.
8/  At iqh 20/anial passing through the Syte.e
2/ At Kh  10/animal.
I9/ Correct 0 & i cost. Source: LD records.
I1/ Frrm Table 3, Annen 3.
0   Current Operation and haintenanco costs of LMO which will contInue   The reatning co.ta are a11 iStreental.
May 9, 1974



K_NYA
0F'r,'2 LIVESTOCK I)EVELOF.F4T FRoJE(rT
Wildlife: Amboseli *nd Masa1 Mara - Investment Costs
Project Years                                                             loreign
unit  tUnit Cost                    1                        2                      3               _       4            Total        Exchange      5-on
spit
?ipeline installatiOn   miles       24.0         I4.}/    1,n0o.2        'z 1,l20                           _                        _,16o.o                     80
Storage tarnks         1,000 gal.      a  (11                '¾ l.O         '         8.0                                                          176.0         80
Booster pLmps and engines No.   '0.0                5)      ,50.0           )       ?50.0                                                          500.0         '
Vehicles                  v ton    2(.^            1)        .  0          1         )t.0                   -                        - '2.0                      90           13.0
Tools                                                         ^.0                                           -                        -              40.0         89            _
1.4 4.0       !                                                                   2,4f L                         2.928.0  13.0
Feourrent
Orivers               man year                    (1.         6.5         (25        13.0        (2)        13.0          (2)        13.0           45.5                      13.0
Mechanic              nan year       6.5          (1)         6.5         (1)         6.5        (1)         6.5          (1)         6.5           26.0                       6.5
Pmp maintenance                     16.0          (5)        80.o        (10)       160.0       (10)       160.0        (10)        160.0          560.0          50         160.0
Vehicle maintenance                 14.0          (1I        14.0         (2)        28.0        (2)        28.0          (2)        28.0           93.0         50G          28o.
107.0                   ?7.?                   207.2.                  207.1       .       7.5                  207.5
__tal                                                       1,571.0                  ),(7t.5                 207.5                    207.5         3,657.5                     220.5
1/ Fisure I. brackets gives number of units.
May 9, 1974



KENYA
SECOND LrVESTOCX DEVELOPMENT PtOJECT
Wildlife   Nairbo  Park DeveloPm-ent Costs
KsK-000
Unit   tlit Cost                1                      2                                           4 _               Tot,l              Exchsna                5-on
Caie barriar.            k          10.0             (6)     60.0          (6)    60.0           (6)    600            (6)    ,60.0             240.D               40
R05                     bskm        30.0             (40)1,200.0           (40)1.200.0           (40)1,200.0           (.0)1,200.0           4,800.0               50
Senior Housing          No.         90.0             (1)    90.0           (1)    90.0                   --                                     ISO0               40
junior Housfng          No.         25.0             (2)    50.0           (2)    50.0           (2)    50.0           (2)    50.0              200.0               10
office Equipment        No          70.0             (1)    20.0                    -                                                            20.0              40
Entry Cates             No.         10.0             (2)    70.0           (1)     10.0           (1)    10.0          (1)    10.0               50.0               70
vehicleg                   ton      26.0             (1)    26.0           (11      26.0          1)_  26.0            (1)    26.0              104.0               90                  26.0
Sub-total                                           1,466.0                1,436.0               1,346.0               1,346.0          5,594.0                                   26.0
Physical contingency'                                       14;.O0                14 .0                 135.0                 134.0             560.0
Total Capital                                        1,603.0               1,580.0               1,481.0               1,480.0           6,154.0
poad .,aint 2nan/c                                                                  60.0                 :2 0                   18.0            360.0               50                 240.0
House maintenance                                            -                       3.5                   7                      .0. 185                           40                   S05
Supervino     n          Iln year 36 0               (1)    36.0            (1)    36.0           (1)    36.0           (1)    36.0             144.0                                   36 .0
Assistant                sin  yeat   9.0              (2)    1810 0)    3                                                                                                               5 (6)    54.0  18)  1   4.0
Junior Stcff             nan year  6.0               (3)    18.0            (5)    30.0           (7)    4205                                   144                 -                   56.0
Vehicle m2intenence                 14.0              (1)    14,0           (2)    28.0           (3)    42 0           (4)    56.0             140.0               50                  56
Office Expenses                     10.0                     10.0                   10.0                  10.0                  10.0              4O                 40                 710.0
TotaL gecurrent                                           96.0                 203,5                Z03  0                  254.0            75t.5                                 476.5
LI 10. of capital investment
2!  5' of cost
3/  2g  of cost
fty 7, 197T



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wildlife - Censusing and Monitoring Invustment Costs
K Sh '000
Prolect Years
Foreign
capital                  Unit       Unit Cost               1                   2                     3                       4            Total            Exchange %         5-on
.Wennusing Contract                 Unit Cost
Aircraft flying time   hours           .           (1,650)396o0          (3,300)792.0           (3,300)792.o          (3,300)792.o
Pilot/Obrerwer         man year      60.0            (1)   60.0           (2)   120.0              (2) 120.0             (2)  120.0
Training Pilot/Obserrer man year  p.n                (2)   16.0           (14)    32.0             (4)  32.0             (IJ)   32.0
Total Contract                                   472.0                  944.0                 944.0                  944.0        3-304.0            70                 -
Aircraft                   No.    I40.0                    -                      -                      -               (2)  280.0           280.0           90               35.0
Vehicle                   5 ton      50.0            (1)   50.0                                                                -               50.0           90
Vehicle                    c ton     26.0            (2)   52.0                   _                                                            52.0           90               26.0
Rain gauges and
miscellaneous equipment            -                    80.0                  60.0                   60.0                   60.0           260.0           80                 -
Sub-total                                          6514.o             1,004.0                 I,of -                1,2b4.0         3,946.0                             61.0
Physical contingency                               65.0                  100.0                  100.0                 129.0           394.0
Total                                        719.0               1,104.0                1,104.0                1,413.0        4,340.0
R_current
Seniorr  ientirt         man year :oo.o              (½)   50.0           (1)  100.0              (1)  100.0             (1)  100.0           350.0           75               60.0
Statistical Cler1tr    man year   16.0               (1)   16.0           (2)   32.0              (2)   32.0             (2)   32.0           112.0            -               32.0
Secretary                man year   29.0             (½)   14.5           (')   29.0              (1)   29.0             (1)   29.0           101.5            -               29.0
Bookkeeper               man year   11-6             (½)    5.8           (1)   11.6              (1)   11.6             (l)   11.6            40.6            -               11.6
Field Clerks             man year   11.6             (1)   11.6           (2)   23.2              (2)   23.2             (2)   23.2            S1.2            _               23.2
Pilot Trainees          nman year   14.0             (2)   28.0           (4)   56.0              (4)   56.0             (14)   56.0          196.0                            56.0
Vehicle laintenance                  114.J           (1½)  21.0            (3)   12.0             (3)   142.0            (3) 442.0            147.0           50               420.0
Office Expenses                                             10.0-                20.0                    20.0                  20.0
156.9                313.8                   313.8                  313.8        1,098.3                            273.8
May 7, 1974



KD4YA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEV  O1MBNT PROJECT
Wildlife Development
Consolidated Incremental Costs and Revenues
Visitors          Visitors
Without          With           Visitors                                e
Project          Project        Increate         Incremental    Incrementai/  Incremental
OOs             OOOs             OOOs           Income             Costa       Increa£e(decrease)
atKoh 12/
visitor
-- -(      ---- Kn' OOOE ---- -------J
0            25h              25h               -
1            256              281              25             300          3,944             (3,640)
2            259              312              53             636          6,129             (5,493)
3            261              346               85          1,020          43182             (3,162)
4            26h              384             120           1,440          5,067              (3,627)
5            265                              160           1,920          2,557              (637)
6            267              472              205          2,L60          2,557                (97)
7            266              524             256           3,072          2,557               515
8            270              58a             311           3,732          2,557              1,175
9            271              645             364           1,366          2,557              1,811
10            273              686              413           4,956          2,557              2,399
11            27h              761             145           5,820          2,557              3,263
12            276             8U5              569           6,828          2,557               4,271
13            277              903             626           7,512           2,557             4,955
IL            279              952              673          8,076           2,557              5,519
15            280            1,005              725          8,700           2,557             6,143
16            282            1,057              775          9,300           2,557             6,743
17            282            1,080              79b          9,576           2,557              7,019
18            283            1,1Q5              822          9,864           2,557              7,307
19            283            1,133              850         10,200           2,557              7,643
20            o84            1,164              86o         10,560           2,557              8,003
1J Increase in visitors restricted to take into account existing capacity of parks.
Includes capital and recurrent costs as well as transfer paymente to rancherE estimatea
at Ksh .5 million in year 2, Ksh 1.0 in year 3 andi Ksh 1.5 million thereafter.
May 7, 1971                                                                                                         ch



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
CoSG£ of Project Co-ordination Unit-1
Koh I 000
_   Project Years
Foreign
IJnit Cost      1             2             3                         Total       Exchange %
Capital
Cari/                          40.0         (2)  80.0                                                  80.0        80
Office Equipment               10.0         (1)  10.0                                                  10.0       I0
90.0                                                 90.0         -
Recurrent
ProJect Co-ordinator            70.0         (1)  70.0    (1)  70.0    (1)  70.0    (1)  70.0          2&0.0         -
hsst. rroject Uo-ordinator   150.0           (1) 150.0    (1) 150.0    (1) 150.0    (l) 15n.o 6r.                   7
Financial AnalyEt              45.0          (1)  h5.0    (1)  4s.0    (1)  45.0    (1)  45.o          180.0
$ecret.X..ry                   816.0         (13)  16.u    (1)  lo.u    (1)  1b.u    (1)  lb.0         116.0         _
Clerical Officer               11.6         (1)  11.6    (i)  11.6    (1- 11.6    (1)  11.6            46.4          _
Office Expenses                10.0         (1J)  10.     (1)  10.0    (1)  10.0    (1)  10.0           4O.0         _
Vehicles Expenses              I5.          (i)  15-^    (1)  15.0    (1)  15.0    (1)  15.0           60.0         50
312.6         312.6        312.6          312.6    1,250.4
Total cost during Project period                                                               1,340.4
1/ One vehicle replaced at start of year 5.
hay 9, 1974



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs..Qf Pro.ject E-valuation Investigati.onal Work andi Technical Training
Ksb '000
Proiect Years
Foreign
1          2           3           4         Total     Exchange %
Project Evaluation
and Monitoring                        180.0       180.0       180.0       180.0        720.0       50
Investigational Researchl'               180.0       180.0       180.0       180.0        720.0       30
Project Preparation                                             360.0       360.0        720.0       50
Feasibility study - meat plants          360.0       360.0                                720.0       75
Education and Training-                    90.0       90.0        90.0        90.0        360.0       90
Overseas study3/                          36.0        36.0        36.0        36.0        144.0       30
846.0      846.0       846.0       846.0      3.384.0
I/ Research on ranch management techniques, supplementary feeds fert4.lizer response, improved forages and
legumes, and stock intensity.
2/ Being four fellowships, each for two years.
3/ Being studies relating to disease control.
May 7, 1974I



r EMA
S OON_l.IVEZTO)3T: DEVEI )P?M!- PROOECT
Costs of V'et>riLnarv Services
ksh '000"
_Pro'ect Ys, r
Forelgn
Unit       Un't C..t i3 _                                                                                 Tatal          ExchanRe X   5-on
Ca-Ital CbPP
qgBST- eTesting Unit!'           No.          153.0               (1) '53.0               -                   -                   -          153.0           90
Mob' .e Cr,ush                   No.            7.1               (1)   7*)               -                  -                   -             7.0           90          23.0
Subtctal                                                        163.2               _                   _                   _           160.0                      23.0
rastoral Are Z7                  No.
7ehilces  , ton                  No.           76.0               (?)  52.9          (7)  52.o           (2)  52.0                _          156.0           90          39.0
Seniicr Housing                  No.           90.7               (2) 38&.7)         (2) I50.7)          () 597.0                 -          540.0           40
Jurlor Hc,7ing                   sec           ?5.0                3)  75.)          (3)  75.3           (6) 150.0                _          10,0            10
L1Dor.,tory Rnits                sMt '1.0                        (1)  07,7           (5)  00.7           (1)  07.0                _          24J.0           90          24.0
Cmp ng Cenr                      No.                              (5'  1'Xr          )0)  7"/'                                                20.0           80
6 'Odos                                        50.0              (1) 5'~.7          (7)  ?0~                                     -           30.0            80         12.0
0)7.0 U            417.0              462.0                         1,286.0                       75.0
Tot-l O pitil                                                   567.0               417.0               462.0               -        1,446.0                       98.0
Fecurrent ClIPP
Luocrotory AssJstants           masx year       6.5               (33   19Y                19.5                19.5             19.5          76.0                       19.5
JAH                        3.2               (;)    3.2                 3.2                 3.2             3.2          12.8                        3.2
Dr; v r s                                       6.s               (    1) 13.0             13.9                13.0            13.0           52.0                       13.0
A71owanes                                       3.-               ()             2                             ?1.6      ?       l.6          86.4                       21.6
Test;rg Units roilntenince And
running costs                  49.0              (1) c.750.0                         LO          .0           50,          160.0           50          4n n
Subtotal                                                          "7.3                97.3                97.3            97.3         189.2                       97.3
P.stcral Are,s
Ve-.ar.nary OfJlcers            man year       36.0               (1)  3r.'           (7)  77.'          (3) 109.0           (3)  50a.1   324.0                   (3)  108.0
L£vestock Officers               man year      20.7               (1)   2.1           (2)  36.0           (3)  5.0           (3)   5L.o   162.0                  (3)   54.0
Animal health Assistants    man year           6.r              (3)  I?.5           (6)  39.0           (12) 78.0           (12)  78.0   214.5                  (12)  78.0
Driver:                         man year        6.5              (2)  13.D          (u)  26.0           (6)  39.0           (6)   39.0   117.0                   (6)   39.0
Alklowames            costs          "            .t              (7)  25.2           (110) 50.5         (215) 96.            (25)  86.5   248.4                  (24)  86.4
Veh-cle Mn'ntenance/andrunning 'chicle   '5.0                     (2)  30.0           (L)  60.0           (6)  99.0           (6)   90.0   270.0              50 (6)   90.0
Lob Exr,venses                      .           8.3                      3.0                1f.0               2,.0                 25J.0        72.0         50         24.0
Hocuse Meinten.nce 25  cost         _kl.s                                                                                            21.0    4240
I___. 7                 305.8               LO'.7               500.5  1,438.1                       500.4
Total Recurrent                         27?.0              y*                  'C597.7                                                   597.7
Total Recurrent             Total                                  A14-0                                                          .7                                699 
so
I/ 140bile laboratory and related equipment having a 7-year tle.
2/ 4-year life.
May 7, 19714



V NA
A,W > Ui.,1t,   !   ¢1in.cCe (Crporation
l'rieiZ I-,hlcll  ervlces.
t'roject Years                                Foreign
Unit       Unit Gos.~      l     _          _    _       2                                              ____ Total   Exchanage ^/ 5-on-
Cap~~~~~~~~~~~~U ital~                   ~s                                                       '                
Veh i cehleaicl                               30.0             (4) 120.0        ('  60.0          (3)  90.0             -               270 0       90         60.0
Office Equiptnent                SIt          60.0                _60.0          (1)  60.0M               -20-                                      40
100'.0           120.0              >t)3.)          -               390 .0                 60.0
Recurrent
Salaries ard a' llvwances
iection Head counterpart  rManl v.L '   lJ.0                  (1) IW.O.         (1) lo.0 J        (1) 100.0         ( ).0              400.0       40        100.0
I     '      !r.l i t )    * al1                         (11)  4L. )J      ( i-)  1 6.0;     (V.)  340.        ( A) 84(.11      2,400.0       i*0       840.0
itanch Te-hiiical OLfficer - an %i2.:   ho.0                   (      J.) a?0.0  (-  3200          (4)  320.2       (4) 320.06        1,280.0       40        320.0
'lerlcal Officers              .:.ivan %ar    10.0             (l)  '3,0         (2)  60.0         (')  90.0        (')  90.0           27U.0         -        90,0
2ecretaries                        iach       2j.              (2)   ,o.0        (1)  15.0        (4) 100.0         (4) 100.0           325.0        -        1(10.0
-ehicle  maintenance and running              15.0             (4)  60.0        (i;)  90.0        (Y) 13-.0         (9) 135.0           420.0       50        135.0
Office Expenses                              120.0             j) 1?2        _  .Q.0.0  0.0                                              480.0       20       120.0
920.0          1,245.0                 1, 7        1,705.&       5,575.0               1,705.0
a x
I/  hllese cusLs will phase out evenly over years 5-13 whenl all loans will have been phased out.
2i / ncludes one ranich technical officer and thiree accountants.
May 7, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 1
KENYA
SECOND LI -ESTOCK DEILOPMENT PROJECT
iPhasing of Investment Cost
(Ksh million)
Year       '       2        3         4       5       Total
-tinrh development*                  56.1    87.6    101.0    48.5    14.0    307.4
e-eat crocessing                       -                          -        -
'.i,dlife development                 5.6     7.4      54        6.3     -        24.7
Ranae water development              15.9      7.7      8.8       -        -       32.4
Veterinary services                   1.1.    1.3       1.5       1.0     -         5.2
Project Co-ordination Unit              .6      .5       .5        .6               2.2
Livertock marketing                  24.2      9.1      5.4                        38.7
aeEearch and technicai -ervices       1.1      1.3      1.5       1.6     -         5.5
A.-;.'.,. co tE                        1.5     3.0      3.0       2.9      -       '0.L
Total                        106.1   118.1   127.b       6C.9    14.0    h26.5
*ilnnh de:elopment commitments will be as follows:
Year     1      2      3     b      5    Total
"Ir)up               20    20    20    -       -       6o
orr!pal!y             7      7     7    -      -       21
GoinmerciaL          h0    30    30    -       -      100
Feedlote              1      1     1    -      -        3
April 23, 1974



AWNEC 8
KENYA
,C10[D i ?h'TCC, DOT.lOPMENT PROJECT
,&tinated Schedule of Disbursement
Us$1'C000
IDA FiFca1 Year
and Quarter end        Di-burFemant        Balance
19Th /7;
December                 800               20,700
Ma rc-h                1,80C               18,900
June                   1,?800              17,100
1975/76
Suptenmber             1,900               15,200
December               1,500               13 700
F-arch                 2,100               11,600
June                   2, C0                9,500
1916/77
S-eptember             2,200                7,300
December               1, 00                5,800
?March                 1,000                4,800
June                   1,000                3,800
-eptember              l,J00                2,100
December               1,000                1,400
March                    200                1,200
June                     200                1,000
'978/79
september                200                  800
December                 200                  600
March                    ?00                  hO0
June                     200                  200
I979/80
September                200



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Finance Corporation
Prolect Cash Flow
Ksh  million
Total
Years                  1          2           3           4           5           6           7            a            9           10            11           12              13-20
Source of Funds
Covernrment loan-                        40.4        72.2        83 .3      39.4        11.3          -          -            -             -            -            -             '
Interest on ranch loans                   1.6         9.0       15.6        17.5        14.5                                   -            -            -
Ranch loar - annuities                    -           -           -          16.6       32.2        49.5        49,5         49.5         49.5          49.5         32,7          17. 1
rotal Sources                     42.0        81 .2       98.9        73,5      158.0        49.5        49.5         49.5         49.5          49.5         32.7         17.1
Total Sources
Jse of Fun-Is
Ranch loans                              40.1        72.0        83.2        39,4        11.3         -           -                         -            _      -                   -
Interest on Government loan                .7         2.8         5.3        6.5         6.9 9--
Governmsent loan - annuity               -            -           -           -                     20,6        20.6          20.6         20.6         20,6         20.6          20.6          165.3
Operating costs and reserves              1.2         4.9         4.6         3.8         3.4         2.9         2.6          2.3          2.0          1.7           1.4          1.1            -
Total Uses                      42.0        79. 7       93.1        49. 7       21.6        23.5        23.2         22,9          22. 6        22. 3        22.0         '1.7           165.3
Cash sur-lus/(deficit) annual             -           1.5         5.8        23.8        36.4        26.0        26.3         26.6         26.9         27.2         10.7          (4.6)        (165.3)
Cumsulative        -           1.5         7.3        31.1        67.5        93.5       1i9.8        146.4        173.3        200.5         211.2        206.6            41.3
1/  For ranch development and AFC capital investments  3Z annual interest, and capital repayment grace period of five years.
April 24, 1974
12v



KENYA
SECOSJD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIn-ncial Rates of Return
Koh '0008
Model                Years       1~.,        2             a              .             5            6            7            8             9            10            11           12          13-20
Grouv Ranches
sales                              102.1        230.5         288.9         311.6        474.3        467.5        479.9         491.9        491.9        491.9         491.9        491.9        491.9
Op e..tig Cnst.                    122.8        200.1         189.4         237.6         171.5        216.1        156.1        156.1        156.1         156.1        156.1        156.1         156.1
Innnstwuet                         343.0        437.4         209.8          -             -             -            -            -                          -            -
Net Dlancl .                     (383.')        407.0        (309.')         74.0        302.8        251.4         323.8        335.8        335.9        335.8         335.8        335.8        335.8
Financial race ot return 237.
Conp-ny Ranches
Sales                              107.2        262.3         252.2         590.2         768.2        728.6        669.8        608.8        600.1         587.4        555.8        555.8         555.8
OperatinS Costa                    153.1        15Q.b         457.7         542.6        442.7        438.1         308.6        248.1        217.9         172.5        232.8        172.8         172.8
In-est-ent                        811.3         388.8         462.0
Net  alance                     (657.2)      (325.3)       (66, 5)          47.6        325.5        290.5        361.2        360.7         382.2        414.9        323.0         383.0        383.0
F-nancial rate of return 157.
Cono-rci.l Ranches
Sales                              194.8        102.5         310.5         302.1         265.8        238.5        229.9        229.9        229.9         229.9        229.9        229.9         229.9
Operating costs                     80.1        214.9         209.8         162.5         122.1        137.0        107.0        107.0        107.0         107.0        107.0         107.0        107.0
Inve-t-ent                         629.8        282.7           -              -            -                  -             -                   -                         -           -              -
Net 5B1ance                       515.1)      (395.1)       (100.7)         139.6        143.7        101.3        122.9        122.9         122.9        122.9        122.9         122.9        122.9
Fleanclal rete of return 127.
Feedl.ts
Sales                               -         4,560.0        4,560.0       4,560.0      4,560.0    4,560.0         4,560.0      4,560.0      4,560.0      4,560.0       4.560.0    4,560.0        4.560.0
Operating cost                    1,570.0    35754.0         3.754.0      31754.0       3.754.0    3.754.0         3,754.0      3.754,0      3,754.0       3,754.0      3,754.0    3,754.0         3,754.0
lnves.nent                       2,906.0        307.0                          -             -           -                                                                 -           -
Net Balance                      (4,476.0)       499.0    8 00.0              606.0        806.0       806.0         06.0         806.0         806.0    8    06.0        806.0        806.0         806.0
FinancIal rnce of teturn 167.
Live.tcck Marketing
Sales                          25 780.0    30,960.0        38,340.0      42,240.0    46,160.0    46,160.0    46,160.0    46,160.0    46,160.0    46,160.0    46,160.0    46,160.0    46,160.0
Operating coits                21,900.0      27,060.0      33,580.0      36,500.0    39,720.0    39,720.0    39,720.0    39,720.0    39,720.0    39,720.v             39,720.0    39,720.0    39,770.0
l-vesto,ot                     16,482.0       5,492.0       2,996.0       2,996.0      2,996.0       2,996.0      2,996.0      2,996.0       2,996.0      2,996.0      2,996.0      2,996.0       2,996.0
Net Balanne                    (12,602.0)    1,592.0        1,764.0       5,740.0       5,440,0      6,440.0      6,440.0      6,440.0       6,440.0      6,440.0       6,440.0      6,440.0      6440 0
Financial rate of rnturn 18I
Wildlife
Revenue                          300.0          636.0       1,020.0       1,440.0       1,920.0      2.460.0      3,072.0      3,732.0      4,368.0       4,956.0      5,820.0      6,828.0       7,512.0
Op.rating costs                  360.0          122.5         28.            54B3       4.557.0      7,557.0      2,557.0      2,557.0       2,557.0      2,557.0       2,557.0      2,557.0      2,55.7.0
Invest-ent                     3,584.0       4.904,0        2,350.0       2,63O0.
Net Balance                   t3,644.0)      (5.,493.C    (3,162.0)    (3,627.0)        (637.0        <97.0)       515.0      1.175.0       1,811.0      2,399.0       3,763.0      4,271.0      4,955.0
Financial rate of return 15'
May 9, 1974



ANNEX 11
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysiu
Incremental Output
1.        The Project is estimated to increase cattle production by about
140,000 animals by 1985 (Annex 3), and the average cold dressed carcass
weight is expected to increase from 140 kg to about 167 kg per animal. The
incremental meat production is estimated at 23,000 m tons. The time trend
for incremental production assuming no increase outside the Project is sum-
marized below; the details are given in Table 1.
Incremental Production
1973      1978      1985
Incremental cattle supply ('000 head)           -         48        140
Total beef production ('000 m ton)              43        50        fk6
Incremental over 1973 (t000 m ton)              -          7         23
Economic Rate of Return
2.        The economic analysis is based on the following adjustment to the
financial analysis:
a) Price contingencies are excluded from the cost estimates;
b) Unskilled labor which accounts for about 30% of operating
costs and 2.5% of investment costs is valued at 50% of the
market rate to reflect the estimated underemployment
situation;
c) Foreign exchange costs and benefits (exportable beef) are
valued at KshlO per US$ to reflect the scarcity value of
foreign exchange;
d) Production is valued at international prices adjusted for
transport cost; and
e) Benefits from the wildlife development component of the
Project cannot be quantified accurately becauise of the
difficulty of estimating the associated benefits from
tourism. As an approximating, however, the benefits from



ANNEX 11
Page 2
wildlife have a,een assumed to be those that would accrue
if instead of game parks, group ranches were developed on
the area as an alternative use of land. Any incremental
benefits from wildlife aevelopment over and above this
lower limit are, therefore, not included.
3.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return was
estinated to be 25x; the calculations are given in Table 2; the basic data
for this Table was obtained from Annexes 3, 6, and 7. In order to test
the sensitivity of the rate of return to a number of variables, it was also
estimated under the following alternative assumptions:
Resulting effect on
Alternative                                 Rate of Return
Gross Benefits decreased by 10%             18. - 7%
Investment Costs increased by 10%           23% - 2%
Investment costs increased by
10% and benefits decreased by 10%           17% - 8%
Income Distribution Impact
4.        The Project concentrates mainly or, rural pastoral areas.  In the
development of 131 ranches the Project would directly affect about 10,000
families (50,000 individuals) and increase their cash incomes from about
Ksh400 (US$56) per annum to about Kshl,360 (US$190) per annum in ten years.
The Northeast water development schemes would benefit the owners
of about 200,000 cattle. Assuming that per capita ownership is about 5
cattle, the Project would benefit about 40,000 individuals, increasing
their cash incomr.; from US$56 per annum to about US$80 per annum in ten
years. Details are given in Table 4.
Beef Pricing and Income Distributio.
5.        Beef prices in Kenya are presently controlled at the retail,
wholsale and producer levels. Government required that prices paid by
KMC should follow published schedules, which may be revised from time to
time. The producer schedules for 1972 are given below:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
KMC Producer Price Schedule (1972)
Grade                Producer Price                  US cents/lb/CDW
Ksh/kgICDW /1
Prime                     4.70                              30
Choice                    4.45                              28
FAO P /1                  4.20                              27
R 7                   3.18                              20
Standard P                3.15                              20
R                2.65                              17
Commercial P              2.80                               18
R              2.30                              15
Manufacturing             1.50                               10
/1   Cold Dressed Weight.
T2   P - Passed
7i   R - Retained (measles).
With the present livestock marketing system, the on-range price
for a 250 kg animal is about Ksh250 or Kshl/kg/liveweight. The low producer
prices have discouraged cattle production and the low retail prices have en-
couraged beef consumption. The combined effect of these two factors has been
to reduce the potential export surplus from Kenya and transfer incomes from
poorer rural producers to wealthier urban consumers.
The Project requires that producer and consumer prices be de-
controlled; this should help transfer income from urban to rural areas.
Beef Pricing and Beef Export Surplus
6.        As well as creating surpluses for export, the incresental pro-
duction is expected to meet the growing domestic demand for beef. Estimates
of total production, domestic consumption and exports are given in Table 1.
The average per capita consumption of beef for the non-agricultural popu-
lation is about 13 kg per annum. If per capita consumption is maintained
at this level (by pricing policy and by encouraging the substitution of
small stock meat for beef), the exportable surplus is estimated at 4,000 m
and 15,000 m tons in 1978 and 1985 respectively.
If, however, per capita consumption rises from 13 kg to 16 kg by
1985 (2% annually), the incremental exportable surplus would show a deficit
of 500 m tons in 1978 and a surplus of 3,000 m tons in 1985. Beef pricing
policy is of major importance, and the estimate of net foreign exchange
savings is based on the assumption that beef prices will be decontrolled.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Net Foreign Exchange Earnings
7.        The net foreign exchange benefits are the revenues from the
incremental export of beef and beef products minus the foreign exchange
content of investment and operating costs (Table 4). The Project would
produce about 4,000 m tons of beef annually for export by 1978, but addi-
tional investments in processing capacity would be needed if this target
is to be exceeded. Based on an average export price of US$1,000 per m tcn
and foreign exchange costs per ton of 40% of export price,. the incremental
foreign exchange earnings would be US$1 million and US$7 million in 1978 and
1985 respectively.
Prospects for Beef Exports
8.        KMC production and sales for the period 1966 to 1972 are summarized
below:
Production and Disposal of Beef.by KMC /1
X of      Z of
Total    Local           Exports             Production  Export
Production  Sales   Chilled/Frozen  Canned    Exports    Canned
m tons -
1966         27.9       13.3       2.85          11.7      52.3        80.4
1967          31.4      14.7       3.45          13.3       53.3       79.4
1968         30.4       16.6       3.38          10.5       45.6       75.6
1969          27.5      15.4       1.53          10.6       44.2       87.3
1970          29.40     16.3 2    1.90/2         11.2       39.9       85.3
1971         26.5       It.l.l/    2.36.-L       13.1       58.2       84.7
1972 (est)   27.5       U.5        2.50           9.5      43.6        79.2
/1  Source:  Economic Survey 1972 Page 69
7T  From KMC Records
Canned corned Ieef averaged about 80% of total beef exports during 1966-72.
The quantity of chilled/frozen beef has averaged about 2,600 m tons over
the sane period. For the past two years, an effort has been made to diver-
sify Kenya's product mix and to increase exports of chilled and frozen beef.
Kenya has developed a number of new markets for chilled and frozen meat and
the quantities exported (Table 5) and prices realised (Table 6) are given
for the period 1970 through 1972. The bulk of chilled and frozen meat ex-
ports have been made in small quantities by air, and the average price fob
Mombasa has been about US$900 per ton as indicated below:



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
Destination   Mode of    cif             Freight     Price
Transport  Destination  Charge         fob/Hombasa
(1972)
----US$/m ton-------------
Libya              Air      1,450       476            974
Arabian Gulf       Ship    1,120        140            980
Rotterdam /1       Ship       878       120            758
Hong Kong          Ship    1,047        112            935
/1   Mainly for Ship handling.
The prices received are comparable to prices received in the European
markets 1/ and it is expected that the price differential between European
and non-European markets is likely to remain insignificant in the foreseeable
future. The Livestock Working Party 2/ indicated that Kenya can only supply
about 40 percent of its current demand from existing export outlets.
I/   1970 cif prices for some European countries are:
US$/M ton
cif           fob/Mombasa
Italy            1,200             1,060
Switzerland      1,270             1,130
Greece             900               760
2/   Task force commissioned by the Kenya Government to ntudy the livestock
and meat situation in Kenya. Report published in January 1971.
April 2(., 19'tl7



SUMON   L±VEST±1  DEVEO"BOS' OSOJECT
produotton         Oon-Onrtcs±14utaI  ponolatto,                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B-et Con....tIIo                           E--ot SurnIot
beet    ttoiogan              Cona±.oo±ion  ~~~~~~~~(Not)           Al trnative.i            A;t! ..t ti-1.t
In-emo-l               A-nen                  oA  e                                                        ira  o               osmdb                  f Bent                ±Y the'n.e
aoAet11               0o.5.0.0               et      2                              tt                   Foo   ±ni            NnuooO-                                              ot                              enlmne
Yc-           ±uo7                   P-t Ani-a            Produ-ed.              Tt.O/a            1oS-te                            ~         o.t0)                n  on  n"              PoltinTt                              On 973                  (bn1973.
±973    -                   0±4~          ~         ~~~~~~0 43         2. 374                                                         31.0                    -5                                                             
±94                         0:.i4't                   44                2.490            2.42±                0.09                      2.                   .77                   31.43                     1127        2 57                      0.0'
1975            i5                   0±42                      4.5               7.392           2I40                    ±                      33.1~                1.59                   32:i1                    12.89        0.89                     tOt),
±96     27                   0±45                      42               2 209             2.5±901                                       15.                  2.13.7                                           427         22                         .35
±97'7           39                   0.147                     49                 .3±             2.5±0                0. 20±                   36933 3bi±.9                                                                      35                        0.16
i90     '8                   0.150                     s0                2958             2.62±                f1.1237                  3 0.5                 .3                    334±2                    l±5.9.       3.5,9                    (0. 1±
1979            59                   0.1±2                     52                3.092            2.674                0.46                     .02                  5.43                   3'4.77                   17.23        3 .283                   (0.33)
190     70                   7.1/i3'                                     3.23             2.12±                1±0.54'.0                                     6. 55                  35.4,                    I0.5         6.33                      0.09
±98±1           8±                   0±167                     56                3.376            20±0.094                                      43.9                 7.72                   36.1                     ±9.S2        7.92                      0.4±1
±9021           95                   0.10                      50                3.28             2.37                  0.691                   45.6                  .99i                  36. 92                   21.19        9.50                      0.65
±93            ± 07                  0.03                      60                 .0              2.894                 0. 703                  47.4                ±0.3±                   37.59                    22.It       ±0.4±                      0.43
±904           124                   0±161                     63                3.963            2.950911                                      30.2                ±1.4                    39.36                    24.6        12.61                       .0
±985           ±40                   0.1676                                     4.03±             3.101122                                      52.'4               ± 3.26                  39.14                    26.966      ±4.86                      276
1/  Se- A-, I 3  -Or  'Itle  "Illy pnoto
Up'1±yb]i.hod BAO reo  .         I.  ..u..t.            n-aoto  00    op  0±0   cpron    futa   op  o  o    i  tncoaof-o  17.5. in 197 3 to ±.17. fo 1995.
Tho no -.ogot -lu   ±p.ps 1nton In 1973 i.  b.ntu  2.374  miiio. .pl lcd g~th  -tat  in 4.37. pnannl h06±h  ±-uid-s tht in- -ce  fr-  isigetlos mbt 2.30  peoanum
6/  AesnC±36gc-s/on.amnd  oey                              SI"'   Ioe   -0±I5  ±981.
I/    __na   Oi_n .± beet in coa&o .o±slon±   gupi,. So oo-  35 kg/oapi-O; onf....n -tineSyaumd t±3A/pi.
1.6  . p   - aso.
O Coid dre..g.d I. oa-  or tghn.
±90y 9. 1974



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
(Ksh million)
I. Market Prices
1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8       9      1O-h)
Incremental Costs
Capital cost                   37     32     23 17            4
Recurrent cost   1/            29     Lb     7c      96     99    .89      8L      82      £1      fin
Replacement cost -                -           -      -       -       2       2      3       3        3
Total cost                    66      80     99    113    103       91     86      85      8L      83
Tncremental Benefits
Ranch development               9     18      37     47      60     66      70      70     70       70
Livestock marketing            26     31      38     42     46      46      46     46      46       46
Water development:
Isiolo                       0.4    0.8    1.2    1.7    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4           2.4
N.E.                         0.4    0.8    1.2    1.7    2.4    2.h    2.4    2.4    2.4           2.4
Total benefits                 35.8   50.6   77.4   92.4  110.8  135.8  120.8  120.8  120.8   120.8
Incremental Net Cash Flow        (30.2) (29.L) (21.6) (20.6)   7.8   25.8   3L.8   35.8   36.8    37.8
Rate of return                 21,
II. Shadow Prices
Rate of return                 25%
1/  As an annuity at 10%.                                                                                            z
2/  Foreign exchange costs and benefits revalued at this shadow exchange rate of Ksh 10 per US$
Unskilled valued at 50% of market wage rate.
May 3, 19Th



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Distribution Effect of the Project
Water Development in the
Northeast and Isiolo Provinces                                  Ranch Development
Incremental    Popuiation      Incremental            Incremental     Population          Incremental
Year     Income          Affected    Income/Capita/Annum       Income           Affected      Income/Cagita/Annum
A              B              A/B                     C                D                C/D
Ks!h 'OOOs                    Ksh                 Keh 'OOOF'                            KFh
1           776            40.0 -           19
2         1,568            40.7             38                  6,758              10                676
3         2,h00            41.5             58                 14,631              23                640
4         3,360            42.3             80                 27,359              35                770
5         4,880            43.0            U13                 39,952              51 -/             780
6         6,500            43.8            1483                50,322              52                970 /
1/ Assumes that an average 5 cattle are owned per person; about 200,000 cattle are expected to be affected by
the water development - 100,000 each in Isiolo and the Northeast Province respectively. The human
population is assumed to increase by 2% per annum.
2/ All ranches in by year 5. 60 group ranches, with an average of 70 families per ranch or 4,200 families or
21,000 persons and all group ranches; 21 Company and Co-op ranches, with average of 50 families and ranch
or 5,250 persons and all company ranches; 100 commercial ranches, 50 families and ranch, 25,000 and all
company ranches or 51,250 persons.
3/ Equivalent to US$21.
v   Equivalent to US$136
MaY 3, 197hi



KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimate of Net Foreign Exchange Eamings
(Ksh'000)
Foreign Exchange Costs Y                           Foreign Exchange Benefits _/
Year        Capital         Recurrent/Replacement       Total               Total            Net Flow
1              20,h51             5,763                26,214                  _              (26,214)
2              28,758            12,005                40,763                  -              (40,763)
3             27.161             16,515                43,676                  -              (43,676)
4               4,580            21,808                31,388                 21,826          ( 9,562)
5               2,229            22,921                25,150                 31,119            5,969
6                _               22,519                22,519                 28,850            6,331
7                -               21,557                21,557                 28,850            7,293
8                _               21,763                21,763                 28,850            7,087
9                -               21,5LO                21,540                 28,850            7,310
10                                21,351                21,351                 28,850            7,499
11                                21,396                21,396                 28,850            7,454
12-40                             21,396                21,396                 28,850            7,454
1/ From Project cost estizates; 56% foreigrA exchange in capital cost and 20% foreign exchange in recurrent cost.
2/ Foreign exchange earning from export of beef.
May 3, 197h



ANNEX 11
Table 5
KFNYA
SECONT) LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports of Chilled and Frozen Meat
(m tons
Destination                 1970              1971            Jan-Sept
1972
Tripoli   .                  430               888               927
Hong.Kong                    803               822               514
Aden                         h0                 30                12
Burundi                       59                 4
India                         14                15                  3
Ghana                         16
Mahe (Seychelles)             12                10
Holland                       24               162               233
Hamburr,                      15                 5                18
Liberia                        1                                   4
Tanzania                     224               187                 50
Arabian Gulf                 132               124                 82
KinshashR                      2                                 255
M.auritius                    16                10                  7
Dunkirk                       35                37
Gibraltar                    108
Parif                                                             30
U.K.                                                                5
Swift                                                             203
Bujumbra                                        60                48
Zurich                                           0.5                0.4
Antwerp                                        34                  72
Total                      1,931            2,388              2,463
May 3, 1914



ANNEX 11
Table 6
KENYA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average cif Price for
Chilled and Frozen Meat
(US$/M ton)
1970             1971             1972
(Jan.-Sept.)
Arabian Gulf              1,471             1,705            1,508
Antwerp                     ^                 892            1,006
Aden                      1,271             1,255            1,458
Bombay                      938             1,002            1,283
Buruadi                   1,384             1,3h6
Bujumbra                                    1,442            1,421
Dar-es-Salaam               514               582              585
Hamburg                   1,008             1,593            1,397
Hong Kong                    785              853            1,062
Kinshasha                 1,471
Liberia                   3,241                             2,720
Mauritius                 1,107               862            1,100
Mahe                        985             1,144
Paris, Dunkirk              782             1,057              914
Rotterdam                   685 I/          1,000              910
Tripoli                   1,259             1,403            1,494
1/ For ship chandling.
May 63, 1974



KENYA
SECOND SMALLMOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE COF PORATION
Reorganization Proposed for July 1973
LerSe~ ~~~~~~~~~ SmallCalmJ 
I~~ ~~~~                                ~ ~~~ ~~ ~~                                                                                                 ~         ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n pes I I  trmanr 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Py' .- I
2o S t p-oeritd by AID
StaI ttetiore-npnt ts Wh.c" IDA Teylhnrc.l A-simt.. .t ProposedI *SC
I.-o Depa-t Head ICred,I E.Cdrt  
IF--naniarl Controller
I Mactue Controler (Compute & System  EsPerll
I t rornrcg OlSnrl
Area Sr-Sror ICrcd-l Enp-t
V-   -3 r   Ic be tIled tfBr-h O                                                                    AID
W.- San- OntS2 -



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DRVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
MiNfISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL HUSEANDRY
KENYA                                    PROJECT                                 MINISTRY OF
MEAT     -… -MANAGEMENT …-                                                       El WILOURISM
UNIT                                   * WtL0LIPE
COMMISSION
MAEAT                           -           j                                     WIDLOLFE
PI ROCESSING    |      .      --                -OEVELOPMENT
-.04
--                                       I  s
RANGE          LIVESTOCK                                                                         DEPARTMENT OF       WVATER
MANAGEMENT       MARKETING                               AGhIVULTURAL                                VETERINARY      DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION        DIVISION                                  FINANCE                                   SERVICES        DEPARTMENT
(MINISTRY OF    (MINISTRY OF                              CORMORATION                               (MINISTRY OF     (MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE)   AGRICULTURE)                                                                         AGRIUCLTURE)    AGRICULIUREi
RANGE
AFC RANCH                                                    WATER
SECiION                                                |DIVISON
ANCILLARY        LIVESTOCK         GOPCMAY                        IANCILLARtY                                        RANGE WATERI
RANGE         MOVEMENT                                          COMMERCIAL          FEEOLOT       VETERINARY       SURVEY AND
SERVICES       & MARKETING        RANCHES       COOPERATIVE                                          SERVICES       DEVELOPMENT
Wold Smk-7704
April 27. 1973



IBRD 10311R
AML WU
SUDAN                         -7  
4UKE StLfANI
/                                               ~~~~~~~~~~E T H  I 0  P I~ A
4'                                        N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
N,
t.    (;t   t                                               AuX~N                                                  /
U G              - A N D*
T.".pw.                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
loK.,KoI9,K
SCN          IE    CK  PROJECTol.
E;st. '-oc \vte                  A  K3u  h C heedk oc      ~                                                                      i
E., S        r retff-         <3       ul                               S KM                            1    /                   ie
,-,,    Ipo 1, ,t, tqpnuo                            FHx^               .de  
,_ l .(co.    -         °,CV]O ocAee
~~~~~~~~~~~~.Itrointbouiel                                                                                                           KENYA \ 
.0~~~~~~~~~~4
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT             i                  \F
(ttwor ~    ~       ror IO,DO oct*  -                     
2~~~~~~~~~~. 11                                                                                                  Lor{,O/hlrld  -   7_
~~~~ot. o     KE Y                 \          T. Af, ic,,,
Emst"   ~          -*-  Inbtrstd bktrb KNL cw                                                                                 t ENY
Om, 100                   W0m          4S                                                               eb 
o 0 Loa(,00  a )O               main r00  t 0    7N1.__
cl~   ~ swil(20/EtlS  NoHtm co
o  MO]"su_1                                                               '°'               Afr       



1I3RD- 10312l
S U D  Al N       :                    -      -     .  S   :     --  -:     -:. *            ;: - 
. '> '/'      >         $>IA           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E   T: H   I  O0   P  I1  A              
A~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -t -s  - - '; - -- -' - -  ,-
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,  .  ...   . -   ,_ - Li - - -/   
:W     TE                                            . . . ,, . . .o . .. ,
-   r  .            .          -d   .     .   :: :  X::  ::::::R  '-No  $  
Tsz. Ae N  Z- AI KI PI A   . C:  e .
RANGE  , t TAND: RANHDVELOMN                                                             0 CE  /V
d 64c 0*KN  
0    ;    SECOND LI£STOCK PROJETO  :                  tow"im/~//t
RANGE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AN  rAC   DEEOMN  c-<s:         CA
.1o' , .-  w,mo *>4 am                                                                     KENY .
P,--    ftut*    Of ret  m*/ 
Q, d     pl d  w C .WOWF  tonel}\\t/X+'r
------S     .     m,: k,wA) E .0_:' so
Ob_dt>w7        PaDr    .                <   : . . . }             i  l f C ,>\jV~~~~~~~~~3'



