CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 477 KE
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 477 KE
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
0
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called AFC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million five hundred thousand dollars
($21,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that AFC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and AFC, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AFC on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AFC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth; and
(a)  the term  "Ranching Project" means the Ranch Development and
Feedlots component of the Project.
(b)  the term "Beneficiaries" means the private investors involved in the
Ranching Project.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AFC shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. AFC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
AFC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.03. AFC shall relend the proceeds of the Loan under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to Beneficiaries of the Ranching Project, and make sub-loans on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the
operating policies and procedures set forth in the Annex to this Agreement, as
the same may be amended by agreement among the Borrower, the Association
and AFC.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AFC shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of sub-loans to be used
exclusively for the Ranching Project until its completion.
Section 2.05, AFC shall cause the Beneficiaries to (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Ranching Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loans,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Ranching Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Ranching Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Ranching Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the sub-loans
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. AFC shall cause the Beneficiaries to take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect
of such land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Ranching Project.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) AFC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
(b)   AFC shall establish and maintain a separate project account to be used
exclusively for the Ranching Project and shall record in it all receipts and payments
for or in connection with the Ranching Project, including (i) amounts received
from, and payments made to, the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and (ii) amounts disbursed to, and received from, Beneficiaries under sub-loans.
Section 3.02. AFC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
including separate accounts and financial statements of the AFC Ranch Section
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of Beneficiaries and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Association and AFC shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and AFC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of the AFC and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 4.02. The Association and AFC shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of


﻿6
them of its obligations under this Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower
and AFC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. AFC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of beneficiaries ane any relevant
records and documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of AFC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify AFC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other


﻿7
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AFC:
The Agricultural Finance Corporation
P.O. Box 30367
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
KENAGBAN
Nairobi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of AFC may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person
or persons as the AFC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The General Manager shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the General Manager, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by AFC pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
THE AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ Leonard O. Kibinge
Authorized Representative


﻿9
ANNEX
General Lending Terms and Conditions
and AFC's Lending Procedure
The following terms and conditions shall be used in implementing the
Ranching Project and shall not be altered without the prior agreement of the
Association:
Onlending Terms
(a)   AFC shall onlend to ranchers and feedlot operators charging at least
8% per annum for ten years including three years of grace during which
interest only shall be paid.
(b)   Ranchers and feedlot operators shall be required to contribute a
minimum of 20% of their investment costs.
Procedures
Before AFC's final approval of investment plans each proposal will
be reviewed and approved by the Project Coordination Unit.
Investment
(a)   Ranches. Investments under Ranches may without limitation include
farm roads, water development, firebreaks, stock dipping and handling
facilities, housing and incremental working capital, including finance
for purchase of breeding stock and steers and funds to cover operating
expenses.
(b)   Feedlots. Items financed will include cattle yards, feed storage, feeding
facilities and feed handling equipment, pasture development, farm
machinery and incremental working capital.


