CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 477 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 477 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Government of the United States of
America (hereinafter called USA) to make available for Parts A and C of the Project
financing in an aggregate principal amount of not less than seven million three
hundred thousand dollars ($7,300,000) on terms and conditions to be agreed upon
between the Borrower and USA; the terms and conditions of disbursement of the
financing allocated to Part A of the Project to be set forth in an administration
agreement to be entered into between USA and the Association;
(C)   The Borrower has requested the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (hereinafter called UK) to make available
for Part D of the Project financing in an aggregate principal amount of not less
than one million four hundred and forty thousand Pounds Sterling (Z1,440,000)
on terms and conditions to be agreed upon between the Borrower and UK;
(D)   The Borrower has requested the Government of Canada (hereinafter
called Canada) to make available for Parts B and F(i) of the Project financing
in an aggregate principal amount of not less than two million four hundred thousand
Canadian dollars (Can$2,400,000) on terms and conditions to be agreed upon
between the Borrower and Canada;
(E)   The Borrower and the Association have agreed that the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (hereinafter called AFC), a statutory corporation established
by the Agricultural Credit Act of 1963, and reconstituted under the Agricultural
Finance Corporation Act (No. 1 of 1969) will execute Part A of the Project, and
for such purpose the Association has agreed to enter into a project agreement
with AFC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower; and
(F)   The Association has agreed on the basis of the foregoing to make a
credit to the Borrower for the Project in an aggregate principal amount in various


﻿4
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million five hundred thousand dollars
($21,500,000) on the terms and conditions herein set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and AFC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)   "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation or any successor
thereto;
(c)   "LMD" means the Livestock Marketing Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AFC, pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time; and
(e)   "Beneficiaries" means the private investors involved in Part A of the
Project.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred
to, a development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-one million five hundred thousand dollars ($21,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from   time to time, for expenditures made or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts
(excluding contracts entered into by Beneficiaries) exceeding $30,000 in value for
the provision of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be awarded on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972
and revised in October 1972, and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding fror time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 1
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August 1 commencing
February 1, 1984 and ending August 1, 2023 each installment to and including


﻿6
the installment payable on August 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 11%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   For the purpose of overall management and co-ordination in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain in its Ministry of
Agriculture a Project Co-ordination Unit with such responsibilities and powers as
set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and shall staff it adequately at all times.
The qualifications and experience of the Project Co-ordinator and of the Assistant
Project Co-ordinator shall be satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall
provide such Project Co-ordination Unit, promptly as needed, with such funds,
facilities and other resources as shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
The Borrower shall also provide adequate and suitable staff and equipment for
AFC, LMD, the Range Management Division, the Range Water Unit and the
Veterinary Department in its Ministry of Agriculture. In particular, the Borrower
shall employ staff to fill positions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Part A of the Project to AFC inder a subsidiary loan agreement,
to be entered into between the Borrower and AFC, upon terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association. The said terms and conditons
shall provide for a repayment period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5
years and an interest rate of 3% per annum.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the


﻿7
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provisions thereof.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AFC to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth; shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AFC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the items of the Project and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representative to examine
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project
Co-ordination Unit and, in respect of the Project, of the other departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.


﻿8
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the accounts and financial statements
of AFC including separate accounts and financial statements of AFC Ranch Section
and LMD to be audited at least annually, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and shall submit to the Association not later than six months following
the end of each fiscal year copies of such audited financial statements and a copy
of the report and certification of the auditors thereon.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   within one year of the date of this Agreement, present to the
Association a plan for a new grading and pricing structure for livestock marketing
relating live weight and grades to carcass value;
(b)   within three years of the date of this Agreement, phase out all price
controls in respect of the production, processing and marketing of beef and beef
cattle with the objectives of ensuring (i) the encouragement of production and
export of beef and beef products; (ii) the financial viability of cattle production;
and (iii) a reasonable allocation of investment resources in beef cattle and other
sectors.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause LMD to (i) set up a satisfactory
accounting system under an experienced accountant who shall establish financial
procedures and introduce cost accounting and control systems; (ii) conduct its
operations (including setting its scale of fees and charges at an adequate level)
to ensure that it covers its total cost of operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)   issue licenses for major additional meat processing plants after
consultation with the Association;
(b)   ensure that the Kenya Meat Commission will obtain and maintain
technical assistance from a suitably qualified firm or organization experienced in
international meat processing and marketing;
(c)   within one year of the date of this Agreement (or such earlier date
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association) employ consultants
to carry out a study for a future strategy for the meat processing industry, the
qualifications and experience of such consultants and the terms and conditions
of their employment to be satisfactory to the Association;


﻿9
(d)   pursuant to the recommendations of the consultants referred to in
(c) of this Section, ensure the construction of a meat processing plant to be located,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in the disease free zone and meeting
standards satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   consult with the Association on the appointments to the positions of
Heads of AFC Ranch Section, LMD, the Range Management Division and the Range
Water Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture;
(b)   prior to making any investment under Part E of the Project, provide
written confirmation to the Association that agreements have been reached with
cattle owners in the Amboseli and Masai Mara dispersal areas and the Nairobi Park
area (i) for the exclusion of livestock from the reserve areas, (ii) for the entry
of wild life to graze on ranch land and (iii) for the compensation of the cattle
owners commensurate with their loss of potential ranching income;
(c)   within one year of the date of this Agreement, submit for approval
to the Association proposals for carrying out census and monitoring studies,
including methods of air survey, data analysis and reporting results and conclusions.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by AFC of its obligations tinder the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition, resources and expenditures of AFC and, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿10
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of AFC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by AFC of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   AFC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of the Borrower or AFC under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the financing
to be made available by Canada, UK or USA shall have been suspended or the
Borrower shall have been unable to withdraw such proceeds, in whole or in part,
and the Borrower shall have failud to obtain funds from other sources in substitution
therefor.
(d)   The outstanding principal of the credit provided by Canada, UK or
USA shall have been declared, or become, due and payable in advance of the agreed
maturity thereof;
(e)   Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, unless the Association shall have otherwise agreed, the Borrower shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AFC or for the
suspension of its operations; or shall have amended the Agricultural Finance
Corporation Act in a manner substantially to alter the organisation, powers or
responsibilities of AFC;
(f)   Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, unless the Association shall have otherwise agreed, the Borrower shall


﻿12
have amended the Land (Adjudication) Act 1968 or the Land (Group
Representatives) Act 1968 in such a way as to affect adversely the ability of the
Borrower or of AFC to carry out their respective obligations under this Agreement
or under the Project Agreement; and
(g)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AFC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purpose of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and AFC;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and AFC; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of Section 7.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10,01(b) of the General Conditions namely, that.
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
AFC shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and AFC shall have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The financing arrangements of Canada, UK and USA in form and
substance all satisfactory to the Association (i) shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto, (ii)


﻿13
constitute valid and binding obligations of the parties thereto in accordance with
their respective terms, and (iii) conditions precedent to their effectiveness, save
for the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely,
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, AFC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of AFC in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and AFC and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and AFC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date September 5, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01(b), 4.05(a)
and (b) and 4.06(a) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date six years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya


﻿14
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUiLIC OF KENYA
By /s / Leonard 0. Kibinge
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office


﻿15
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Project
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Payment under sub-             16,000,000         50% of total
loans in respect                                  expenditures
of Part A
of the Project
II.  Part E of the                    800,000           50% of total
Project: Wildlife                                 expenditures
Development
II.  Part F of the                   400,000           100% of foreign
Project: Consult-                                 or 50% of total
ants and Technical                                expenditures
Services
IV.   Project related                 400,000          50% of total
Ministry of                                       expenditures
Agriculture
costs
V.   Project related                  400,000          50% of total
AFC costs                                         expenditures
VI.   Unallocated                    3,500,000
TOTAL              21,500,000


﻿16
2.    For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency of,
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made under any Category on account of expenditures incurred
after October 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$700,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or in the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
any percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefore will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contin -ncies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second phase of a long-term livestock development program
of the Borrower designed to increase beef production through ranch development,
meat processing and the improvement of infrastructure for livestock production.
The Project also provides for wildlife conservation and development. It has eight
parts.
Part A.    Ranch Development and Feedlots
A lending operation, to be administered by AFC, to provide sub-loans
for ranch development to the following three types of ranching
"enterprises" and feedlots.
(i)        About 60 group ranches located in Kajiado, Narok and
Samburu districts and established on adjudicated former
trust land held by groups of families under the Land
(Group Representatives) Act, 1968.
(ii)       About 20 company or cooperative ranches located mainly
on range land in Taita/Taveta, Tana, Kwale, Kilifi and
Kitui districts and established on land leased from
Government or on land with appropriate title.
(iii)      About 100 commercial ranches located in Nakuru,
Laikipia, Nyandarua and Machakos districts.
(iv)       The establishment of 3 feedlot- outside the disease-free
zone: two located in Narok and Kajiado, the third located
in Western Kenya.
Part B.    Range Water Development Scheme - Isiolo District
The development of about 3 million acres of range land in the Isiolo
district.
Part C     Range Water Development Scheme - North Eastern Province
The development of about 7 million acres of range land in North
Eastern Province.


﻿18
Part D.     Livestock Movement and Marketing
The development of: (i) five large (capacity 500 head/day) and 26
small (capacity 200 head/day) cattle markets on existing or new
holding grounds; (ii) three small markets for sheep and goats; and (iii)
about 30 new holding grounds with total area of 200,000 ha: and
the purchase of 5 cattle trailers (72 head/trailers), 20 cattle trucks
(32 head/truck) and 12 pick-up trucks.
Part E.     Wildlife
(i)         Amboseli and Masai Mara Park Development
The exclusion of livestock from the delineated Amboseli
Game Reserve and the Masai Mara Game Reserve, and the
allocation and supply of water from present sources within
the Reserves to cattle owners deprived of dry-season water
supplies as a result of the exclusion of cattle from them.
(ii)        Nairobi Park
The provision of infra-structure to extend Nairobi Park
Game Dispersal Area to include an additional 350 km2
contiguous to the said Park.
Part F.     Consultants and Technical Services
(i)         The provision of a census and monitoring unit to provide
(1) up-to-date baseline data on wildlife, livestock and
cultivation in pastoral areas; and (2) conclusions on
medium and long term policy implications with respect
to livestock and wildlife development.
(ii)        The provision of (1) supplemental supporting staff for
LMD; (2) supporting staff and equipment to meet the
operational needs of the Project; (3) office equipment,
vehicles   and   vehicle   operating   costs;   (4)   a
pleuropneumonia mobile testing unit; and (5) three
veterinary officers with supporting staff, housing, vehicles,
equipment and operating expenses.
(iii)       The engagement of consultants to assist the Borrower in
carrying out a feasibility study to determine strategy for


﻿19
the development of the meat-processing industry in Kenya
and to review the number, location and size of plants,
projected benefits in livestock movement, disease control
and producer prices.
(iv)       The training of Kenyan technical personnel through the
provision of overseas fellowships and study tours.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Project Co-ordination Unit
1.    The Project Co-ordination Unit, within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and under the direction of a full-time Project Co-ordinator, will be responsible
for the overall co-ordination and supervision of the Project, in cooperation with
the Borrower's Ministries and other agencies involved in the Project. The Project
Co-ordinator will report to the Director of Agriculture of the said Ministry but
is empowered to make all day-to-day decisions relating to the operation of the
Unit, including staff management.
2.    The Project Co-ordinator will be assisted by an Assistant Project Co-ordinator
and such supporting staff as may be required for the efficient carrying out of
the responsibilities of the Project Co-ordination Unit.
3.    The Project Co-ordination Unit will be responsible, inter alia, for the
following:
(a)   co-ordination and integration of all Project activities with the Ministries
and other agencies of the Borrower;
(b)   arrangements for and advice on the selection of consultants and other
specialists required for the Project;
(c)   arrangements for and decision on the selection of persons for training
under the Project;
(d)   evaluation of investment plans, as to technical, economic, ecological
and aesthetic suitability, before AFC final approval; and
(e)   Project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, including monitoring and
evaluation of the First Livestock Project, and including evaluation by
consultants, universities or other appropriate agencies employed by the
Project Co-ordination Unit.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Project Staffing Plan
(Cunulative)
Year
1        2        3        4
Project Co-ordination Unit
1.   Project Co-ordinator                            I        1        1        1
2.    Assistant Co-ordinator                         1        1        1        1
3.    Financial Analyst                              1        1        1        1
4.    Secretary                                      1        1        1
5.   Clerical Officer                                I        I        I        I
Range Management Division
1.   Assistant Range Officers                        1        2       4        6
2.    Range Assistants                               2        6       12       12
3.    Technical Assistants                           5        5        5        5
.           4.    Drivers                                        2        2        4        6
5.    General Staff                                  4        8       11       11
Staff Requirements for Ranch Planning
1.   Range Planners                                  2        2       2        2
2.   Assistant Range Officers                       12       12       12       12
3.    Range Assistants                              27       54       54       54
4.    Drivers                                       16       16       16       16
Water Department
1.   Agricultural Engineers                          2        2        2       2
2.    Civil Engineers                                2        2        2        2
3.    Hydrogeologist                                 1        1        1        1
4.    Range Water Planners                           4        4        4        4
5.    Drillers                                       6        6        6        6
6.    Building Inspector                             1        1        1        1
7.    Technical Assistants                          11       11       11       11
8.    Foremen                                        2        2        2        2
9.    Plant Operator                                 I        1        1        1
10.  Drivers                                        12       12       12       12
11.  General Staff                                 32       36       39       39


﻿22
(Cumulative)
Year
1         2        3         4
Livestock Marketing Division
1.    Co-ordinator Buyer                                 1         1        1         1
2.    Transport Officer                                  1         1         1        1
3.    Maintenance Supervisors                            5         5         5        5
4.    Accountant                                         1         1         1         I
5.    Livestock Buyers                                   4         4        4         4
6.    Assistant Transport Officer                        1         1         1        1
7.    Market Overseers                                  31       31        31        31
8.    Weigh Masters                                     16        16       16        16
9.    Mechanics                                          4         6         6        6
10.   Drivers                                           22       28        40        40
11.   General Staff                                     55      100       100       100
Veterinary Department
1.    Veterinary Officers                                1         2        3         3
2.    Livestock Officers                                 2         3        4         4
3.    Animal Health Assistants                          35       38        45        45
4.    Drivers                                            2         4         6        6
MTa;.fe
1.    Senior Scientist                                   1/2       1        1         1
2.    Supervisor                                         1         1         1        1
3.    Secretary                                          1/2       1         1        1
4.    Pilot Trainees                                     2         4        4         4
5.    Assistant Supervisors                              2         4        6         8
6.    Statistical Clerk                                  1         2        2         2
7.    Bookkeeper                                         1/2      1          1        1
8.    Field Clerk                                        1         2        2         2
9.    General Staff                                      3         5        7         9
10.   Drivers                                            1         2        2         2
Agricultural Finance Corporation
1.    Section Head Assistant                             1         1        1         1
2.    Ranch Technical Officers                           4         4        4         4
3.    Livestock Credit Officer                           4         8       14        14
and Accountants
4.    Clerical Officers                                  1         2        3         3
5.    Secretaries                                        2         3        4         4
91


﻿23
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of more than
$30,000:
(a)   The goods and services shall bc procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972. Identical or similar items shall be grouped together to form
economic bid packages.
(b)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, identifying those eligible
for preference under D hereafter, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification or
eligibility for preference under D hereafter, shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the
Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿24
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
B.    Contracts on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
1.   In respect of contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$30,000, procurement shall, whenever appropriate, be by local competitive bidding
for which advertisements may be limited to newspapers of general circulation in
Kenya.
2.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower


﻿.                                               25
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
D.    Preferences for Domestic Civil Works Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, as determined by the Borrower,
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference.
(b)   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.


﻿26
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)   bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)  bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.


