Report No. 1722a-CM                                                           FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
A Second Semry Rice Project
Cameroon
December 27, 1977
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               :      CFAF 245
CFAF 1             :     US$0.0041
CFAF 1,000,000           US$4081.63
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare          :     2.47 acres
1 kilometer              0.62 miles
1 kilogram:              2.205 pounds
i metric ton             2,204.6 pounds
l liter            :      1.057 U.S. quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
BCD        : Banque Camerouna::se de Developpement
CCCE       : Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
FAC        :  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FONADER   : Fonds National de Developpement Rural
ICRISAT   :  International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropizs
LITA          International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
IRAF          Institut de Recherches Agricoles et Forestieres
IRAT       : Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
ONAREST   : Office National de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique
SEMRY      : Societe d'Expans:.on et de Modernisation de la
Riziculture de Yagoua
SOGREAH   : Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications
Hydrauliques
WARDA      : West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
July l to June 30



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Attachment to Appraisal Report
Since this report was completed before the end of the last
quarter of 1977, the Bank lending rate used (paras. viii,
5.04, and Annex 18, Table 3) is 7.9% p.a. instead of the
rate of 7.45% p.a. applicable during the first quarter of
1978 announced on January 3, 1978. The decrease reduces
the Government's debt service obligations on the Bank loan
by 2.4%.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .OCO....C.......... O.C...........   i-v
I.   INTRODUCTION  .e. .................00000 e e oo oooo.o oo oo ................... e  ......  1
II.   BACKGROUND  ....e..o.ooee ..ooooooee.ooo...eoooeee...o.o..e.e                  1
A.   General  ooooo........................................... e     .        1
B.    The Agricultural Sector .o..o.eoeoe.o. eee.. e........                 2
C.    Institutions             ....         ,.ee..e.. o*..**e.....           3
D.   Agricultural Development Strategy  .. ..                                4
III.   THE FIRST SEMRY RICE PROJECT ............................                      5
A.   The Project Area   .....oo...o.. e.e.. ...e..e..........                5
B.   Project Description  ..0e o          .oe ....oeeo .....e....*.e.**      5
CO  Project Performance  .o              Cee.o.....................          5
D.   Conclusions  ,.,..o..... o...oooe... eo....o.........                   7
IV.   THE PROJECT ............ ............ ............                             8
A.   Project Description  ........................oee.** .*                   8
B.   Detailed Features of Project Works                 .9
C.   Water Supply, Demand and Quality  ...................                  il
D e    Water Rights  .................... ...................
E. Status of Engineering e.. e.o e.Il11
F.   Irrigation Works and Construction  ..................                  12
G.   Implementation Schedule o.....                     ...oe...    ..      12
H.   Agricultural Development  oooo ... oo.o** ... *e                       12
I.   Resettlement  ...................o...............                      13
J.   Health and Environment  .............................                  14
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ...............                    14
A.   Cost Estimates  ........o..................... ......                  14
B,   Financial Arrangements .............................                   16
C.   Procurement                 ........................................   18
D.   Disbursements  ......C ...........................                     19
E.  Accounts, Audits, Reports ...                         ....    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. M. Burer, P. Streng, C. des Bouvrie (Bank), R. Noronha and J. ter
Vrught (consultants) which visited Cameroon in May/June 1977. Messrs. A.
Otten and P. Brimble assisted in preparing the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................9          19
A.   SEMRY Organization and Staffing Requirements .......           19
B.   Training   ........................    e ....e.........       21
C.   Food Crop Research ......................22
D.   Agricultural Inputs and Credit .....................           22
VII.   PRODUCTION AND YIELDS; MARKETS AND PRICES;
FARM INCOME AND FARMERS' CHARGES; RENT AND COST
RECOVERY; SEMRY AND GOVERNMENT CASH FLOWS ...............          23
A.   Production and Yields ... .         ..... ..... ...            23
B.   Market Prospects and Prices          .......       .....      24
C.   Farm Income and Farmers' Charges .................             25
D.   Rent and Cost Recovery  .. ....         ..    ..........       26
E.   SEMRY and Government Cash Flows. ....................          26
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION...................es*.......             26
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................           27
ANNEX 1                      THE PROJECT AREA      .     .............         31
Table 1           Climatological Data      .      .........        36
ANNEX 2                      THE FIRST SEMRY RICE PROJECT (Credit
302-CM) .37
Table 1           SEMRY I Area, Yields and Production              41
Table 2           Value of SEMRY I Output.                         42
ANNEX 3                      PROJECT WORKS .43
Table 1           Construction Quantities for Civil Works.         46
Table 2           Principal Project Features .47
Table 3           Irrigation Facilities Costs .48
ANNEX 4
Table 1           Heavy Earthmoving Equipment for
Force Account Work .49
Table 2           Land Preparation Equipment .............         50
ANNEX 5                      WATER DEMAND, SUPPLY AND QUALITY                  51
Table 1           Summary of Irrigation Water Requirements         54
Table 2           Reservoir Inflow and Outflow Balance ...         55
ANNEX 6                      ENGINEERING SERVICES .56
Appendix 1        Works Under Consulting Firm's
Responsibility .58
Table 1           Staffing Pattern of Consulting Firm              59



-3-
Page No.
ANNEX 7
Table 1           Implementation Schedule ....      ............  60
Table 2           Schedule of Early Events  ...............       61
ANNEX 8                     RESETTLEMENT .......      ....................  62
Table 1           Resettlement Schedule .....     .............   65
ANNEX 9                     HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT .......... .......       66
ANNEX 10                    SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES
Table 1           Project Cost Summary ...Project       70
Table 2           Expenditure Estimates:  Civil Works             71
Table 3           Expenditure Estimates:  Equipment .....t    72
Table 4           Expenditure Estimates:  Operation
and Maintenance .74
Table 5           Expenditure Estimates: Personnel                75
Table 6           Inflation Indices Used in Calculating
Price Increases .77
ANNEX 11                    FINANCING PLAN .........................        78
ANNEX 12                    SCHEDULE  OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS ....       79
ANNEX 13                    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Job Descriptions and Qualifications of
Senior Staff  .....80
Chart i           SEMRY Organizational Structure. ........        82
Chart 2           SEMRY Directorate General:  Organizational
Structure and Staff in Charge .83
Chart 3           SEMRY Il:  Organizational Structure ....        84
Table 1           Staffing Pattern .85
Table 2           Senior Staff:  Cameroonization Targets .        86
ANNEX 14                    RESEARCH ... . . ... . . . . . . . . ... .R..........  87
ANNEX 15                    AREA, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION  .       .90
ANNEX 16                    MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
Table 1           Rice Market Projections, 1977-1990              91
Table la         Domestic Production of Paddy and Rice,
1974-1990 .92
Table 2           Cameroon Rice Market Estimates, 1970-1976    93
Table 3           Economic Ex-Mill Price of Rice .94
Table 3a          Rice Price Structure (Current Terms)            95
Table 4           Economic Ex-Mill Prices for Different
Marketing Shares ..                          96



- 4-
Page No.
ANNEX 17                    LABOR REQUIREMENTS, FARM BUDGETS
AND FARMERS' CHARGES
Table 1           Farm Labor Requirements - Per Crop .....        97
Table 2           Farm Labor Requirements - Per Month ....        98
Table 3           Crop Production Costs .... ...............      99
Table 4           Farm Family Budgets ....................    100
Table 5           SEMRY Farmers' Charges ........... .......    101
ANNEX 18                     FINANCIAL DATA
Table 1           Rent and Cost Recovery Indices    .........   102
Table 2           SEMRY II Cash Flow        .................    103
Table 2a          Value of SEMRY II Output                ...   105
Table 2b          SEMRY Ex-Mill Prices .....      ..............    106
Table 3           Government Cash Flow         .............     107
ANNEX 19                     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table 1           Project Benefits       .......................    108
Table 2           Project Costs ..........................    109
Table 3           Summary of Costs and Benefits for Rate
of Return Calculations and Sensitivity
Tests     ................................    110
Table 4           Rates of Return ........................    111
MAPS
13021
13022



- j -
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
Background
i.        The Government of Cameroon has requested the Bank Group and two
French aid agencies, the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) to help finance a second SEMRY I/
rice irrigation project. The project would build on experience with the
first SEMRY Rice project (Credit 302-CM) which was completed in 1976.
ii.       Cameroon has a population of 7.6 million and a per capita income
of US$300.  It possesses a great variety of soils and climates, from rain
forests in the south and east to mountainous highlands in the west and center,
and bush savannah in the north, giving agriculture a considerable degree of
diversity. The country experienced satisfactory growth in the 1960's with
GDP increasing at about 7% per year. Since 1971, the growth rate has dropped
to less than 3% per year, caused by deteriorating terms of trade and drought
in the north.
The First SEMRY Rice Project
iii.      The objective of the first SEMRY Rice Project, located along the
Logone River in Cameroon's northern province, was to increase rice production
by constructing an irrigation network on 4,300 ha, a rice mill, and by
providing inputs, mechanical services and extension, as well as technical
assistance for SEMRY. At appraisal, project cost including taxes was estimated
at US$8.0 million; the proposed participation of IDA was US$3.7 million
while FAC and CCCE together provided US$2.6 million and approved a supple-
mentary credit of US$3.2 million in 1976.
iv.       Project execution was on schedule with 4,500 ha completed by
April 1976 and another 800 ha under the supplementary credit by mid-1977,
or 1,000 ha more than originally foreseen. The project has been well man-
aged, and production results are considerably better than estimated: paddy
production in 1976/77 was 24,500 tons compared with an original estimate of
12,300 tons, as farmers have readily adopted double cropping, and yields in
both seasons are about 50% higher than expected at appraisal. Some 3,400
farm families now participate in the project.  At full development, their
average net income (after payment of all charges) is projected to reach
US$890, or almost three times the appraisal estimate. SEMRY's financial
position is sound, and the project is generally regarded as successful.
1/   Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture de Yagoua.



Project Description
v.        The proposed project would lead to the production of rice and
other crops on 15,000 ha which would be protected from flooding by the
Logone River through the construction of two dikes. It would be located
some 70 km north of the SEMRY I site. Of the 15,000 ha, 7,000 ha would be
irrigated by gravity permitting two rice crops per year, and 8,000 ha would
be under traditional rainfed cultivation. Irrigation water would be pro-
vided by a reservoir covering a maximum of 38,000 ha. The reservoir would
offer potential for fishery development, and its fringes would provide pas-
ture land throughout the dry season. The project would be carried out over
a six-year period (1977/78-1982/83) and would consist of:
(a) constructing two dikes, totalling 48 km, with main
intake structure, feeder canal, regulators, and
drainage outfall;
(b) constructing an irrigation and drainage system, in-
cluding on-farm works, and feeder roads serving an
area of 7,000 ha;
(c) constructing access roads linking, in particular, the
main localities in the project area, viz. Tekele,
Pouss, Maga and Guirvidig, totalling 50 km;
(d) constructing a headquarters and services complex,
including staff housing, garages, warehouses, a
rice mill, storage facilities and an airstrip;
(e) providing heavy earthmoving and agricultural equip-
ment, and vehicles;
(f) staffing and equipping the project authority, train-
ing local staff, and conducting applied research and
studies;
(g)  providing 7,000 participating farm families, half of whom
would be resettled, with support services including
credit; and
(h) providing a health program for the project area.
vi.       As the Logone forms the border with Chad at the proposed project
site, Cameroon informed Chad in 1975 of its intention to carry out the proj-
ect, in accordance with the existing Logone Water Agreement between the
two countries. In January 1976, the two countries signed a document in which
Chad gave its agreement in principle to the execution of the proposed project,
and this agreement was confirmed in June 1977.



- iii - 
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
vii.      Project costs are estimated at US$55.5 million, including indirect
taxes, but excluding direct taxes and duties from which the project would
be exempted.  The foreign exchange component is US$41.2 million or 74%.
Project costs net of taxes are estimated at US$51.0 million. Physical
contingencies and expected price increases together would amount to US$13.4
million or 32% of base cost estimates.
viii.     The Bank loan of US$14.5 million would be made to Government at
7.9% interest p.a. with a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace
period. The IDA credit of US$14.5 million would be made on standard terms.
The CCCE contribution of US$8.2 million would be a loan at 5.5% interest
p.a. with a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period, while the
FAC contribution of US$4.0 million would be a grant. Conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed loan/credit would be the execution of the Financing
Agreement between SEMRY and Government and the signature of the first-year
grant agreement between FAC and Government, and the loan agreement between
CCCE and Government.
ix.       One-third of the Bank Group funds would be passed on to SEMRY as a
grant, and two-thirds as a loan at 6.75% interest p.a. with a term of 35
years, including a six-year grace period. Of the CCCE funds half would be a
participation in equity, one-third a grant and one-sixth a loan at 5.5%
interest p.a. with a term of 35 years, including a six-year grace period. The
FAC funds would be passed on to SEMRY as a grant, and Government's contribution
partly as a grant (about 25%) and partly as equity.
x.        In view of the limited period during which the area is accessible
for heavy equipment, the main civil works contract and the contract on
essential heavy earthmoving equipment had to be signed in late 1977. A
mobilization fee, amounting to approximately US$1.1 million, for the civil
works contract, a down payment of about US$400,000 for the equipment contract
and US$100,000 for engineering consultant services had to be paid at that
stage. It is therefore proposed that an amount of up to US$1.6 million be
retroactively financed.
Procurement and Disbursement
xi.       Contracts have been awarded for the construction of the main
civil works and the supply of heavy earthmoving equipment following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts
for fertilizer; land preparation equipment; rice milling machinery; all
transport vehicles; garage and workshop equipment; and electricity, water and
telephone networks would be awarded similarly. Miscellaneous items not
exceeding US$100,000 would be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding. For contracts of less than US$20,000, direct procurement on the
basis of several quotations would be used. The irrigation network, on-farm
development works, and all other buildings would be carried out by SEMRY on
force account.



- iv -
xii.      The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit would be disbursed to cover
66% of the cost of civil works, equipment including farm machinery and
inputs, and consultants and studies not financed by FAC.
Organization and Management
xiii.     For the purposes of the project, SEMRY would be reorganized.  A
Directorate General would be created with overall management responsibility.
Two departments, SEMRY I and SEMRY II, would be in charge of day-to-day
operations in their respective project areas. SEMRY staff would also implement
a training program, be responsible for applied research, administer a credit
scheme for its farmers on behalf of FONADER, and upgrade existing health
services. It is expected that initially most senior staff positions in the
Directorate General and SEMRY II would be filled by expatriates. Expatriate
staff input would amount to 64 man-years over the project implementation
period, reaching its peak in project year 4. The large number of expatriates
is necessary because the project demands skilled and experienced personnel not
readily available in Cameroon. Moreover, Cameroonization of management is
best achieved by gradually increasing responsibilities of qualified nationals
in specific positions, a process which takes time.
Markets
xiv.      At full development, the project would produce about 47,000 tons
of paddy annually, and some 26,000 tons of rice would be available for sale.
If all rice projects presently identified or under preparation proceed as
scheduled, domestic rice production would reach 90,000 tons by 1990, of
which SEMRY I and SEMRY II would produce 60%. Assuming that the rapid in-
crease of domestic rice consumption experienced in the 1970's continues,
total domestic consumption in 1990 would about equal the production esti-
mate.
xv.       Only part of SEMRY's production would be absorbed domestically, how-
ever. SEMRY is better placed to serve northern Cameroon and neighboring ex-
port markets, such as Chad and Nigeria, than Cameroon's southern markets
where distance puts it at a disadvantage. Exports of SEMRY rice to north-
ern Nigeria have increased recently, reaching close to 9,000 tons or about
60% of SEMRY's sales in 1976. This upswing is expected to continue in the
future.
Cost Recovery, SEMRY Finances, Government Revenue
xvi.      The project would create three main sources of revenue:  farmers'
charges, milling margins, and incremental rice sales taxes. Taking all
project costs and discounting cost and revenue streams at 10% over 35 years,
the present value of total revenues would cover about 60% of the present
value of total cost.
xvii.     SEMRY's cash flow from the proposed project shows that, after
allowing for replacement needs, it could meet its debt service obligations



- v -
to Government. Government's net inflow from the project would be nega-
tive until year 10, as SEMRY's debt service payments would begin only in year
7 and would not cover the full amount of external borrowing.
Benefits and Justification
xviii.    The project's direct benefits would be increased rice production
which would raise net incomes of the 7,000 participating farm families
more than threefold to about CFAF 183,000 (US$745) per year. The project
would also lead to improvements in livestock, fisheries, health, and dry
farming. The economic rate of return is 14%.
xix.      As the proposed project would follow the successful SEMRY I
project and use essentially the same organizational structure and techniques,
the normal risks associated with projects of this kind would be minimized.
However, three important risks can be identified: a delay in the start
of irrigation works, a slower than expected Cameroonization, and a slower
development of exports. Sensitivity tests show that in the worst case -- a
delay of project start by one year, an expatriate presence for two extra
years, a reduction of exports to 30% of production, and a 10% reduction in
yields -- the rate of return would still be 8%. On the other hand, if all
goes as planned, exports rise to 80% and yields increase by 10%, the rate of
return would be 17%.
xx.       In addition to the direct benefits, the project would entail several
non-quantifiable, indirect benefits: (i) creation of good pasture land on the
fringes of the reservoir in the dry season; (ii) introduction of fishing pos-
sibilities in the reservoir, thus creating a supplementary source of protein;
(iii) introduction of a health program; and (iv) initiation of research on
dry-land food crops and establishment of an organization to promote research
results among the farmers.
Recommendations
xxi.      Based on the assurances obtained concerning the items listed in
Chapter IX, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$14.5 million
and an IDA credit of US$14.5 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a second SEMRY rice irrigation project for
which the Government of Cameroon has requested Bank Group financing. The
first project, which IDA cofinanced with FAC and CCCE, was successfully im-
plemented. Its performance is summarized in Chapter III.
1.02      Previous Bank Group assistance for agriculture comprises:  (i) the
CAMDEV oil palm and rubber project -- Loan 490-CM, US$7.0 million, and Credit
100-CM, US$11.0 million in 1967; (ii) the SOCAPALM oil palm project -- Loans
593-CM, US$7.9 million in 1969, and 886-CM, US$1.7 million in 1973; and (iii)
the SEMRY rice project -- Credit 302-CM, US$3.7 million in 1972; all of these
have been satisfactorily completed. The Bank Group is also assisting: (i)
a livestock project -- Loan 983-CM, US$11.6 million in 1974; (ii) a cocoa
project -- Loan 1039-CM, US$6.5 million in 1975; (iii) the Niete rubber
project -- Credit 574-CM, US$16.0 million in 1975; and (iv) the Plaine des
M'bo Rural Development Project -- Credit 672-CM, US$2.0 million in 1977.
Except for occasional delays in implementation, all of these projects are
progressing satisfactorily. In addition, three operations were approved
recently by the Board: (i) a Technical Assistance project -- Credit 673-CM,
US$4.5 million; (ii) the Second SOCAPALM project -- Third Window/Bank Loan
1391/2-CM, US$25 million; and (iii) the Rural Development Fund project -
Credit 723-CM, US$7.0 million.
1.03      The feasibility study for the proposed project was prepared by
consultants (SOGREAH) in 1974, updated in 1976, and supplemented by a rice
market study (1975). This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission composed of Messrs. M. Burer, P. Streng, C. des Bouvrie (Bank),
R. Noronha and J. ter Vrught (consultants) which visited Cameroon in May/
June 1977. Messrs. A. Otten and P. Brimble assisted in preparing the report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Cameroon covers an area of some 475,000 km , of which approximately
37% is forest, 30% is grazing land, only 4% is cropped, and the remainder is
accounted for by rivers, lakes and unoccupied (including fallow) land. Total
population is estimated at 7.6 mil'lion (mid-1976), with an overall growth
rate of 2.3% a year. Particular demographic features are: (a) a rapid
migration to urban areas (where the growth rate is 7%); and (b) a relatively
low ovErall population density of 15.4 persons/km , which masks a range of
225/km to 1/km . The country's ecoclimatic zones range from tropical for-
est in the south to Sahelian plains in the north -- giving agriculture a
considerable degree of diversity.



- 2 -
2.02      Average per capita income is US$300, with the absolute poverty level
estimated at about US$70 per capita. During 1960-70, growth of real GDP was
about 7% per annum; but since 1971, it has declined to less than 3% per annum.
This was caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's control, such as fall-
ing prices for its exports, drought, and rapidly rising import prices.
Meanwhile, Government stepped up public investment, which increased by 50%
to reach an annual average of about US$190 million in constant 1974 dollars
during the Third Development Plan (1972-76). At the same time, greater
emphasis has been placed on agricultural output. The Fourth Plan (1977-81)
projects a GDP growth of 7% per annum.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture plays a major role in Cameroon's economy, providing
a livelihood for about 75% of the population and accounting for about 35% of
GDP and over 70% of the value of exports. Traditional agriculture accounts
for over 90% of agricultural output. It comprises some 1 million small-
holdings of about 2 ha each, using family labor. Smallholders produce food
crops for subsistence and the local market, and cocoa, coffee, cotton and
groundnuts for export.  Cattle-raising mainly by nomadic and semi-nomadic
pastoralists in northern Cameroon and the north-central Adamaoua plateau
accounts for about 15% of the production of the traditional subsector. The
industrial plantation subsector comprises several large government-owned
and a few private industrial estates (foreign-owned), producing palm oil
(mainly for domestic consumption) and rubber (for export).
2.04      Production of foodstuffs expanded over the past five years at an
annual rate of about 5.0%, which was ahead of population growth. But this was
due mainly to rapid growth in the output of vegetables, potatoes and, to
some degree, rice in response to growing urban demand, while there was stagna-
tion in the output of traditional staples, such as maize (in the west),
plantains, yams, cassava and cocoyams (in the center-south) and millet and
sorghum in the north (here, production was adversely affected by the Sahelian
drought). Although Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in foodstuffs, imports
of wheat and rice (again mainly for urban consumption) have risen sharply
since 1970. Marketing of food crops is almost exclusively in the hands
of private traders, most of whom operate over limited areas and with a small
turnover.
2.05      The national livestock herd is estimated at 3 million head of
cattle (of which about 40% are in the north), 3 million sheep and goats,
0.5 million pigs and 8 million poultry. Annual meat production is esti-
mated at 80,000 tons. In the past, this was supplemented by imports of
live animals from Chad, but recently these cattle have been diverted to
Nigeria. As a result, without an increase in local production, annual per
capita consumption in Cameroon has probably fallen from its previous level
of about 11 kg. Market price increases for beef and cattle over the last
two years were about 15% per year. Price controls were established by Gov-
ernment, but have so far been ineffective.



- 3 -
2.06      Although forests account for 37% of the total area, the forestry
sector contributes less than 3% to GDP, 8% to exports and 7% to employment.
Better utilization of Cameroon's vast forest resources calls for improved
inventory statistics, construction of feeder roads, changes in concession
and fiscal policies, and encouragement of local wood processing. Studies
financed under the Second Highway Project (Credit 429-CM and Loan 935-CM)
are designed to assist Government efforts in these fields.
2.07      There are marked regional disparities in farm incomes, stemming
basically from differences in farm size due to population pressure and the
type of cash crops grown. Per capita agricultural incomes are highest in
the cocoa and coffee producing areas of the south (about US$150), whereas
in the northern highlands, they are as low as US$70.
C. Institutions
2.08      The National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER) was created in
1973 and given the dual role of: (a) providing credit to farmers, precoop-
eratives and cooperatives, and (b) appraising, financing and supervising
a wide variety of rural development programs, from pesticide and fertilizer
supply to village water supply and irrigation projects. It operates from
its Yaounde headquarters, relying on the departmental field services of
the ministries concerned for basic evaluations and implementation.
2.09      The shortcomings of assuming such widespread responsibilities
from a narrow base have now become apparent; a reorganization plan is pres-
ently under review by Government. This plan suggests FONADER's concen-
trating on activities such as the opening of regional offices, and offer-
ing full agricultural banking services. In addition, a detailed organiza-
tion study, to be financed by the European Development Fund (FED), is about
to get underway.
2.10      Agricultural services are provided by a variety of government and
parastatal organizations. At Government level, the Ministries of Agricul-
ture and Livestock have primary responsibility for most aspects of agricul-
tural and animal production, respectively. Agricultural research is largely
undertaken by crop-oriented institutes under the umbrella of the National
Organization for Scientific and Technical Research (ONAREST) and coordi-
nated by the Ministry of Planning. Food crop research, which until recently
was carried out by the French "Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
(IRAT)", is now the responsibility of the "Institut de Recherches Agricoles
et Forestieres (IRAF)". Responsibility for agricultural training is divided
between the Ministries of Agriculture and Education. The Ministries of
Agriculture and Livestock are represented in each province and department,
where a delegate or section head liaises with local administrative authori-
ties (Governor and Prefects). Most delegations include representatives of
various ministerial directorates (e.g., Rural Engineering, Cooperatives, Vet-
erinary Services) who enjoy operational autonomy. However, these national



- 4 -
services suffer from a number of shortcomings which constitute constraints
on development: (a) management, communication and coordination are lacking;
(b) research is not adequately applied to rural needs; (c) extension agents
are few in number and often insufficiently equipped and trained; and (d) oper-
ational funds are critically short, rendering key services such as mainte-
nance largely inoperative.
2.11      The parastatal sector is composed of Development Companies (Societes
de Developpement) which are charged with specific agricultural programs or
projects usually built around a single product. They include SODEPA for
livestock, SOCAPALM for oil palm, and SODECAO for cocoa. Some are responsi-
ble for all product activities -- provision of inputs, extension services,
processing and marketing -- such as SODECOTON for cotton and SEMRY for rice,
both operating in the northern province.
D. Agricultural Development Strategy
2.12      To achieve the 1977/81 growth target of 7%, the Fourth Plan pro-
poses a high-level of public investment of over US$2.0 billion (in constant
1974/75 terms), and gives increasing emphasis to directly productive sectors.
The projected public investment in agricultural development is, in 1974/75
prices, CFAF 85 billion (US$380 million), representing some 17% of the Plan's
total public investment expenditure. At the same time, recurrent expenditures
for rural development services are projected to grow by 6.7% per annum over
the Plan period.
2.13      Implicit in the Fourth Plan is a two-pronged strategy.  Due to
the need for increased export revenues, and in order to utilize potentially
productive natural resources as well as the technical and managerial experi-
ence already acquired by existing organizations, about a quarter of total
projected investment will be devoted to the further expansion of plantation
agriculture, including promotion of smallholder schemes. The rest of the
investment program is to promote and improve production in the traditional
sector through a variety of means, such as integrated regional development,
settlement schemes, and specific crop promotion. In livestock, a similar
balance between projected investment in modern ranch programs and in activ-
ities to improve traditional livestock production is planned.
2.14      The Bank supports Government's efforts to achieve balanced growth
of rural development projects in traditional areas and integrated estate and
smallholder plantation projects. This strategy involves developing both in-
dustrial companies and smallholder schemes. The Bank's lending in the agri-
cultural sector has three main objectives: firstly, increasing technical
and managerial capabilities, strengthening institutions, and improving sec-
tor policies, mainly through training and technical assistance; secondly,
improving the country's foreign exchange position through expanding production
and export of agricultural products; and thirdly, increasing the productivity
of the overpopulated and poor rural areas. The project which is the subject
of this report is designed to meet these objectives-.



- 5 -
III. THE FIRST SEMRY RICE PROJECT
A.  The Project Area
3.01      The project is in the Logone River floodplains of Cameroon's north-
ern province, north of the town of Yagoua (Map 13021). Except where protected
by river dikes, the underdeveloped plains are flooded for up to five months
of the year, and agriculture is limited to the few high grounds and to lands
where flood levels allow cultivation of submerged rice. Before the project,
some 20,000 ha or less than 2% of the floodplains was cultivated by tradi-
tional methods in any one year. Livestock raising, however, is important
using the numerous water holes remaining in the dry season, and fishing is
also a widespread dry-season activity. A more detailed description of the
project area is in Annex 1.
B. Project Description
3.02      The first SEMRY Rice project aimed at increasing rice production
by the construction of an irrigation network providing a fully controlled
water supply, and by the provision to farmers of inputs, mechanical ser-
vices and extension. At appraisal, the project was expected to irrigate
4,300 ha and to benefit 2,800 families. A completion report was issued in
May 1977. Details on project performance are in Annex 2 and are highlighted
in the following section.
3.03      At appraisal, total project cost including taxes was estimated to
be US$8.0 million; the IDA contribution was US$3.7 million, while French aid
(FAC and CCCE) provided US$2.6 million to finance technical assistance and
consultant services, as well as local expenditures for extension and research.
In 1976, FAC and CCCE contributed an additional US$3.2 million to extend tech-
nical assistance and consultant services for one year, provide additional
storage, and complete irrigation works on an additional 800 ha.
3.04      As originally envisaged, the project has been executed by SEMRY
(para 3.09), which has its headquarters at Yagoua. Project implementation
started in late 1972, and irrigation works on 5,300 ha were completed in
mid-1977.
C. Project Performance
3.05      The SEMRY Rice project was carried out on schedule and results to
date have been markedly better than expected at appraisal.



- 6 -
3.06      Project Works.  The original project was completed at a cost about
10% higher than appraisal estimates, including contingencies; the financing
gap was covered by Government and FAC contributions. The cost overrun is
remarkably small in view of: (a) the rapid annual price increases reaching
10-12% in Cameroon as against price contingencies of only 4-5% budgeted at
appraisal; (b) the fact that the entire irrigation system was newly built
and not partly rehabilitated (1,300 ha were assumed to be rehabilitated at
appraisal), and 200 additional ha were completed; and (c) the construction
of primary canals on an additional polder of 800 ha. Main civil works were
constructed on contract, and on-farm development works were carried out by
SEMRY on force account. The volume of work accomplished each dry season was
consistently larger than appraisal estimates.
3.07      Production and Farmers' Benefits.  Broadcasting of seed was assumed
at appraisal. However, early in the implementation period, farmers adopted
the more efficient transplanting method, which constitutes a major innovation
in the area. This was the main reason why paddy yields over the past three
seasons averaged 4.5 tons/ha, or 50% above appraisal estimates at full devel-
opment. In addition, double cropping was more readily accepted by the farmers
than foreseen, and dry-season cropping in 1977 reached 1,400 ha and is expected
to reach 3,000 ha in 1981 (the maximum obtainable in view of dry-season pump-
ing restrictions under the Cameroon-Chad Logone Water Agreement), or double
the appraisal estimate. As a result, paddy production in 1976/77 was 24,500
tons compared with an original estimate of 12,300 tons, and full development
is expected to be reached in 1980/81 with a production of 34,800 tons, or
twice the original estimate.
3.08      With a larger paddy production and higher paddy prices than assumed
at appraisal, average farm'family incomes are correspondingly higher. At
full development, they are now projected to reach CFAF 218,000 (US$890)
annually, almost three times the appraisal estimate and almost six times
the amount "without the project". Since the project covers a larger area
than estimated at appraisal, it will also benefit a larger number of families:
about 3,400 instead of 2,800. The economic rate of return is estimated at 19-
22% compared with an appraisal estimate of 11%.
3.09      Management Performance - SEMRY.  Instrumental in achieving the above
results has been the effectiveness of project management, aided by strong sup-
port from the Cameroonian authorities. The management structure which evolved
during the project implementation would not change significantly with the pro-
posed second project, and Cameroonization would continue as planned. In
early 1977, 14 of the 35 management and middle level staff were still expa-
triates. Replacement of expatriates by Cameroonians at the management level
lagged behind the schedule agreed upon during negotiations; Government has
resisted adherence to the schedule arguing that it would not allow enough
time for Cameroonians to receive sufficient training to assume positions of
responsibility. But, in 1976, four Cameroonians took up management positions,
and their number is expected to double by the end of 1977. The performance
of Cameroonians in the project is satisfactory.



3.10      Marketing.  Despite the rapid rise in production, SEMRY has not
experienced any major difficulties in selling its rice though outlets have
been somewhat different of those envisaged. SEMRY is located about 1,500 km
from the main domestic markets in the south, resulting in a high transporta-
tion cost. For this reason, it was assumed that SEMRY's output would be
partly exported to northern Nigeria or Chad. However, until 1976, almost
all output of the project was absorbed by the domestic market. This was
due to the fact that: (a) internal rice demand grew considerably faster
than incomes during the 1970's, and (b) price increases on imported rice
put SEMRY in a competitive position in the southern markets up to 1975.
With the subsequent decline in international prices, sales of SEMRY rice
to the domestic market declined and exports to Nigeria increased, reaching
60% of total sales during 1976/77.
3.11      Cost Recovery and SEMRY's Financial Position.  For services ren-
dered, farmers are paying back to SEMRY, on average, 44% of their gross in-
come from paddy production (with the paddy price set at CFAF 30/kg). These
charges fully cover the cost of cash inputs (fertilizer, seedlings) and net-
work operation and maintenance, and partly cover the cost of custom plowing,
extension services, and amortization of the irrigation network. However,
SEMRY has a surplus on its operating account -- the difference between the
paddy price and the average ex-mill sales price (currently CFAF 81/kg) more
than covers the costs of paddy collection, milling, and all personnel.
After deduction of debt service (US$4.1 million of project financing was
on-lent by Government to SEMRY) and equipment replacement needs, the net
surplus is expected to be about CFAF 160 million (US$0.65 million) annually
at full development.  This expected surplus offers scope for an increase in
the producer price which has lagged behind equivalent prices paid elsewhere
in Cameroon.
D. Conclusions
3.12      The project's implementation to date has been successful techni-
cally, agronomically and financially, and also has had a favorable impact
on the local population. Some 1,600 applicants for irrigated holdings could
not be satisfied, dispelling the uncertainty at appraisal as to whether suf-
ficient farmers would be prepared to take on the heavy workload and accept
the discipline of work to which they are traditionally unaccustomed. There
is also evidence that the increases in farmers' income are not limited to
project participants but are spreading through the extended family system
to rural inhabitants outside the project.
3.13      It is undoubtedly true that the expatriate presence has been in-
strumental in achieving the above results. The project was the first of
its kind in Cameroon and local talent capable of implementing it was not
sufficient. After 4-1/2 years of project operations, the picture has changed
substantially. Firstly, as part of the works has been done on force account,
an efficient local team of field technicians has been formed that is capable



- 8 -
of operating and maintaining the irrigation network. Secondly, the perfor-
mance of Cameroonian staff is such that, by 1979, they are expected to be
in charge of all day-to-day operations.
3.14      Due to the single-minded dedication of management to reach its main
target of promoting rice production, other aspects received less attention.
The envisaged improvement of the accounting system could not be realized
until 1975/76 when SEMRY found an expatriate chief accountant who established
an analytical accounting system which greatly improves the flow of base cost
information to management and promises to ensure tighter cost control. Re-
cruitment of Cameroonian staff was still unsatisfactory by the end of 1975,
and although a considerable number of Cameroonians was to be appointed within
the next six months, and SEMRY's Board of Directors approved a new competitive
salary scale, it was clear that expatriate staff would have to be maintained
beyond the mid-1976 project completion date to ensure continuity. Applied
research had been entrusted to IRAT until early 1975, when its contract
expired and a Cameroonian agronomist took over as head of the Vounaloun
station.  To make the transition easier, the specialist responsible for the
national rice program was to provide technical assistance.  However, in early
1977 applied research had come to a stand-still.  The program has since been
restarted with assistance from IRAF, the Cameroonian organization which has
taken over the functions of IRAT. Government failed to monitor as agreed
the incidence of bilharzia in the project area and to make periodic checks
on the snail population. Based on the few observations that could be made
in the Yagoua hospital and dispensaries in the area, the project fortunately
does not seem to have adversely affected the situation.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The proposed project would lead to the production of rice and other
crops on 15,000 ha which would be protected from flooding by the construction
of two dikes. It would be located some 70 km north of the SEMRY I site. Of
the 15,000 ha, 7,000 ha would be irrigated by gravity permitting two rice
crops per year, and 8,000 ha would be under traditional rainfed cultivation.
Irrigation water would be provided by a reservoir covering a maximum of
38,000 ha. The reservoir would offer potential for fishery development,
and its fringes would provide pasture land throughout the dry season. Under
SEMRY I, assurances were obtained that SEMRY would not undertake or execute
any new major project or development without satisfying the Association that
such development would not interfere with its obligations under this project.
This assurance has been repeated under the present project but the definition
of a major project or development has been revised to mean an investment of
more than the equivalent of US$1.0 million rather than of US$200,000.
Assurances were also obtained under the first SEMRY project, and have been



- 9 -
repeated, that Government would take all necessary steps to ensure that no
works would be carried out on the Logone river which could have an adverse
effect on agriculture in the project area.
4.02      The project would be carried out over a six-year period (1977/78 to
1982/83). It would consist of:
(a) constructing two.dikes, totalling 48 km, with main
intake structure, feeder canal, regulators, and
drainage outfall;
(b)  constructing an irrigation and drainage system, in-
cluding on-farm works, and feeder roads serving an
area of 7,000 ha;
(c) constructing access roads linking, in particular,
the main localities in the project area, viz. Tekele,
Pouss, Maga and Guirvidig, totalling 50 km;
(d) constructing a headquarters and services complex
including staff housing, garages, warehouses, as
well as a rice mill, storage facilities, and an
airstrip;
(e) providing heavy earthmoving and agricultural
equipment, and vehicles;
(f) staffing and equipping the project authority,
training local staff, and conducting applied
research and studies;
(g)  providing 7,000 participating farm families, half of
whom would be resettled, with support services
including credit; and
(h) providing a health program for the project area.
B. Detailed Features of Project Works
4.03      Dikes, Intake and Drainage Control Structures (Map 13022).  Project
works are described in detail in Annex 3. The main design problem was to
meet the provisions of the Logone Water Agreement between Cameroon and
Chad: since the maximum water off-take permissible during the dry season
would be completely used up by the first SEMRY project, a means had to be
found to store wet season water for the dry season crop. A dike would be
constructed between Guirvidig and Pouss, perpendicular to the Logone river,
over a length of 27 km and with an average height of 4.5 m above ground



- 10 -
level; the reservoir thus created would store flood waters from the river.
Another dike of 21 km would be built between Pouss and Tekele, parallel to
the Logone river, to protect against intrusion by river waters. To ensure
adequate filling of the reservoir, an Il km long canal with an intake con-
trol structure would be built from Djafga on the Logone River to the Mayo
Burad. The reservoir would be drained through an outlet it the head of
the Mayo Vrik, with a maximum discharge capacity of 100 m /sec. Upstream
from the Mayo Pous5, a broad-crested weir would be built with a maximum
discharge of 300 m /sec to return excess flood water to the river in case
of a dike rupture.
4.04      Irrigation and Drainage Systems, On-Farm Development.  The area
to be irrigated would cover 7,000 ha, subdivided into four irrigation blocks.
Each block would be provided with a head regulator and primary canal. On-
farm development works would be carried out on 7,000 ha, including land
clearing and light levelling, and construction of secondary and tertiary
canals and drains. An existing natural drain, the Mayo Vrik, would collect
the project area's drainage waters.
4.05      Roads.  The main access roads within the project area would run
parallel to and on the inland side of the dikes, opening up an all-year
connection between Pouss, Guirvidig (27 km) and Tekele (23 km). A network
of small feeder roads linked with the above would be constructed along
the primary and secondary canals for operation and maintenance and farm-to-
market transport. The project area would be connected with the provincial
north-south trunk road by the road from Guirvidig to Bogo. This road needs
to be improved to all weather standards in order to serve the project area
and assurances were obtained from Government that this would be done before
June 1, 1980.
4.06     'Headguarters and Services Complex.  Project headquarters would be
constructed at Maga and would include staff lodgings, machinery sheds and
repair facilities, and an airstrip. A rice mill would be constructed composed
of two milling units, each with a capacity of 5 tons/hour, and rice/paddy
storage facilities for 26,000 tons. Milling and storage capacity would be
sufficient to handle the project's expected output at full development.
4.07      Equipment and Vehicles.  Heavy earthmoving equipment would be pro-
vided for building the irrigation canal and drainage system and for on-farm
development works. In addition, to carry out custom plowing for farmers,
agricultural machinery, including spare parts, would be purchased. A mobile
repair unit would be procured, and the central garage would be equipped for
routine repair and maintenance of all equipment. Vehicles would be provided
to ensure regular supervision and communications with the main supply centers,
Maroua and Garoua. A detailed equipment list is presented in Annex 4.
Replacement of the light plane presently operating under SEMRY I is envisaged
for 1978/79, and financing would be provided under the proposed project. Air
transport for emergency supplies and ambulance service has proven to be a
necessity, in particular during the rainy season.



- il -
C. Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.08      The reservoir's maximum annual inflow would be 900 Sillion m  which,
after deducting est mated evaporation losses of 500 million m  and dead stor-
age of 70 million m , would leave useful storage of 330 million m ; this would
be amply sufficient to satisfy irrigation requirements throughout the year.
The reservoir would draw its water from three main sources: (1) streams
draining the Mandara mountains (33%); (2) rainfall in the reservoir area
(32%); and (3) Logone River waters either from the Mayo Guerleo (18%) or
from the Djafga intake canal (17%). The reservoir inflow and outflow sched-
ule provides for water diversion up to the middle of January.
4.09      Annual water demand is estimated at about 140 million m  per year
for the entire service area, based on the proposed cropping calendar of two
rice crops per year with a 160% cropping intensity, and an overall irrigation
efficiency of 46%. Field requirements are calculated at 880 mm and 1,213 mm
for wet and dry season paddy respectively, with a peak diversion demand of
11.2 m /sec in March. Sample tests have shown the Logone waters to be of
excellent quality for irrigation purposes. Details on water supply, demand
and quality are provided in Annex 5.
D. Water Rights
4.10      In accordance with the existing Logone Water Agreement between
Cameroon and Chad, Cameroon informed Chad in 1975 of its intention to carry
out the proposed project. In January 1976, the two countries signed a docu-
ment in which Chad gave its agreement in principle to the execution of the
ploposed project, and this agreement was confirmed in June 1977.
E. Status of Engineering
4.11      Aerial photographs of the project area, taken in 1975 at the scale
1:20,000, were used for the preparation of the 1:10,000 scale topographic
maps at 50 cm contour intervals. These maps cover the reservoir area as
well as the land to be brought under irrigation and, in view of the generally
flat topography, can be used for final design and construction quality esti-
mates. The maps would be supplemented by additional topographic mapping at
1:2,000 scale and 20 cm contour intervals for planning the irrigation block
layouts and on-farm facilities.  Detailed designs have been prepared for the
main works at scales 1:10,000 and 1:5,000, and for the main structures at
scale 1:100. Construction quantities for tertiary canals and on-farm works
were based on unit requirements for the comparable SEMRY I area. Sufficient
investigations have been made on site to ensure that suitable materials
are available for construction of the dam, dike, canal embankments and roads.



- 12 -
F. Irrigation Works and Construction
4.12      Construction in the floodplains is possible only in the dry season
when the floodwaters have receded, between November and June. The dike sys-
tem, feeder roads, intake canal, regulators and drainage outfall would be
built by a contracting firm during two dry seasons, starting in 1977/78. The
irrigation and drainage network and on-farm development works would be carried
out by SEMRY on force account over six dry seasons, also starting in 1977/78.
The total cost of these irrigation facilities has been estimated at around
US$3,500 per ha without contingencies and over US$4,000/ha with contingen-
cies, 47% of which would be for contract works, 32% for force account works
including the purchase of the necessary heavy earthmoving equipment, and 22%
for engineering, advisory and supervisory services. The project's buildings
consisting of staff lodging, headquarters offices, machine sheds and workshops
as well as the rice mill and storage facilities, would also be constructed
on force account using small work gangs as has been successfully done under
the first SEMRY project.
4.13      SEMRY will retain the services of SOGREAH consultants for the
supervision of civil works as well as force account work. SOGREAH provided
these services satisfactorily under the first SEMRY project, and also prepared
the feasibility study and tender documents for the proposed project. Its
services will be acceptable to the Bank provided that qualified personnel are
assigned. Assurances were obtained that their qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. A
description of engineering services to be provided is in Annex 6.
G. Implementation Schedule
4.14      A contract for the main civil works was signed in December 1977 and
work will start in January 1978. Contracts for force account equipment have
been awarded and work will start on delivery of the equipment, expected in
March 1978. An implementation chart and key dates are given in Annex 7.
H. Agricultural Development
Irrigated Rice
4.15      Irrigated rice cultivation techniques to be used under the proposed
project would be the same as those in use under the first SEMRY project.
SEMRY would carry out the seedbed preparation (5% of plant field) in each
irrigation unit, and farmers would be notified sufficiently in advance
to collect the seedlings for transplanting in the fields allotted to them.
Soil preparation (plowing, harrowing, and levelling), allowing for a crop-
ping intensity of about 160% at full development, would also be done by



- 13 -
SEMRY. Farmers would receive fertilizers (150 kg urea and 100 kg ammonium
sulphate per ha) to be applied by them as prescribed by management. Assur-
ances were obtained under the first project that SEMRY would provide technical
services to project farmers for a period of not less than 10 years after
the date of project effectiveness, and the same assurances have been repeated.
Farmers would be charged for all these goods and services provided by manage-
ment, with repayment at harvest time (para. 7.09). Based on experience gained
under the first SEMRY project, cultivation practices would be closely super-
vised and lead to the following yield averages in tons per hectare:
Wet Season        Dry Season
First Cropping Year                           3.8               4.5
Second and Following Cropping Years          4.0                4.7
4.16      Expected increases in irrigable and cultivated area would be as
f ollows (in ha):
Calendar Year                  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Irrigable Area                  800   2,300  3,800  5,400  7,000  7,000  7,000
Cultivated Area
Dry Season                     -      720  2,070  3,420  4,860  4,725  4,725
Wet Season                    720   2,070  3,420  4,860  6,300  6,300  6,300
Dry Crops
4.17      Under the project, an effort would be made to increase yields of
traditional rainfed crops (sorghum/millet, mouskouari). Part of the exten-
sion staff (rural development agents), supported by research, would focus on
introducing to the farmers the use of better quality seed, more appropriate
planting time and techniques, and more efficient use of agricultural equip-
ment. The general purpose is to make the cultivation of traditional crops
an integrated part of rural development, next to rice growing.
I. Resettlement
4.18      Of the 7,000 farm families expected to participate in the project,
about half are currently living in the project area. The other half would
come from the western uplands or from riverain land north of the project area.
Appropriate steps are being taken to inform the local population, through
their traditional leaders, of the effect the proposed project would have on
their lives; in particular, the transhumant cattle raising families, some of
whose herding practices would be affected, would be informed of the safeguards
that would be taken to preserve their livelihood. Direct responsibility for
implementing the resettlement program would be with the extension coordinator,



- 14 -
assisted by the extension, research, and livestock chiefs and their staff
in SEMRY II. The outline of the resettlement program is given in Annex 8.
4.19      While private ownership and tribal land rights, are recognized by
the State, land can be claimed by the State if this is in the general inter-
est. Under the SEMRY I project, title to the land was vested in SEMRY by
the Government; this land tenure arrangement was commonly accepted by farm-
ers after they were properly informed of the development plans by their
traditional chiefs. A similar procedure would be applied under the pro-
posed project and assurances were obtained to this effect during nego-
tiations.
J. Health and Environment
4.20      As hygiene is poor (para 3.14) and existing health services reach
only a fraction of the population, and the creation of the reservoir is
likely to increase the incidence of disease, particularly malaria and schis-
tosomiasis, a health program has been included in the proposed project. The
tentative program covers five measures to improve public health: (1) con-
structing and equipping a health center in Maga and three propharmacies 1/ in
Yagoua, Maga and Guirvidig; (2) upgrading of the departmental center of
preventive medicine at Yagoua and the health centers in Pouss and Guirvidig;
(3) constructing enclosed potable water vells; (4) training of medical person-
nel; and (5) improving mother-and-child care and endemic disease control
(Annex 9). The program would be carried out by SEMRY under contract with the
Ministry of Health. The project would also finance a health study including
a survey of the epidemiological situation, and the available health infra-
structure. The study would analyze the regional health sector, collect data
to design appropriate health measures in future Bank projects, and assist
Government in adjusting its health strategy to local conditions. The study
would also address the relationship between health and productivity in the
area. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consultants would be
employed under conditions and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to
carry out the health study and to formulate a detailed health program and
proposals for its implementation. The draft program and proposals would be
sent to the Bank for its concurrence not later than June 30, 1978.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Project costs are estimated at CFAF 13,600 million (US$55.5 million)
including indirect taxes (US$4.5 million) but excluding direct taxes and duties
1/   Village pharmacies with limited supplies of prescribed drugs.



PROJECT COST SUMMARY
CFAF Million                      US $ Million
Local Cost  Foreign   Total    Local Cost  Foreign   Total    % Foreign
Exchange                          Exchange             Exchange
CIVIL WORKS                                          1137        3180      4317        4.64         12.98   17.62          74
A. Irrigation Infrastructure                          672        2471      3143        2.74         10.09   12.83          79
1. Main Civil Works                                 456        1825      2281        1.86          7.45    9.31         80
2. Irrigation and Drainage System                   216         646       862        0.88         2.64    3.52          75
B. Buildings and Other Civil Works                    465         709      1174        1.90          2.89    4.79          60
1. Project Eeadquarters                             228         342       570        0.93         1.40    2.33           60
2. Rice Mill                                        113         264       377        0.46          1.08    1.54          70
3. Other                                            124         103       227        0.51          0.41    0.92          45
EQUIPMENT                                             376        2490      2866        1.54,        10.16   11.70          87
A. SEMRY Equipment                                    326        2204      2530         1.33         9.00   10.33          87
1. Force Account                                    105         945      1050        0.43          3.86    4.29          90
2. Rice Mill                                        117         660       777        0.47          2.70    3.17          85
3. Other                                            104         599       703        0.43          2.44    2.87          85
B. Farm Machinery and Inputs                           50         286       336        0.21          1.16    1.37          85
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                             158         431       589        0.64          1.76    2.40          73
A. SEMRY                                                94        239       333         0.38         0.98    1.36          72
B. Support Services for SOGREAH                        64         192       256         0.26         0.78    1.04          75
Consultants
PERSONNEL                                             943        1404      2347         3.85         5.73    9.58          60
A. SEMRY                                              671          528     1199         2.74         2.16    4.90          44
1. Technical Assistance                              -          528       528           -          2.16    2.16         100
2. Local Personnel                                  671          -        671        2.74            -      2.74          -
B. SOGREAH Consultants                                 97         876       973         0.40         3.57    3.97          90
C. Health Personnel                                   119           -       119         0.48           -      0.48          -
D. Special Training                                    56           -         56        0.23           -      0.23          -
Short-Term Studies                                     21         192       213         0.09         0.78    0.87          90
TOTAL BASE COST                                      2635         7697    10332        10.76        31.41   42.17          74
Physical Contingencies                                218          782     1000         0.89         3.19    4.08
Expected Price Increases                              667         1605     2272         2,72         6.55    9,27
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   3520       10084    13604         14.37        41.15   55.52          74



- 16 -
from which the project would be exempted. The foreign exchange component is
CFAF 10,080 million (US$41.2 million) or 74% of total costs. Project costs net
of taxes are estimated at CFAF 12,500 million (US$51.0 million) or about CFAF
1.8 million (US$7,300) per participating family (and per hectare). Details on
project costs are in Annex 10 and summarized in the table above.
5.02      The project costs include all investment costs as well as operation
and maintenance cost during the start-up period. Cost estimates for construc-
tion were based on quantities of work derived from detailed designs estab-
lished by a reliable consulting firm, and on unit prices prevailing in
mid-1977. For equipment, materials and supplies, prices are based on recent
quotations. Cameroonian staff salaries have been determined following the
current official salary scale; expatriate staff costs are estimated, in
accordance with prevailing market conditions, at US$90,000 per man-year, and
supervisory consultants' costs at US$7,800 per man-month. Physical contin-
gencies are 20% for main civil works (Annex 10, Table 2), 15% for the irriga-
tion and drainage system, roads and force account equipment; 10% for buildings
and 5% for other equipment. Costs (including physical contingencies), expressed
in end-1977 prices, were increased by an estimated price escalation of 20%
calculated at the following annual compound rates: for civIl works, 9% in
1978 and 1979, and 8% thereafter; for equipment, 7.5% in 1978 and 1979, and 7%
thereafter; and for all personnel, including expatriates, 8%.
B. Financial Arrangements
Financing Plan
5.03      The project would be financed by the proposed Bank loan and IDA
ctedit, and by contributions from the French agencies FAC and CCCE and
Government. The Bank Group, FAC and CCCE funds would cover the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The proposed financing plan is shown in detail
in Annex 11 and summarized below:



- 17 -
US$ Million
Bank/
Govt.  %    FAC    %   CCCE   %       IDA    %    Total    %
I. Civil Works   3.61   15    -       -   4.50   19   15.98   66   24.09   100
II. Equipment      2.19   15    -      -   2.73   19    9.70   66   14.62   100
III. Operation &
Maintenance   3.25  100    -       -    -       -      -      -    3.25   100
IV. Personnel      5.18   41   3.96  32   0.72    6    2.58   21   12.44   100
V. Short-Term
Studies        0.17   15    -      -   0.21   19    0.74   66    1.12   100
Total Cost   14.40   26   3.96   7   8.16   15   29.00   52   55.52   100
(Net of
Taxes)        (9.89) (19) (3.96) (8) (8.16) (16) (29.00) (57) (51.01) (100)
5.04      The Bank loan of US$14.5 million would be made to Government at
7.9% interest p.a. with a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace
period. The IDA credit of US$14.5 million would be made on standard terms.
5.05      The FAC contribution of FF 19.4 million (US$4.0 million) would
be a grant to cover the cost of technical assistance staff and part of SOGREAR
consultants' services during the project implementation period. In addition,
FAC would provide FF 4.4 million (US$0.9 million) to finance technical assis-
tance for SEMRY's Directorate General. The CCCE contribution of FF 40 million
(US$8.2 million) would be a loan at 5.5% interest p.a. with a term of 20
years, including a five-year grace period. It would finance pari passu with
the Bank Group funds items (i) to (iv) listed in para. 5.11. The execution of
the financing agreement between SEMRY and Government and the signing of the
first-year FAC agreement and the CCCE loan agreement with Government would be
conditions of loan/credit effectiveness.
5.06      Government's contribution of US$14.4 million equivalent would finance
all local costs, including taxes of US$4.5 million.
On-Lending
5.07      One-third of the Bank Group funds would be passed on to SEMRY
as a grant and two-thirds as a loan at 6.75% interest p.a. with a term
of 35 years, including a six-year grace period. Of the CCCE funds, half
would be a participation in equity, one-third a grant and one-sixth a
loan at 5.5% interest p.a. with a term of 35 years, including a six-year



- 18 -
grace period. As under the first project, the FAC funds would be passed
on to SEMRY as a grant, and Government's contribution partly as a grant
(one-fourth) anid partly as equity.
Retroactive Financing
5.08      In view of the limited period during which the area is accessible
for heavy earthmoving equipment, the main civil works contract had to be
signed by end-L977, for field operations to commence in early 1978. A mobi-
lization fee amounting to approximately US$1.1 million had to be paid at
that stage. For the same reasons, the contract for heavy earthmoving equip-
ment for force account work had to be signed in December 1977 and a down
payment amount:Lng to approximately US$400,000 had to be made at the same time.
In addition, about US$100,000 was needed for engineering consultants' services.
Government has tendered under international competitive bidding (ICB) pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank. It is therefore proposed that retroac-
tive financing up to US$1.6 million be provided for expenditures incurred
after November 1, 1977.
C. Procurement
5.09      Contracts have been awarded following ICB in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines for the construction of the main civil works (US$12.2 million) and
the supply of 1heavy earthmoving equipment for force account work (US$4.9
million). Contracts for fertilizer requirements, the purchase of land
preparation equipment (US$1.4 million), rice mill machinery, equipment and
trucks (US$4.3 million), as well as all other vehicles, garage and workshop
equipment, and electricity, water and telephone networks (US$1.9 million)
would also be subject to ICB. Domestically manufactured goods would be
allowed a prefierence of 15%, or the level of the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower.  Miscellaneous items of equipment and furniture not
exceeding US$1100,000 would be procured under local competitive bidding satis-
factory to the Bank. For contracts of less than US$20,000, for office furni-
ture and equipmnent (US$0.1 million), direct procurement on the basis of
several quotations would be acceptable.
5.10      The irrigation and on-farm works (US$5.5 million) and the project
headquarters, lodgings, offices, machine and repair shops as well as the rice
mill buildings and storage facilities (US$6.4 million) would be built by SEMRY
on force accourt (para 4.13). The reasons for the choice of force account as
the optimal solution are that: (1) SEMRY has carried out similar works success-
fully over the past four years and, with the help of SOGREAH consultants, has
formed a capable and efficient construction team; (2) the estimated unit price
of US$1,600/ha including consultants' supervision, based on SEMRY's recent
experience, is about 40% lower than the cost of comparable works carried out
in the northern province by civil works contractors; and (3) heavy machinery
operators could be locally recruited and trained by consultants which, after



- 19 -
project completion, would leave the capability essential for correct main-
tenance of the dike and irrigation system. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that for procurement of goods and services to be financed
jointly by CCCE and the Bank Group the above procedures would be used.
D. Disbursements
5.11      The Bank loan and IDA credit would cover the following expendi-
tures:
(i) Civil works: 66% of total expenditures -- US$13.62
million;
(ii) Equipment (including farm machinery and inputs): 66%
of total expenditures -- US$8.43 million;
(iii) Consultants (advisory and supervisory services not covered
by FAC) 66% of total expenditures -- US$2.02 million;
(iv) Short-term studies: 66% of total expenditures -- US$0.58
million; and
(v) Unallocated: US$4.35 million.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 12. Disbursements under
(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) would be fully documented, except in the case of
force account works under (i), which would be against certified summary
statements of expenditures verified annually by the project auditors.
Where disbursements are against certified statements of expenditures, the
pertinent documentation would be retained by the Borrower and held avail-
able for inspection by project supervision missions.
E. Accounts, Audits, Reports
5.12      Government would cause SEMRY to:  (i) keep separate records for
the Directorate General and the two project units, SEMRY I and SEMRY Il,
adequate to reflect their operations and financial position and to identify
project cost and disbursements; (ii) have the accounts of the entire organi-
zation as well as SEMRY II audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (iii) send certified copies of the audited accounts and the auditor's
report to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year;
and (iv) ensure that the auditor's reports are of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request and, in particular, include confirmation that
the summary statements of expenditure on force account works, against which
disbursements have been made, correctly reflect the detailed records kept by
SEMRY. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 20 -
5.13      Projeci: monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by SEMRY
staff, and SEMRY would submit periodic progress reports to Government and
financing agencies. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that
SEMRY would submLt a project completion report not later than six months after
the closing date for the project.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  SEMRY Organization and Staffing Requirements
6.01      For the purposes of the proposed project, SEMRY would be reor-
ganized. A Direztorate General would be created with overall management
responsibility. Two departments, SEMRY I and SEMRY II, would be responsi-
ble for day-to-day operations in their respective project areas. The
Directorate General would be headed by the present SEMRY project manager
assisted by five specialists in charge cf: (a) finance and administration;
(b) coordination of extension services and training; (c) accounting; (d)
the experiment station (para. 6.07); and (e) water management and training.
Charts of the SEM!RY organization are attached to Annex 13.
6.02      The SEMRY II organizational structure would be essentially the
same as for SEMRY I. The SEMRY II director would be assisted by senior
staff in charge of administration and accounting, land preparation, crop
production, extension, livestock, rice milling, marketing, workshops,
nurseries and irrigation, and an administrative and technical staff of 15
persons. There would be four station chiefs, each in charge of one irri-
gation block.  Under the station chiefs, the field staff at full develop-
ment would comprise 15 zone chiefs and 85 extension agents, of whom 15
would be responsible for rainfed crops and 70 for rice. The latter would
be in charge of the dissemination of better rice cultivation techniques,
distribution of water and inputs, collection of credit and organization
of the harvest. Hiring of staff for the Directorate General and SEMRY II
would be in accordance with the project implementation schedule (Annex 13,
Table 1). The project would also provide for short-term consultant services
and studies to assist management in possible problems related to settlement,
training, livestock, public health, food crops research, and other activities
including aerial photography to obtain the necessary information. Employment
of these consultants would be according to qualifications and terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Bank.
6.03      It is expected that expatriate staff input would amount to 64 man-
years over the project implementation period (Annex 13, Table 2), reaching
its peak in PY 4, when 15 of a total of 20 positions would be held by expa-
triates, declining to three in PY 6. The large number of expatriates is
necessary because: (i) the project involves the development of an irriga-
tion scheme at the relatively high rate of 1,200 ha per year and adopts a



- 21 -
more integrated approach to rural development than SEMRY I (settlement,
health, livestock); (ii) these activities, which are concentrated in the
initial years, demand highly skilled and experienced personnel that is not
readily available in Cameroon; and (iii) experience under SEMRY I has shown
that Cameroonization of management is best achieved by gradually increasing
responsibilities of qualified nationals in specifie positions, a process
which takes time. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that:
(a) at all times the positions of director general, deputy director general
and director of SEMRY Il would be filled by persons with qualifications and
experience adequate for the satisfactory performance of these tasks; and (b)
for a period of ten years, SEMRY would annually exchange views with Government
and the Bank on Cameroonization, for which a target scheme has been prepared
by Government (Annex 13, Table 2).
B. Training
6.04      Training of promising Cameroonians to replace expatriate staff
would include: (a) six scholarships for specialized training abroad; (b)
specialized courses for lower and middle level extension agents in the
agricultural school in Maroua; (c) on-the-job training by the SOGREAH team
of topographic assistants, heavy machinery and tractor operators, mechanics
and construction workers, to make SEMRY self-sufficient in the operation and
maintenance of heavy earthmoving and agricultural machinery; (d) on-the-job
water management training for station chiefs and extension agents; and (e)
specialized training at the research station for extension agents.
Training Consultant
6.05      Because the SEMRY Il director and his staff, during the intensive
period of getting the project going, would have no time to devote to train-
ing, the project would provide for a training consultant to identify specific
training needs and prepare detailed training programs. The consultant would
also make return visits to assess progress and prepare training programs for
field level operational staff, and to cater for specific problems encountered.
To this end, three man-months of consultancy services in PY 1, three in PY 2,
and two in PY 3 would be provided. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that, not later than September 30, 1978, a well qualified
specialist would be employed under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank. Draft terms of reference are in Annex 13.
Training Officer
6.06      A full-time Cameroonian training officer would be given responsi-
bility for detailed planning and implementation of the training programs
under the overall responsibility of the extension coordinator. One of the
development agent posts provided under the project would be allocated for
the training officer position. It is unlikely that a suitably trained and
experienced officer would be available immediately, and the person appointed



- 22 -
would benefit from a brief period of training outside the country covering
agricultural teaching methods, curriculum design and techniques for identifi-
cation of training needs. In addition, he would take responsibility for the
development and use of mass media in support of extension programs. Appoint-
ment of the Training Officer would take place early in project implementation,
but the need for this position would continue after project completion.
C. Food Crop Research
6.07      The proJect provides for the execution of applied research for
SEMRY I and SEMRY II. It would be carried out by SEMRY's staff at its own
experiment station near Yagoua (Vounaloun). The experimental station's
activities would i ocus on rice and would include varietal testing, experi-
ments on planting time, fertilizer trials, and studies of soil preparation
methods and water regimes. In addition, varietal trials of sorghum would
be performed to select appropriate local strains, the cultivation of which
would demand less of the farmer's time during the transplanting and weeding
of his rice crop. Also, a better quality seed would be produced by the sta-
tion. More details on the applied research program are given in Annex 14.
6.08      A technical assistance contract would be concluded between ONAREST
and SEMRY to supervise the annual research program to be executed by SEMRY.
The draft technical assistance contract has been discussed with the Bank and
assurances have been obtained that the annual research programs would be
communicated to the Bank for comment. It is expected that regular contacts
with research institutes working under comparable climatic conditions (IITA,
WARDA, ICRISAT) wrould be established.
D. Agricultural Inputs and Credit
6.09      SEMRY would provide custom plowing, seedlings, fertilizer, pesti-
cides if necessary, and farm equipment (pedal threshers, carts) to partici-
pating farmers on credit and would administer the credit program. The cost
of plowing, seedlings and fertilizers would be repaid at harvest time through
the consolidated fee (para. 7.09). Equipment would require a 20% down pay-
ment and would be paid off in up to three annual installments. The rate of
interest would be uniformly 10% per annum, which is consistent with present
credit practices. Total credit requirements under the scheme are expected to
rise to about CFAF 430 million annually at full development.
6.10      FONADER would procure and directly pay for fertilizers and farm
equipment in the! quantities requested by SEMRY. A draft agreement between
FONADER and SEMERY has been drawn up indicating, inter alia, the division of
interest income from fertilizer and equipment credit: one half would go to
FONADER, one sixth to SEMRY as a commission for its services, and the balance
into a contingency fund to cover unpaid debts. Losses not covered by the



- 23 -
contingency fund would be borne by FONADER. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that the credit administration agreement between FONADER
and SENIRY would be acceptable to the Bank, and that it would be concluded not
later than June 30, 1978.
VII. PRODUCTION AND YIELDS; MARKETS AND PRICES; FARM INCOME
AND FARMERS' CHARGES; RENT AND COST RECOVERY;
SEMRY AND GOVERNMENT CASH FLOWS
A. Production and Yields
7.01      At full development, from 1984/85 onward, the project would produce
about 47,000 tons of paddy annually. In view of the excellent soil and cli-
mate conditions for rice growing and in line with actual experience under the
first SEMRY project, yields are assumed to reach 4.0 tons/ha in the wet season
and 4.7 tons/ha in the dry season, two seasons after the start of produc-
tion in each irrigation block. The average cropping intensity would reach
158%. Details on cropped area, yields and production are given in Annex 15
and summarized below:
Wet Season      Dry Season      Total
Cropped area (ha)                    6,300 /1        4,725 /2      11,025
Yields (t/ha)                          4.0             4.7
Paddy production (t)                25,200          22,200         47,400
Home consumption, seed
requirements, losses (t)             5,170           4,500          9,670
Paddy to be milled (t)              20,030          17,700         37,730
Milled rice for sale (t)            13,920          12,300         26,220
/1   90% of irrigable area, allowing for nurseries and incomplete
transplanting.
/2   75% of wet season area due to polder maintenance (resurfacing).
SEMRY would collect the paddy harvest, process it, and sell the output ex-
mill to private traders, as under the first project. At full development,
some 26,000 tons of rice would be available for sale each year.



- 24 -
B. Market Prospects and Prices
7.02      If all rice production projects presently identified or under
preparation wouldl go ahead as scheduled, total domestic rice production
would reach 90,000 tons by 1990, of which the first and the proposed second
SEMRY project would produce 60% or about 53,000 tons (Annex 16, Table 1).
However, there is a strong possibility that domestic rice production from
sources other than SEMRY will grow more slowly than projected due to tech-
nical difficulties (drainage, water availability) and to the fact that other
crops can also profitably be grown in these areas.  A less optimistic fore-
cast of domestic output by 1990 would be about 60,000 tons.
7.03      Due to changing consumption habits and rapidly rising prices of
competing traditional foodstuffs, rice consumption grew considerably faster
than national income during the 1970's (at 3.7% against 2.8% per year)
reaching about 29,000 tons in 1976 (Annex 16, Table 2). Assuming that the
same relationship between consumption and income growth holds in the future,
and that national income rises by 5-6% per year through 1981 and about 7%
thereafter as estimated by a recent Bank economic mission, total domestic
rice consumption would equal the production estimate of 90,000 tons by 1990
(Annex 16, Table 1).
7.04      However, only part of SEMRY's production will be absorbed domestically.
SEMRY is better placed to serve Cameroon's northern region as well as neighboring
countries, such as Chad and Nigeria, than Cameroon's southern markets where
its rice has to absorb high transportation costs. Exports of SEMRY rice to
northern Nigeriai have increased strongly, reaching close to 9,000 tons or 60%
of total SEMRY sales in 1976. Therefore, Government's strategy is that
production in northern Cameroon would largely serve that area and neighboring
export markets, while southern Cameroon would continue to be served by imports
and by domestic producers in the east, center-south and west.
7.05      The SEMRY paddy producer price was increased to CFAF 30 per kilo-
gram in early 1977, while the private market price in Cameroon presently
ranges from CFAF 38 to CFAF 42 per kilogram.  Although there is no evidence
so far that the lower SEMRY price has been a disincentive to farmers, Govern-
ment intends to raise it to CFAF 37.5 per kilogram starting with the 1977
wet season harvest, to bring it more in line with the market.
7.06      Based on present IBRD forecasts of world market prices of rice,
SEMRY's economic ex-mill price for 1980 and later years would be about
CFAF 112,000 per ton for sales in northern Cameroon, CFAF 110,000 per ton
for exports to northern Nigeria, and CFAF 78,000 per ton for sales to south-
ern Cameroon, in constant 1977 terms (Annex 16, Table 3). The average eco-
nomic price would thus depend on the share of each of these markets, as
shown in Annex 16, Table 4.



- 25 -
C. Farm Income and Farmers' Charges
7.07      Under the project, each participating family is assumed to farm
1 ha of irrigated rice fields, which would be allotted to them, and slightly
over 1 ha of rainfed land on which they would continue to cultivate sorghum,
vegetables and tobacco without, at this stage, any appreciable increase over
traditional yields. The average extended family comprising three workers
would be able to cope with all labor requirements for irrigated and dry land
crops (Annex 17, Tables 1, 2).
7.08      At full development, from 1984/85 onward, the farm family's' net
income under the project (including home consumption) after deduction of
all production costs and SEMRY charges would be about CFAF 183,000 (US$745)
annually, compared to CFAF 53,900 (US$220) without the project. This would
be equivalent to a per capita income of CFAF 33,250 (US$135) and a return
per man-day of CFAF 560 (US$2.30). Although per capita income of partici-
pants would thus be nearly double the regional average now (US$70), it would
still fall short of present income in the cocoa and coffee producing areas
(US$150). Details on cropping costs and farm budgets are given in Annex 17,
Tables 3 and 4, and summarized below:
Without the Project With the Project
Paddy (ha)                               0.65                1.575
Other crops (ha)                         0.90                1.075
Total cropped area (ha)                  1.55                2.65
Gross value of production (CFAF)        62,235              293,425
Cropping costs, charges (CFAF)           8,350              110,540
Net family income (CFAF)                53,885              182,885
Net income per capita (CFAF)             9,800               33,250,
Man-days worked                            168                  326
Net return per man-day (CFAF)              320                  560,
7.09      Farmers would pay a consolidated annual fee of CFAF 70,800 per ha
of paddy land, equivalent to about 44% of gross income from paddy production.
This fee would fully cover direct production costs (custom plowing, fertil-
izer, seedlings, carts and pedal threshers) as well as the cost of other ser-
vices such as extension, irrigation water, network maintenance and amortiza-
tion (Annex 17, Table 5). It would be deducted at harvest time from the
purchase price of paddy, an arrangement that has worked well under the first



- 26 -
SEMRY project -- the recovery rate was 96% in 1975/76. Experience with the
first project has also shown that the level of charges is consistent with
maintaining sufficient incentives for participating farmers.
D. Rent and Cost Recovery
7.10      Annual SEMRY charges -- for extension, irrigation water, network
maintenance and amortization -- would total CFAF 29,540 per ha of paddy land.
Discounted at 10%' over the project's life, they would cover 53% of the rent
attributable to the project (Annex 18, Table 1). The corresponding cost
recovery index -- including all investment cost plus operating costs and
replacement needs -- would be 15%.  However, besides farmers' payments the
project would create two additional sources of revenue: (i) the difference
between SEMRY paddy purchases and rice sales (CFAF 840 million per year at
full development in constant 1977 prices), and (ii) additional Government
revenue from the rice sales tax (CFAF 220 million per year). Taking these
items into accouwt, the cost recovery index increases to 59%.  In order to
maintain adequate cost recovery compatible with farmer's incentive and ability
to pay, assurance has been obtained during negotiations that the level of
charges and paddy/rice prices would be reviewed annually by Government/SEMRY
and the Bank.
E. SEMRY and Government Cash Flows
7.11      SEMRY's cash f1o1w from the proposed project (Annex 18, Table 2)
shows that SEMRY should be able to meet its debt service obligations to
iovernment and finance all replacements, assuming that paddy/rice prices and
farmers' charges are revised in line with expected inflation through PY 6 by
when there would be a cumulative net surplus.
7.12      Government revenue from the project would consist of taxes on rice
sales and SEMRY debt service payments. Expenditures would be the initial
investment, an annual grant for the maintenance of the dikes and access road
(public domain), some health personnel expenditures, and debt service payments
to the Bank Group and CCCE. As SEMRY debt service payments would start only
in PY 7 and would not cover the full amount of external borrowing, the Govern-
ment net inflow from the project would be negative until PY 10 and positive
thereafter (see Annex 18, Table 3).
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project would make a substantial contribution to the develop-
ment of Cameroon's northern province, one of the poorest areas in the coun-
try. 7,000 participating families would experience a more than threefold



- 27 -
increase in their net farm income, and the economic value of incremental
paddy production at full development (43,000 tons) would be CFAF 2.9 bil-
lion.
8.02      The economic rate of return is estimated to be 14% (Annex 19).
Important assumptions made in that estimation are:
(1) Benefits: the inclusion of direct benefits only,
with incremental paddy production calculated by
subtracting the estimated production of the 7,000
families without the project from the estimated
production with the project. Yields, production
and milling ratio are as given in Chapter VII, and
the average economic ex-mill price is derived from
the prices for sales to the various markets given in
para. 7.06 with the assumption that 15% of SEMRY pro-
duction would be sold in southern Cameroon.
(2) Costs: the inclusion of all investment costs, all
expenditures on operation and maintenance, paddy
collection, milling, SEMRY personnel and consul-
tants. In view of the very limited employment
opportunities in the area, incremental family labor
has been valued at CFAF 60 per man-day, equivalent
to roughly two hours per day of salaried employment
at the minimum wage, or a daily catch of 600 g of
fish at the current market price.
(3) Exchange rate: the exchange rate used in the rate of
return calculations is the same as the financial rate
of exchange i.e., CFAF 245.
(4) Project life: the economic life of the project
is assumed to be 35 years, including the six-year
implementation period.
8.03      As the proposed project would follow the successful SEMRY I project
and use essentially the same organizational structure and techniques, the
normal risks associated with projects of this kind would be minimized.
However, three important risks can be identified: (i) a delay in project
commencement resulting in higher cost of the main civil works and an implemen-
tation period extended by two years; (ii) a slower Cameroonization than
envisaged resulting in a longer presence of the expatriate staff in senior
posts at SEMRY and higher costs; and (iii) an inability to export to Nigeria
as much as expected resulting in a larger portion of SEMRY production being
sold in the south at a lower economic ex-mill price, thus reducing benefits.



- 28 -
8.04      The resulting changes in the project's parameters have been in-
corporated in sensitivity tests of the economic rate of return (Annex 19,
Tables 3 and 4). In the worst case -- a delay of project start by one year,
an expatriate presence for two extra years, a reduction of exports to 30%
and a 10% reduction in yields -- the economic rate of return would be 8%.
On the other hand, with implementation on schedule, Cameroonization as
planned, exports of 80% and a 10% increase in yields, the rate of return
would be 17%.
8.05      In addition to the direct benefits, the project would entail
several non-quantifiable, indirect benefits: (i) creation of good pasture
land on the fringes of the reservoir in the dry season; (ii) introduction
of fishing possibilities in the reservoir, thus creating a supplementary
source of protein; (iii) introduction of a health program; and (iv) ini-
tiation of research on dry-land food crops and establishment of an organi-
zation to promote research results among the farmers.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)  SEMRY would not undertake or execute any major
project or development -- an investment of more
than the equivalent of US$1.0 million -- without
satisEying the Association that such development
would not interfere with its obligations under the
proposed project (para. 4.01 and P.A. 3.07);
(b)  Government would take all necessary steps to ensure
that no works which could have an adverse effect on
agricultural development in the project area would
be carried out on the Logone river (para. 4.01 and
C.A. 4.02);
(c)  Government would improve the road between Guirvidig
and Bogo before June 1, 1980 (para. 4.05 and C.A. 4.01);
(d)  SEMRY would employ well-qualified consultants for the
supervision of civil works construction under contract
and on force account under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 4.13 and P.A. 2.02a);
(e)  SEMRY would provide technical and extension services
to project farmers for a period of not less than ten
years from the date of project effectiveness (para. 4.15
and P.A. 3.01b);



- 29 -
(f)  Governnent would apply a similar procedure as was
used under the SEMRY I project with regard to land
tenure arrangements for project farmers (para. 4.19
and P.A. 2.05a);
(g)  SEMRY would employ qualified consultants under
conditions and terns satisfactory to the Bank to
formulate a detailed health program for the project
area and proposals for its implementation. The draft
program and proposals would be sent to the Bank for
its concurrence not later than June 30, 1978 (para. 4.20
and P.A. 2.02b and 2.06);
(h)  retroactive financing up to US$1,600,000 would be
provided for expenditures on civil works (US$1,100,000),
force account equipment (US$400,000) and engineering
consultants' services (US$100,000), incurred after
November 1, 1977 (para. 5.08 and C.A. Schedule 1,
para. 3);
(i)  SEMRY would procure goods and services financed
jointly by CCCE and the Bank Group according to
procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.10 and
P.A. 2.03);
(j) SEMRY would follow accounting and auditing
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.12
and P.A. 4.02);
(k)  SEMRY would submit a project completion report
not later than six months after the closing date
of the project (para. 5.13 and P.A. 2.08c);
(1)  SEMRY would employ short-term consultants whose qualifica-
tions and terms of reference will be satisfactory to the
Bank to carry out the necessary studies on settlement,
training, livestock, public health, food crop research
and other activities (para. 6.02 and P.A. 2.02b);
(m)  SEMRY would at all times fill the positions of
director general, deputy director general and
director of SEMRY II by persons with qualifica-
tions and experience adequate for the satisfactory
performance of these functions; and, for a period
of ten years, SEMRY would annually exchange views
with Government and the Bank on Cameroonization
(para. 6.03 and P.A. 3.01b and 3.02);



- 30 -
(n)  SEMRY would appoint a training consultant with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, not later than September
30, 1978 (para.6.05 and P.A. 2.02b);
(o) SEMRY wdould communicate the annual research programs
to the Bank for comments (para. 6.08 and P.A.
2.04);
(p) SEMRY would conclude a credit administration
agreement with FONADER, acceptable to the Bank, not
later than June 30, 1978 (para. 6.10 and P.A. 2.05b
and C.A. 3.02a); and
(q)  Government and the Bank would review annually the
level of farmers' charges and paddy/rice prices
(para. 7.10 and P.A. 3.08b).
9.02      A condition of effectiveness of the loan/credit would be that
the SEMRY Financing Agreement has been executed and the first FAC agreement
and the CCCE loan agreement with Government have been signed (para. 5.05 and
C.A. 6.01).
9.03      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$14.5 million and an IDA credit of
US$14.5 million.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
The Project Area
General
1.        The proposed project would be located some 70 km north of the
first SEMRY project, in the flood plains on the west Bank of the Logone
river. The Logone here forms the border with Chad until it joins the
Chari river, of which it is a major tributary (MAP 13021). The plains
upstream of the confluence are flooded for up to five months each year
and, as a result, carry little permanent habitation. They are mainly
used as grazing land by transhumant cattlemen, following the floods, and
are sparsely cultivated on the high grounds. On the other hand, the adjacent
flood-exempted areas to the west of the project have a relatively dense
population which depends for its living on precarious rainfed cropping.
Climate
2.        The climate is Sudano-Sahelian, with a single rainy season from
May to October. About 85% of the average annual rainfall of 750 mm falls
from June through September, with the heaviest rains occurring in August.
Potential evaporation exceeds 2,000 mm/yr. Rainfall, together with flood
waters inundating the plain during the wet season, is generally adequate
for a single rice crop. The onset of the rains and floods as well as their
distribution in space and time are irregular, however. This has adverse
effects on crop yields.
3.        Average annual temperature is 27 0C, varying between 25 0C in the
wet season and almost 33 C in the dry season. Temperatures may go as low
as 10 0C in December and early January, which prolongs the growing period
of dry season crops. Solar radiation levels during the same months are
reduced by the prevailing duststorms locally known as the Harmattan.
Further details are given in Table 1.
Topography. Drainage and Soils
4.        Longitudinal slopes run from south to north at less than 0.02%
with cross slopes away from the river towards the natural bypass channels,
the Mayo Guerleo, and the Mayo Vrik. These channels, which by and large
run parallel to the river, serve as natural drains and divert flood waters
towards depressions in the plain.  Return flow of floodwaters to the river,
as a result of the flat topography, is slow.
5.        Soils in the project area are predominantly heavy clays (clay
content varying from 50 to 80%) and have vertic and hydromorphic properties;
internal drainage is slow. More recent alluvial deposits of clayey loam



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
are found on the river levees and along the Mayos. The cation exchange
capacity is fair at 35-60 meq/1O0g, and organic matter content in the
upper 100 cm ranges from 3.5 to 6% whereas acidity decreases from a PH
of 5 in the top layers to 7 and 7.5 at greater depth. Currently soil
fertility is good, requiring relatively low fertilizer applications. In
the long run, however, higher gifts of nitrogen and also phosphate would
be needed, particularly if rice is to be continuously double-cropped. No
salinity hazards are expected from irrigation, since analyses of water
from the Logone River and wells in the area indicate low soluble salt
content and low sodium absorption ratios (SAR values of 0.6 to 1.5).
The lands which have been selected for irrigation development rank
among those best suited for rice production in the region.
Hydrology
6.        The flooding of the project area is the combined result of rainfall,
(from June to September), run-off from the Mandara mountains (August and
September) and overflow of the Logone (Seetember/October). The river rises
in June, reaches its peak flow oS 1,200 m /sec in September/October and
recedes3to a low flow of 50-60 m /sec by January and its lowest point
of 45 m /sec in March/April. The onset, extent and duration of the floods
may vary from year to year.
Population
7.        The basic social and economic unit in the project area is the
sare, an extended family residing together under the authority of the
eldest male. Sare are traditionally linked together by lineage and are
under the authority of a chief. Traditional chiefs are not part of the
legal-administrative system of Cameroon but, nevertheless, have persuasive
influence over their followers sanctioned by custom. Important ethnic
groups in the project area are the Mousgoum, Massa, Toupouri and Fulani.
Mousgoum account for approximately 95% of the population in the project
area.
8.        Population statistics are not entirely reliable, but it is esti-
mated that the population in the project area numbers around 19,500 in-
habitants divided into 3,450 sare with an average size of 5.5 persons of
whom 3.1 are economically active. Of these, about 7,300 (or 1,350 sare)
live in the area of the proposed reservoir.
9.        Except for Maga, Pouss and Guirvidig, where settlement patterns
are nucleated, the main type of settlement is dispersed. Clusters of
sare, each at some distance from the other, are loosely described as
"villages" for administrative purposes. Administratively, the project
area is divided between the "cantons" of Pou,as and Guirvidig with a total
of 28 villages, half of which are located in the reservoir area.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Land Tenure
10.       Traditional land use patterns in the project area involve the
demarcation of customary boundaries among the ethnic groups. Within each
group, paramount title belongs to the chief who has the power to allocate
and redistribute land for use and residence among the members based,
generally, on an assessment of needs. Although land is allocated for use
and occupation and would apparently result in a right only to the fruits of
land (usufruct), an allocation once made is disturbed only for exceptional
reasons (as, for instance, abandonment, or floods necessitating re-allocation).
In effect, therefore, the occupant has title to the land once allocated,
which can be transferred and inherited by custom. In addition to these
allocated lands, some lands are used in common, e.g., for grazing purposes.
In the project area there are also migratory routes and cattle trails
demarcated customarily, which are used seasonally in common with other
transhumant groups.
11.       There is no land pressure in the project area.  The major problem
is the limitation to make full use of the land. This is the result of
several factors: traditional agriculture, irregularity of the rains, and,
most importantly, inundation of major portions of the project area. Thus,
there are areas which are unoccupied and unexploited.
12.       Traditional land use and ownership patterns have been modified
by statute. The ultimate title to land vests in the state. The most
recent statute relating to ownership is Ordinance 74/1 of July 6, 1974,
which reaffirms the state has the ultimate right to regulate the use of land
while affirming private ownership and occupancy rights. This ordinance
applies to the project area.
Agricultural Practices
13.       The average farm size per sare is 1.55 ha of which 0.65 is rice;
0.5 ha sorghum/millet; 0.3 ha mouskouari and 0.1 ha other crops, such as
vegetables and tobacco. Small farm sizes, traditional practices, and adverse
ecological conditions result in low productivity. Sorghum and, on a
much smaller scale, millet are the main subsistence crops grown on land
where surface drainage is good and a high water table is not a problem.
Rice has been grown under traditional conditions with artisanal water control
since the early 1950's. The area under rice was modest, but has increased
rapidly to over 1,000 ha, or 37% of all land under traditional crops,
since SEMRY introduced custom plowing for individual farmers.  Yields of
traditionally grown rice average 1 t/ha.
14.       Wet and dry season sorghum still represents the most important
subsistence crop in the project area. Sorghum and millet are planted
with the arrival of the rains in June and harvested in October. Sorghum
is also grown as a dry-season crop, locally known as mouskouari, mainly



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
on the levees along the Logone river and the mayos. Nurseries are prepared
in September and the seedlings are transplanted to superficially prepared
lands in October when the floods recede. Harvest takes place in January/
February. An average yield of 700 kg/ha is thus assured, whereas wet
season sorghum yields vary from 600-1,000 kg/ha; millet yields are somewhat
lower.
Livestock
15.       Livestock, particularly cattle, plays an important role in the
life of the population of the project area. The possession of cattle is
an index of prestige, and cattle is used as a bride price. There are an
estimated 12,000 head of cattle. In addition, sheep, goats, poultry and,
in some instances, pigs are raised. In contrast to most cattle, they are
kept for consumption. On average, a sare keeps 3.6 head of cattle, 6.6
sheep, 9.7 goats, and 14.8 head of poultry. The number of cattle and sheep
is estimated to have increased considerably, while that of goats and poultry
has stagnated in recent years.
16.       Most herds remain in the project area throughout the year feeding
on grass and straw. Some cattle herds are transhumant and are accompanied
by hired herdsmen, generally residents of the same villages as the cattle
owners. There is growing recognition of the commercial value of cattle,
and increasing numbers are sold. There are two major markets in the north,
Bogo and Waza, where cattle are bought by middlemen (usually Hausa traders)
and sent by train to Yaounde and other growing markets in the south, or on
the hoof west to Nigeria. There is little reliable information on weight,
weight loss and mortality during these journeys, but the price paid in
Nigeria is said to be 200-250% higher than the average price in Cameroon
of CFAF 50,000 per head.
17.       Herds from the districts to the south and west, mainly owned by
Fulani, also move through the project area on their yearly trek to the
grazing lands (yaere) in the north. They pass through the Manga forest
in November/December, the Anderni-Guirvidig-Maga corridor in December/
January and reach the yaere east of the Waza National Park in February.
Their number is estimated at 150-200,000.
18.       The project would affect cattle and cattle movements in several
ways. The construction of the dikes and the creation of the reservoir
would change the cattle routes going north and would require the relocation
of local herds. After project completion, transhumant cattle are likely
to follow the route along the Mayo Vrik, which would become a permanent
watercourse, thus opening up rangeland north of the project area for dry
season grazing. Transhumance of the local herd is likely to be reduced for
the following reasons: (i) the new watering facilities offered by the
reservoir would allow cattle to graze the pastures of the Manga forest longer
into the dry season than at present; and (ii) grazing land in the reservoir
area, would be reduced by 12,000 ha, leaving a fringe area of around 26,000
ha, from which waters would recede gradually. Of this area, about 12,000 ha



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
would never be under more than 90 cm of water, providing growing conditions
for palatable grass species and natural pasture which would remain lush
and nutritious well into the dry season. The increased number of cattle
remaining in the project area could give rise to problems regarding grazing
rights and practices, which would require close attention at an early stage
by project management and traditional leaders.
19.       In view of the lack of detailed information on livestock, provi-
sion has been made under the project for a study which would result in a
program for livestock improvement and pasture development, including improved
fodder and veterinary services. Fifteen man-months of consultants for
technical assistance would be provided to assist in program design and
implementation.
Fisheries
20.       The fish resources of the Logone river during years of normal
run-off are reputed to be of significance. Also the riverain lands
(the yaeres) offer excellent spawning grounds during the flood season.
The fish, mainly carp and lungfish species, are highly appreciated and
much fished by the local farmers during the dry season.  Overexploitation,
in fact, took place during the drought of 1973-74 and the catch has since
then sharply declined. The reservoir area and in particular its permanently
inundated 12,000 ha would offer potential for fishculture.  Total annual
production under natural conditions could, according to preliminary estimates,
in fact reach 2,000 tons. The project, therefore, has made provision through
consultant services to focus greater attention on the development of this
resource.
Roads
21.       The roads in the project area are on average adequate.  The main
north-south trunk road traversing northern Cameroon, parts of which are being
improved under a Bank project (Loan 663/Credit 180-CM), passes 60 km to the
southwest of the project area. The existing provincial road connecting the
project area with this trunk road is in good condition between Maroua and
Bogo, but needs to be improved between Bogo and Guirvidig to accommodate
all weather traffic. This is foreseen under Government's plan for the imme-
diate future. Another all-weather provincial road connects Guirvidig with
Yagoua, where the SEMRY headquarters is located; it is adequate for the
expected traffic.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT 1/
Climatological Data
Annual
Item                         Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    June   July   Aug.   Sept. Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
A. MEASURED VALUES
1. Temperature (C) 2/
- Average Daily                 26.5   29.0   32.4   32.6   29.8   28.1   25.6   25.5   26.5  28.8   28.3   25.9
- Maximum Average               34.0   36.6   39.9   40.0   35.5   33.3   30.0   29.6   31.5  35.9   35.3   32.4
2.  Cloud Cover (%)                    No  records
3.  Relative Humidity (%) 2/        27      24     23     31      50      61     72      78     72    55      33     30
4.  a) Wind (Avg. km/hr)            2-5    0-2      0-2    0-2    2-5   2-5       0-2    0-2    2-5   2-5    0-2    0-2           1
b) Prevailing wind-                    N-NE                     w                      W                  N-NE
direction (per
quarter)
5.  Evaporation                    164    177    219    212    207    163    138    128    135   179    177    166    2060
(mm/month) 3/
6.  Rainfall (mm)
- Yagoua  4/                    -      -        4     19      59    117    181    272    131    31        -      -       814
- Pouss   5/                    -      -        2     12      58    110    184    267    108    18        -      -       759
B.  CALCULATED VALUE
7.  Water use by Reference         183    154    186    202    189    138    118    112    132   164    156    177    1911
Crop 6/ (Eto) mm/month
1/  Latitude  - 110 North.
2/  Measured at Maroua.
3/  Computed evaporation (from open water surface; no pan-evaporation data available).
4/  Period of observation (1956-1973):            Low,   ten year recurrence 535 mm/yr.                                          I.
High,  ten year recurrence 1100 mm/yr.
5/  Period of observation (1957, 1963 and 1968).
6/  Short green crop, fully supplied with water.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
The First SEMRY Rice Project
(IDA Credit 302 - CM)
1.        As appraised in 1971, the SEMRY Rice project was to improve rice
cultivation on about 4,300 ha in northern Cameroon through the introduction
of pump irrigation permitting yield increases and double cropping. It was
to benefit some 2,800 smallholder families receiving 1.5 ha each, and to
reduce the country's dependence on rice imports.  At full development, from
1982 onward, some 17,000 tons of paddy were to be produced annually. Ex-
ternal financing was also provided by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Coopera-
tion (FAC) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). In 1976,
the two institutions agreed to help finance an extension program increasing
irrigable area to over 5,300 ha and the number of benefitting families to
about 3,400. The program is now being implemented. In the recalculation
of the project's financial and economic benefits, it has been taken into
account.
Physical Implementation
2.        The project was completed on schedule and the IDA credit was fully
disbursed by June 1976. Within the original contract price for the main
civil works it was possible to construct not only the primary and secondary
networks serving about 4,500 ha (against 4,300 ha estimated at appraisal),
but also part of the networks serving an additional polder of about 800 ha.
The remaining works were done by SEMRY on force account.
3.        On-farm development works, covering the entire project area
instead of only 3,000 ha as assumed at appraisal, were carried out on force
account by SEMRY. The volume of work accomplished each dry season was
consistently larger than appraisal estimates. By April 1976, 4,527 ha were
completed, and with the completion of on-farm works under the extension pro-
gram in mid-1977, the total increased to 5,350 ha.
Agricultural Development
4.        Actual paddy production has substantially exceeded appraisal
estimates, and production at full development is now expected to reach
35,000 tons (with the extension program), twice the amount projected at
appraisal. This is based on (i) the larger area that will be available; (ii)
the extension of on-farm works to the entire project area; (iii) the higher
yields made possible by the adoption of transplanting instead of broadcast-
ing; and (iv) the much larger area that is now expected to be double cropped.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        In the early phase of the project, the outlook for the introduction
of transplanting did not seem very bright. Through 1973, broadcasting was
the rule. In January 1974, exceptionally low temperatures put the crop into
jeopardy, but SEMRY management succeeded in convincing farmers that they
could still get a good crop. It immediately prepared seedbeds and received
farmers' assurances that they would do the transplanting. The action was
a success. The contrast between fields of farmers who had transplanted
and of those who had not was so striking that SEMRY organized visits for
farmers expected to cultivate the polders next to be developed. As a result,
broadcasting was abandoned in the project area.
6.        Since farmers adopted double cropping much more readily than
assumed at appraisal, dry season area reached 1,400 ha in 1976/77, nearly
double the appraisal estimate of 750 ha, and it is now expected that the
entire area available for dry season cultivation within the limits of the
Logone Water Agreement will be utilized (3,000 ha instead of 1,500 ha es-
timated at appraisal).
Project Cost
7.        At CFAF 2,274 million, actual project cost (excluding the exten-
sion program) is only about 10% higher than estimated at appraisal -- 16%
in current dollar terms (due to exchange rate variations). This small cost
overrun is chiefly due to three factors: (i) the main civil works contract
was completed at a cost that was low by 1972 standards -- the four other
bids received were between 6% and 90% higher -- and could only be obtained
then because the contractor had just finished other work and wanted to
keep his personnel and equipment in Cameroon; (ii) some of the 36% increase
in construction cost, part of which resulted from the upgrading and expan-
sion of the project, was compensated by savings on equipment and personnel;
and (iii) a large part of the cost was incurred early in the life of the
project when the impact of world inflation and rising oil prices was not yet
fully felt.
Economic and Financial Aspects
8.        With a larger paddy area (because of the larger share of double
cropping) and substantially higher yields (because of on-farm works and
transplanting) and paddy prices than expected at appraisal, average farm
family income is now estimated to reach CFAF 218,000 at full development
(US$890 at CFAF 245 per dollar), almost three times the appraisal estimate and
almost six times the amount "without the project".
9.        SEMRY's actual operating results compare favorably with appraisal
estimates. Because of the rice price increases authorized by Government
and considerable improvement in the collection rate of farmers' charges
(from just over 50% in 1973/74 to 96% in 1975/76), proceeds from rice sales
were higher and the cumulative deficit of the operating account was sub-
stantially lower than estimated at appraisal, and no subsidies have been
required since 1974/75. Tentative estimates for the coming years, based



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
on present prices and farmers' charges, show that SEMRY should be able to
generate sufficient funds to service its debt -- CFAF 1.13 billion, in-
cluding the extension program, at 3.5% interest -- and to finance the
replacement of equipment.
10.        Incremental rice production at full development is now assumed
to be about 20,000 tons (double the appraisal estimate). Based on ex-
pected ex-mill prices and including the estimated cost of the extension
program, except items not directly related to SEMRY, the project's rate of
return is 22% compared with the appraisal estimate of 11%. If benefits are
reduced by 10% and 20% (the latter an unlikely case), the rate would be 19%
and 15% respectively.
The Weaker Points
11.       Assurance was obtained during negotiations that SEMRY's accounting
system would be reorganized, and SEMRY gave high priority to complying with
this covenant. In March 1973, the accounts were found to be adequately kept
and detailed enough to permit identification of project costs and credit
disbursements. But the rising volume of work soon made it clear that SEMRY
needed a chief accountant. As often in other African countries, none could
be found in Cameroon on the terms offered. Routine work suffered, and the
envisaged improvement of the accounting system could not be realized. Since
June 1975, SEMRY has employed an expatriate chief accountant financed by
FAC. In 1975/76, he established an analytical accounting system which is
now operational. It greatly improves the flow of base cost information to
management and promises to ensure tighter cost control.
12.       At appraisal, it was agreed that within three years Came-oonians
would be appointed to work with and be trained by SEMRY's expatriate staff;
that the Cameroonians would replace the expatriates when this was justified
by their performance; and a schedule of personnel development was drawn up.
Despite repeated reminders and no disagreement in principle, recruitment of
Cameroonians was still unsatisfactory by the end of 1975, in part due to
unattractive salary levels. Although a considerable number of Cameroonians
was to be appointed within the next six months, and SEMRY's Board of Directors
pproved a new competitive salary scale, it was clear that expatriate staff
would have to be maintained beyond the mid-1976 project completion date to
ensure continuity, and FAC agreed to provide financing, under the extension
program, for five management positions for an additional year. At the
beginning of 1977, 14 of the 35 management and middle level staff were
expatriates, including three middle level employees.
13.       The performance of the Cameroonian staff in place now augurs well
for the future, but their number is still small and it remains to be seen
whether a complete management team can be formed to take over when the
proposed new management structure is introduced. The strong Government
support which SEMRY enjoys should prove especially valuable in this
respect.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
14.       Applied research under the project had been entrusted to the
French Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales (IRAT) until February
1975, when its contract expired and a Cameroonian agronomist took over at
the head of the Vounaloun research station. To make the transition easier,
the 1975 supervision mission recommended to obtain technical assistance
through regular visits of the specialist responsible for the national rice
program. In this way, it was hoped that the Cameroonian agronomist could
also be put in charge of seed multiplication and seedbed preparation without
endangering the research program. Unfortunately, the 1977 supervision mission
found that he had taken the place of the departed assistant technical director
and research had come to a stand-still. The research program has since been
restarted with technical assistance from the Institut de Recherches Agri-
coles et Forestieres (IRAF), the Cameroonian organization which has taken
over the functions of IRAT.
15.       Government's failure to monitor, as agreed, the incidence of
bilharzia in the project area and adjacent areas and to make periodic
checks on the snail population must be seen in the context of the general
situation of health services in the area. Until 1975, over long periods
of time there was no physician at all in the department of Mayo-Danai. The
situation has improved since, but is still inadequate considering the needs
of the department's 180,000 inhabitants. Moreover, there is still no
economically feasible way to eradicate bilharzia. Based on the few obser-
vations that could be made in the Yagoua hospital and dispensaries in the
area, the project fortunately does not seem to have adversely affected the
situation. SEMRY's newly arrived physician will try to verify the estimated
incidence of the disease and establish its geographical distribution.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SEMRY I Area, Yields and Production
SEMRY                               Cultivated Area                            Yield                        Marketed Production                      Estimated Total Production              Annual
FY /         Season       Traditional       Modern       Total       Traditional       Modern       Traditional       Modern      Total         Traditional       Modern        Total       Total
1973/74         Wet          5,205              582       5,787           0.68           2.07            3,523          1,204        4,727           3,875          1,325        5,200         6,172
Dry                             516        516                          1.71                              884          884                            972          972
1974/75         Wet          3,284            2,213       5,497           0.64           2.67            2,093          5,898        7,991           2,302          6,488        8,790        12,308
Dry                             846        846                          3.78                            3,198       3,198                           3,518        3,518
1975/76         Wet          2,021            3,169       5,190           O 96           4 36            1,944         13,824       15,768           2,138         15,206       17,344        22,596
Dry                          1,073       1,073                          4.08                           4,377        4,377                           5,252        5,252
3/
1976/77         Wet          1,991            3,674       5,665           0.62           3 54            1,228         13,019       14,247           1,807         18,460       20,267        26,267
Dry                          1,400       1,400                          3 65 4/                        5,110 4/    5,110                            6,000        6,000
3/
1977/78         Wet          1,900            4,815       6,715           0 75           3 65            1,425         17,595       19,020           1,900         20,700       22,600        31,060           1
Dry                          1,800       1,800                          4.0                             7,190        7,190                          8,460        8,460                        ,
3/
1978/79         Wet          1,500            4,815       6,315           0.75           3 65            1,125         17,595       18,720           1,500         20,700       22,200        32,770
Dry                          2,250       2,250                          4.0                             8,985        8,985                         10,570       10,570
3/
1979/80         Wet            890            4,815       5,705           0.75           3.65              670         17,595       18,265              890        20,700       21,590        34,280
Dry                          2,700       2,700                          4.0                            10,785       10,785                         12,690       12,690
1980/81         Wet            -              4,815       4,815                          3 65              -           17,595       17,595              -          20,700       20,700        34,800
Dry                          3,000       3,000                          4 o                            11,985       11,985                         14,100       14,100
1981/82         Wet            -              4,815       4,815                          3.65              -           17,595       17,595                          20,700      20,700        34,800
Dry                          3,000       3,000                          4.0                            11,985       11,985                         14,100       14,100
1/  July 1 to June 30.
F/ Past:  110% of marketed production in normal years, 1207 in dry seaaon 1976, 140% in wet season 1976.
Projections' wet season yield 4.3 t/ha, dry season yield 4.7 t/ha, marketed production 85% of total.
2/ Outside SEMRY I project area, to be abserbed in SEMRY II project.
4/ Preliminary.
IX



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Value of SEMRY I Output
Semry                 Rice          Ex-Mill                         Ex-Mill      Value of
FY       Season       Output 1/    Price 2/    By-products 3/   Price            Rice Output    By-products        FY Total
(t)          (CFA/t)          (t)           (CFA/t)      (------------CFA Million--------------)
1975/76    Wet         10,279       79,005                                          812.1
Dry
1976/77    Wet          6,379       78,300            418            5,650          499.5             2.4            1 099
Dry          7,128 4/   83,120 4/         606            7,000           592.5            4.2
1977/78    Wet          4,240 5/   89,025 6/          390              "            377.5             2.7            1,489
Dry         12,360         "            1,140               "         1,100.3             8.0
1978/79    Wet          4,670         "               430              *            415.7             3.0            1,510
Dry         12,170                      1,120              "          1,083.4             7.8
1979/80    Wet          5,840          "              540              "            519.9             3.8            1,588
Dry         11,870         "            1,100              "          1,056.7             7.7
1980/81    Wet          7,010         "               650                           624.1             4.6            1,655
Dry         11,440         "            1,060                         1,018.4             7.4
1981/82    Wet          7,790         "               720                           693.5             5.0            1,724
Dry         11,440         "            1,060              "          1,018.4             7.4
1982/83    Wet          7,790                         720                           693.5             5 0            1,724
Dry         11,440         "            1,060              "          1,018.4               '
1/  Paddy production of preceding season converted into rice (standard and brokens) at 0.65; rcunided.
2/  Weighted average of all qual:ities sold.
3/  Projections  6% of paddy to oe milled.
4/ January 1 to May 28, 1977.
5/  Including about 1,400 tons lreft over from the 1976 wet season crop.
6/ See Annex 18, Table 2b.
CD X
t.JN 



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Project Works
General
1.        The second SEMRY Rice project would provide irrigation service to
7,000 ha of riverain lands on the left bank of the Logone River. To ensure
a year-round supply of water, a storage reservoir3would be constructed with an
estimated total storage capacity of 600 million m covering an area of 38,000 ha
at maximum level. The project would also provide flood protection for an area
of 8,000 ha of rainfed crops. The layout of the irrigation system and
principal works are shown on map 13022. Proposed construction quantities for
all civil works are presented in Table 1 and principal project features
are listed in Table 2. The base costs per hectare of all construction works
broken down into individual components is given in Table 3. The project
would include the following main components:
Storage Dam and Road
2.        An earthen dam would be built perpendicular to the Logone River,
east-west from Pouss to Guirvidig, 27 km long. It would have a maximum
height of 7 m, a crest width of 3.5 m, and sideslopes of 4 to 1 and 1.75 to
1 on the reservoir and inland side, respectively. A storage reservoir would
thus be created, covering a total of 31,500 ha at overflow level and 2,000 ha
at minimum reservoir level, leaving a useful storage of 330 million m .
3.        Two structures for the evacuation of excess inflow from the re-
servoir area would be provided. A drainage outlet, equipped with sliding
gates, (1,400 x 1,400) would be constructed in the body of the dam imme-
diately west of Maga, for overflow to be spilled into the Mayo Vrik main
drainage chanel, instead of being returned to the Logone, at the maximum
rate of 100 m /sec. Secondly, a broadcrested weir would be constructed on
the Logone dike, with the dual purpose to provide security against unseasonal
overflows and dike rupture once the reservoir has reached the level of
312.19 m, or to allow inflow into the reservoir area from the river up to the
maximum level of 312.73 m.
4.        A road would be built on the inland side of the dam, 27 km long,
8.0 m wide and raised an average of 0.4 m, to connect the future project's
main centers, Pouss, Maga and Guirvidig. A bridge over the Mayo Vrik
channel and appropriate road crossings on the four main conveyance canals
would also be built.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Dead-head Canal and Intake Structure
5.        A dead-head feeder canal would be constructed from Djafga on the
Logone river to the Mayo Burad, a tributary of the Mayo Guerleo, at the up-
stream end of the reservoir. The canal would be 11 km ong, 13 m wide, of
variable depth and have a maximum design flow of 30.0 m /sec, with a flow
velocity of 0.83 m/sec.
6.        An intake control structure would be constructed in the Logone
dike at Djafga and equipped wi5h four sliding gates, (1600 x 1600), allowing
for a maximum intake of 30.0 m /sec. It would be provided with a crossing
for the road Yagoua-Pouss.
Logone Dike and Road
7.        Proposed works would include the reinforcement of the existing 21.5
km long dike on the left bank of the Logone River from Pouss to Tekele,
increasing its height to a maximum of 2.80 m above natural ground, providing
it with a crest width of 3.5 m, and slopes of 1.75 to 1 on both sides. The
free-board allowance would be 0.70 m.
8.        The existing road (23 km long) on the inland side of the dike
would be realigned, widened to 8.0 m, and raised an average of 0.4 m. It
would secure access to the Pouss irrigation block and connect Pouss to the
northern part of the plain at Tekele.
Main Drain
9.        The Mayo Vrik by-pass channel would be used as the gravity outlet
for the reservoir overflow and the projects main drains. It would be regulated
for this purpose over a length of 400 m. Hydraulic calculations supported by
available records of Mayo Vrik levels during actual floods indicate that, with
the future reservoir acting as a buffer, its capacity to drain the project
area would be amply sufficient.
10.       A head gate structure would be built at the he d of each of the
four primary canals which would have a capacity of 2-5 m /sec. These structures
would be equipped with two sliding gates (1400 x 1400) for inflow control and
two radial gates (model AVIO-Neyrpic 100/200 BC) to maintain constant canal
levels irrespective of downstream use.
Construction of Irrigation and Drainage Networks (7,000 ha)
11.       Project works would include the construction of open-earth primary
and secondary canals and drains, along with necessary water control structures,
turnouts, culverts and farm roads. Secondary canals would be equipped with
fixed discharge gates in combination with duck-bill weirs in the primary
canal, where required. Constant head orifice turnouts to tertiary laterals



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
would be provided for water deliveries of 120 1/sec to rotational areas.
Turnouts would be provided for each 3.5 ha unit from which farm ditches
would convey water directly to each 0.5 ha plot.
12.       Farm drains would convey excess water from each 3.5 ha unit to the
secondary and main outlet drains, which in turn would join the project's
main drain. Part of the main drainage outlets would be newly excavated
and part would be existing natural channels, the tributary to the Mayo Vrik,
that would be deepened and regulated.
13.       Canals would be unlined since infiltration rates are low throughout
the project area. Unsurfaced 0 & M roads would be constructed on the canal
banks. Primary and secondary canals would be provided with a roadway
3.5 m wide on both banks.
14.       Farm roads would be constructed along the drains by using excavation
materials. They would be raised 0.4 m above ground level. The widths proposed
are 6 m along primary and secondary drains and 4 m along tertiary drains.
These roads would also serve as farm-to-market roads.
Housing and Office Facilities
15.       SEMRY's main office and the Director-General's residence would be
built at Yagoua, project headquaters for SEMRY II at Maga. Staff lodgings
-- a total of 20 three -, two -, or one-room furnished bungalows -- would
also be constructed at Maga. Project headquaters would consist of offices,
a garage and machine park, machinery heds, a workshop and spare parts
storage, water works including a 10 m water tower as well as a tubewell
equipped with a diesel electric pump, and health facilities. Also, the local
airstrip would be improved.
Rice Mill and Storage Facilities
16.       A rice mill would be built equipped with two milling units, as
well as paddy and rice storage facilities. The first unit with a capacity
of 5 tons per hour would be installed in time for the third project year's
crop, the second unit in project year five, bringing the total million
capacity to 10 tons per hour. Paddy and rice warehouses would be constructed
from project year three through year six, gradually increasing storage
capacity from 9,500 to 26,000 tons.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Construction Quantities for Civil Works
3  3            Earth Movement
Length (km)   Excavation (m)   Fill (m                 Total Quantities (m3)
(a) Main Civil Works
Deadhead canal                         11.0          647,100
Main drain                              0.4           62,207
Subtotal                                       709,307                                       709,307
Storage dam                            27.0                        2,050,975
Logone dike                            21.5                           273,370
Subtotal                                                      2,324,345                    2,324,345
Intake works                                           8,000            2,770
Reservoir outlet                                      14,660            7,250
Reservoir spillway                                     1,160            4,270
Main canal intake structures                           1,670              970
Subtotal                                        25,490           15,260                       40,750
Access roads                           50.0                           225,440                     225,440
Subtotal (a)                                                                               3,329,842
(b) Irrigation & Drainage Network
and On-farm Works
Primary and secondary canals                      1,580,000
Service roads                                                        140,000
Subtotal (b)                                 1,580,000          140,000                    1,720,000
TOTAL (a and b)                                                                                 5,049,842



* CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Principal Project Features
Maga W.      Maga E.       Pouss       Guirvidig          Total
Net irrigable area                ha           2,300         2,200        1,000          1,500           7,000
Main canals                       lm           5,100         3,800         2,500         3,900          15,300
Secondary canals                  lm         19,300        14,800         9,500        12,700          56,300
Project drains                    lm          24,500         7,700         8,700       12,700           53,600
Secondary drains                  lm         12,000        15,500         6,300         7,600          41,400
Subtotal canals              lm                                                                   166,600
Farm drains                       lm         70,500        70,500       221,300        47,700         410,000
Farm ditches                      lm         62,500        62,500       197,400        44,100         366,500
Subtotal farm drains         lm                                                                   776,500
& ditches
Access Roads (8 m)                lm                                                                    48,000
O & M roads (including those
along main & secondary
canals & on farm)            lm           46,675       46,675       155,450        38,300         287,100
Subtotal roads               lm                                                                   335,100
CDX~



- 48 -                                           ANNEX 3
Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Irrigation Facilities Costs
US$/ha 1/
Total                 US$/ha    % of Total   % of Total
Irrigation   Investments
FCFA          US$ 2/-         3/       Works          Irrigation
(thousands)  (thousands)       ___                       Infrastructure
(a) MAIN CIVIL WORYS
Dkes
Storage dam                                1,584,878
Logone  dike                                  268,304
Subtotal                                 1,853,182        7,564         1,080         50
Mlain Structures
Intake Works                                   67,347
Reservoir outlet and main drain               172,019
Reservoir overflow weir                        69,739
Main canal headgates                          198,043
Subtotal                                   507,148        2,070           296         14
Dead-head canal                                 341,155
Subtotal                                   341,155        1,392           199           9
Roads
Access road                                   152,898
Subtotal                                   152,898          624            89          4
Subtotal (a)                             2,854,383       11,651         1,664                       47
(b) IRRIGATION NETWORK
Irrigation & Drainage Canals                    240,000
Service roads                                    24,000
Irrigation structures                            73,000
Subtotal                                   337,000        1,376           197          9
On-farm development                             525,000
Subtotal                                   525,000        2,143           306         14
Subtotal (b)                               862,000        3,518           503                      14
Subtotal (a + b)                         3,716,383      15,169          2,167        100%
(c) HEAVY EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
Subtotal (c)                             1,080,500       4,410            630                      18
Total (a + b + c)                        4,796,883      19,579          2,797
(d) ENGINEERING & SUPERVISORY SERVICES
Subtotal (d)                             1,265,045       5,163            738                      21
Total (a + b + c + d)                    6,061,928      24,743          3,535                     100%
1/ Base cost only.
2/ 1 US$ = 245 FCFA.
3/ Gross area 7,000 ha.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Heavy Earthmoving Equipment for Force Account Work
Item                                             Quantity  Unit Cost  Total Cost
(FCFA       (FCFA
million)   million)
Crawler Tractor (200 hp)                             3         29.0         87.0
Crawler Tractor (140 hp)                             5         20.0        100.0
Crawler Tractor (105 hp)                             4         14.0         56.0
Motor Scraper (150 hp)                               3         47.0        141.0
Motor Grader (180 hp)                                5         26.0        130.0
Motor Grader (250 hp)                                1         35.0         35.0
Elevating Grader (180 hp)                            2          2.0          4.0
Front End Loader (80 hp)   3                         3         11.0         33.0
Crane Crawler Dragline (  m3)                        1         29.0         29.0
Hydraulic Backhoe (0.9 m )                           2         26.0         52.0
Backhoe - Loader Combination (70 hp)                 2         20.0         40.0
Wheel Roller (9 ton)                                 1         10.0         10.0
Sheep Foot Roller (self propelled, 170 hp)           1         10.0         10.0
Compactor with Generator (1300 kg)                   2          3.2          6.4
Subtotal                                                             733.4
Dump Truck (5 m )                                    7          8.0         56.0
Flatbed Truck (6-8 3ton)                             2          5.0         10.0
Water Truck (5-7                                     3          8.5         25.5
Fuel Truck (5-7 m)                                   3          8.5         25.5
Maintenance Truck                                    1          9.0          9.0
Mobile Repair Shop (mounted on truck)                1         15.0         15.0
Truck & Flatbed Trailer (5-7 ton)                    1         17.0         17.0
Four Wheel Trailer                                   1          2.5          2.5
Subtotal                                                             160.5
Tractor (60 hp)                                      1          3.5          3.5
Brush Cutter (1.5-2 m)                               1         0.5          0.5
Trailer Mounted Generator (20 KVA)                   2          2.6          5.2
Land Plane (20 m)                                    4          4.0        16.0
Disc Plow 32" (offset)                               5          5.5        27.5
Disc Plow 28" (offset)                               2         4.0          8.0
Forklift Truck                                       1        10.0         10.0
Concrete Mixer (500 31)                              3          1.5         4.5
Motor Dumper (1.5 m )                                3         2.0          6.0
Compressor (mobilS, 60 hp)                           1         6.0          6.0
Water Pumps (40 m /h)                                3         0.4          1.2
Subtotal                                                              88.4
Total                                                                982.3
Spare Parts Provision 10%                                             98.2
GRAND TOTAL                                                        1,080.5



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Land Preparation Equipment
Item                                            Quantity  Unit Cost  Total Cost
(FCFA      (FCFA
million)   million)
Tractor with Hitch (105 hp)                        6         14.0         84.0
Tractor with Toolbar (105 hp)                      3         15.3         45.9
Tractor with Hitch (140 hp)                        3         20.0         60.0
Plow with 28" Discs                                6          4.0         24.0
Plow with 36" Discs                                3          5.5         16.5
Tank Truck (fuel)                                   1         8.5          8.5
Service Truck                                       1         9.5          9.5
TOTAL                                                              248.4



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
Water Demand
1.        Of the gross area of 7,000 ha, 100% would be irrigated during the
wet season and 75% or 5,250 ha during the dry season, setting aside 25% fur
yearly maintenance (resurfacing). Rice would be the sole crop during both
seasons. Allowing for nursery requirements (5%) and non-planted areas (5%),
the cropping intensity would be about 160%.
2.        The following cropping calendar would be adopted which would maxi-
mize the use of rainfall and as much as possible avoid low temperatures dur-
ing early growth stages in the dry season:
Timing
Activities                      Wet Season                     Dry Season
Ploughing                 Early May-late June            Early Nov.-mid-Dec.
Sowing                    Early June-early July          Early Jan.-late Jan.
Nurseries                 Early June-early August        Early Jan.-late Feb.
Flooding                  First of June-mid-July         Early Jan.-early Feb.
Transplanting             Late June-early August         Late Jan.-mid-Feb.
Harvesting                Early Oct.-mid-Nov.            Mid-May-early June
3.        Flooding would be undertaken following plowing and would require
75-100 mm. Percolation losses were estimated at a maximum of between 1.5
and 2.0 mm per day during flooding and would level off to 0.5 and 1.0 mm per
day after transplanting. Evapotranspiration losses were calculated applying
the modified Blaney-Criddle formula; no open rim pan evaporation data were
recorded in the project area. Effective rainfall would be around 630 mm.
4.        Total field requirements would amount to 880 mm and 1,213 mm per
wet season and dry season paddy crop, respectively. Efficiency at the farm
level is assumed at 65%, and distribution system efficiency at 70% resulting
in an overall efficiency of around 46%.  Total gross an ual water demand at
the four head-works is estimated at about 144 million m /year. Peak diver-
sion water demand would occur in March and April and amount to 11.2 m /sec,
corresponding to an irrigation duty of 2.7 1/sec/ha. Tertiaries would serve



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
areas of 43 ha on a rotational basis and have a design capacity of 3.0 1/sec/
ha. Monthly irrigation water requirements as well as seasonal and total
annual diversion requirements are given in Table 1.
Water Supply
5.        The Logone Water Agreement limits the amount of water which may be
drawn from the river by each of its riparian states. River discharge records
indicate that insufficient water would be available for the proposed project
during the dry season. Water needed for the dry season rice crop, therefore,
would have to be stored. This is the purpose of the reservoir to be con-
structed in the natural depression imnediately upstream of the project area.
6.        The Reservoir.  Inflow into the reservoir totalling 905 million m 3
year would be derivef from three sources:  (i) run-off from the Mandara Moun-
tains (296 milhion m /year or 33%); (ii) rain falling on the reservoir area
(288 million m /year or 32%); and (iii)3Logone water admitted to the reservoir
through the Mayo Guerleo (160 million m or 18%). Recharge takes place in
six to eight weeks during July and August, until the overflow level of 312.19
m.o.s. 1/ is reached corresponjing to a reservoir area of 31,500 ha and a
total storage of 402 million m . The reservoir'  maximum allowable level
stands at 312.73 with a storage of 600 million m and an area of 38,000 ha,
which may be reached in October. The reservoir's dead storage level stands
at 310.80, cSntrolled by the project's headgate structures with a storage of
70 million m and an area of 12,000 ha, and is usually reached at the eNd of
May. The reservoir'l life storage therefore may vary from 600-70=530 m to
400-70=330 million m . A summary table of inflow and outflow is given in
Table 2.
7.        Among the intermittent streams or Mayos which feed the reservoir
from the west, the most important are the Mayos Tsanaga and Bouta, which          2
drain the Mandara Mountains, with a total catchment of 1,535 km and 1,020 km ,
respectively. Only the former has been gauged at Bogo from 1953-1970. The
Mayo Guerleo, which enters the reservoir area from the south, has been gauged
for a number of years at Kaye-Kaye. A control struSture in the Logone levee
has reduced its peak inflow from 150 m /sec to 30 m /sec. It is also used
as a gravity outlet for the SEMRY I project. The dead-head feeder canal,
which links3the reservoir with the Logone at Djafga is, with a maximum capac-
ity of 30 m /sec, intended to play a key role in keeping the reservoir close
to its overflow level, compensating for evaporation, until the middle of
January. The Logone river's regime is characterized by high discharges
1/ M.O.S.: meter above sea level.



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
between July and January, with peak flow of over 1.200 m /sec occurring in
SSptember-Oc5ober, which gradually decrease to a seasonal low flow of 45
m /sec (20 m /sec during dry years) around March-April. The river has been
gauged for around 20 years at Katoa near the reservoir overflow weir, where
the annual variation in high water level does not exceed 15 cm.
8.        Drainage.  Flood waters are presently drained from the project
area through the Mayo Guerleo in the south, the Mayo Pouss in the center,
and the Mayo Areinata, Mayo Vrik as well as the small and large Mayo Goroma
in the north.  The rehabilitated Logone dike would block flow from the river
into the Mayos Pouss, Areinata and small Goroma. All drainage therefore
would take place through the Mayo Vrik and the large Goroma, which even-
tually join the Logone at Logone Birni farther to the north.
9.        Water Quality.  Tests of water samples (as shown below) from the
Logone River indicate good quality for irrigation purposes with conductivity
in millimhos/cm of less than 100 most of the year. No water samples have
been taken from the Mayos Boula and Tsanaga, but no adverse effects on soils
or crops are expected since these streams derive the bulk of their water from
uplands composed of granite bedrock.
Logone Water
Date                                      5/5   10/5
Conductivity in millimhos/cm                  less than 100
Ca ++ meq/l                                     0.32  0.18
Mg ++ meq/l                                     0.14  0.19
Ka ++ meq/l                                     0.06  0.04
Na ++ meq/l                                     0.53  0.30
SAR                                             1.1   0.60



ttuts   v               C ~~HI-'  >e et- C D 3e r,<' e       e                            t   ,
C :> >N v 4   <1'1  i-'031g-t .laO,oc,9,<,   C.                                         <
 H,'10   03 0^ 3    O O 0  0                                                   C O                               O
Wr             O Dro                     QH  iON2O   '0'tt g                                     O               
O0      0'        B-, 3     >--    3
3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 0                9'  0,-' g0 g9t'                                          0  F
;~~~ ~ ~~~~ O                         9' O    000. ot                                    9
000       '..c'  100 0,
t   X~ ~ '                  00>              d2t0.-9                                                             \
~~~~- 3                                       t  _                                      _               .       _       _   _ _
______________________________ ---- --'Jr                                    ---        ------------ ---- _.____.___ ___
-  9'~~~~~~~~ 
s           w         __________I_______1
'1n   8 OO'               W                                                         w                      1    3'
O~~~~~~~u-r O                                                                                                    _O'
s.'.s>    O  O                                                                                                   8
P'          2                          .~> .i '.,,                                                                                      L        W
'.0        ts               ru Cnt-O                                                                                                   [8       S 8\
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' z   tr
9                                                                                                                                       E  os '  -    9 $u z  
3,              __o________\__                                                                 '-         -o
o.   .'                                                                          .                                        a _t.  
O                                                                                                                                 0>0NH   FJ  t  V
9'   t               H~~~~oi  H -O   -u- -uv
e~~~~~ '' '                                                                                                                           t  o'o 
s.,      ruo      ruo, 4t kn  sn  
, X_NNV
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                         >                                   |      ' n
.4 ~     ~
w  -'-J                                                                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~
ru                              O, 0  t-                                                                              IP
_ bC, -



CAMEROON
SEOOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Reservoir Inflow and Outflow Balance
Jan.     Feb.     Mar.      Apr.        May      June       July       Aug-     Sept.       Oct.      Nov.      Dec.      Total
INFLOW (in m3 x 10 6
Rainfall on reservoir area                                               6.74     20.94     41.52      64.26     96.56      46.50     11.00                          287.52
Mayor Mandara and Boula                                                                                67.28    129.16     94.00       5.50                          295.94
Mayo Guerleo                                                                                                                82.06     77.76                          159.82
Feeder canal                             24.62                                                                                                  77.76     59.61      161.99
Subtotal Inflow                        24.62       -         -         6.74     20.94     41.52    131.54    225.72    222.56       94.26     77.76     59.61      905.27
OUTFLOW (in m3 x 106)
Diversion requiremente                    7.94     27.70     28.93      28.36      8.57      9.23      12.46       -        9.4o      11.40       -          -      143.99
Evaporation from reservoir area .        51.66     52.22     55-85      42.40     32.09     22.00      19.32     26.24      40.32     56.39     55.76      50-72    504,97
Infiltration lake area                    8.2       7.6       6.4       5.2        3.6       3.4        3.6       5.4       8.2        8.2       8.2       8.2        76.20
Subtotal Outflow                       67.80     87.52     91.18      75.96     44.25     34.63      35.38     31.64     57.92      76.00     63.96     58.92      725.16
Lake area (ha)  /                        29.500    25.500    20.000    15.500    13.500    14.000    20.500    30.500    31.500    31.500    31.500    31.500
Lake level (m.o.s.)  /                   312.1     311.8     311.4      311.1     310.9     311.0      311.4     312.10    312.19    312.19    312.19    312.19
Lake valume m3 x 106                     360       272.5     181.32    112.1       88.8      95.7      191.7     385.8      402       402       402        403
Balance in- and outflow m3 x 106        _ 43.18   - 87.52   - 91.18   - 69.22   - 23.31   +  6.89   + 96.16  + 194.08    +17.2          -         -       +  0.69
147.44     18.3      13.8   /            179.54
Excess flow from reservoir    /              -
l   Total reservoir area affected by direct rainfall assumed at 35.500 ha.
g   Excese flow from the reservoir assumed to halt by the middle of November, after which date evaporation is compensated by inflow through canal
until January, remaining at or around level 312.10.
3/ Evaporation dependant on extent of lake area.
P Denotes reservoir area at end of month.
Excese flow removed through Mayo Vrik outlet or the overflow weir.        6 3
Minimum reservoir level at dead storage is reached at 310.8 and 70 x 10 m.



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Engineering Services
1.        Two main categories of project works may be distinguished, each 1/
calling for engineering services of a different nature: (i) contract works;
and (ii) force account works for irrigation development and the construction
of SEMRY facilities. The consulting firm SOGREAH would be engaged to provide
these engineering advisory and supervisory services, for a total of 501 man-
months as given in Table 1. More in particular, this firm would accept full
responsibility for the technical adequacy and quality of the following works:
Contract Works
(i) the preparation of plans, designs and drawings for the
main civil works and structures which are to be executed
under I.C,B., as listed in Appendix 1.A. This would
include additional studies, amendments and improve-
ments, which may prove necessary during implementation.
The drawings should be of adequate detail to allow the
contractor to prepare the plans and specifications
required for execution of the works;
(ii) the preparation of invitations to bid on the above
civil works, including prequalification of bidders
and the analysis of bids, as well as recommenda-
tions to SEMRY on the award of the contract fol-
lowing the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits";
(iii) the technical supervision of project execution in
line with contract specifications, and recommenda-
tions to SEMRY regarding the acceptance of completed
works.
Force Account Works
(iv) preparation of detailed plans, designs and specifi-
cations of the works listed in Appendix 1.B
to be executed by SEMRY on force account;
(v) preparation of technical specifications, bidding
documents and contract forms, including bid analyses
for the equipment listed in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2,
following the above mentioned guidelines.
1/   This contract has been awarded to Messrs. Fougerolle, France).



- 57 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(vi) management and technical supervision of the force
account works listed in Appendix 1.B. This would
include, apart from the actual direction of the
works, the in-service training of SEMRY topographic
survey teams and heavy machinery operators.
Other Activities
(vii) assistance through a chief mechanic to be put in
charge of the heavy machinery park and repairshop,
under the authority of the SEMRY Director General;
(viii) assistance to SEMRY in the preparation of reports
and documents related to the progress of construc-
tion and financing of all works, supervised by the
consultant as required by IDA; and
(ix) assistance to SEMRY in the preparation of all docu-
ments related to the certification of withdrawal
applications from the project's credit account,
related to the above works.
Personnel and Time Schedule
2.        The services described above would be provided by the consultants
in the period June 1977-June 1983. Bidding documents for the main civil
works and force account equipment have been completed in June 1977. The
consultants' expected staffing requirements and pattern, expressed in man-
months, is presented in Table 1.



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Works Under Consultant Firm's Responsibility
A.   Contract Works:
-    Dead-head canal and intake works.
-    Storage dam.
-    Reservoir drainage outlet and Mayo Vrik regulation.
-    Reservoir overflow weir.
-    Logone dike.
-    Head-gate structures.
-    Road Guirvidig-Pouss-Tekele.
B.   Force Account Works:
-    Primary, secondary and tertiary canals and ancillary
structures.
-    Primary, secondary and tertiary drains and ancillary
structures.
-    Network of maintenance and feeder roads and ancillary
structures.
-    On-farm development works (land clearing, land levelling,
turnouts, culverts, etc).
C.   Maga Project Headquarters and Village:
-    Network of streets and drains for Maga village.
-    SEMRY II staff quarters, offices, garage, work and repair
shops.
-    Amenities (electricity and water supply) for the SEMRY Il
staff quarters, offices and workshops.



- 59 -                                               AI4NEX 6
Table 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Staffing Pattern Consulting Firm (in man/months) 1/
77/78       78/79       79/80       80/81       81/82        82/83    Total man/months
1           2           3           4           5            6
Project Manager                           3    7          10      3    3      2    3      1    2       1    1      10      26
Consultant Services                      1    2       1    1      1    1      1    1      1    1       1    1       6       7
Management Team
Project Engineer                       4    6           10                                                        4      16
Design Engineer                        4    6           10           3            3           2           2       4     26
Project Technicians                    6                                                                          6
Supervision Contract Works
Controller of Works I                        7          il                                                              18
Controller of Works II                       6           7                                                               13
Soil Mechanics Specialist                    6           7                                                              13
Topographer                                  6           7                                                               13
Management Force Account Worka
Site Manager                                10          10          10          10           10          10             60
Engineer (buildings)                         8          10                                                               18
Engineer (main civil works)                                          9           9            9           9              36
Superintendent of Works
(earthvorks)                              8            9           9           9           9            9             53
Superintendent of Works
(small structures)                        4            9           9           9           9            9             49
Chief Topographer                            7           9           9            9           9           9              52
Topographer & Building
Superintendent - Maga Site                 6           9           8                                                   23
Machine Park
Chief Mechanic                               7          10          10           10          10          10              57
Total:                                                                                                           30    480
1/  Underlined figures denotes man/months spent at consulting firm's headquarters; all others spent at the
project site.



- 60 -                                                                                      ANNEX 7
Table i
_   '<NN\N'  sNN\\N'uN\\\\NN '\NN\\NNNNNN\N\NNNNNNN' N\NNN\NNNNNN\\\\N\\\NN\\\N\N\NNNN\NN\N\\NNNNNNNNNN\NN\NNNNNNNNNNNNN'\NN\N 
3-            N'NNNs\` \ NNN\ NNNNNN\\ N\\\\s\\\\\\\\\NNNNN         \N      fs         j    \i\\\\ N\    NN\N\N\j\   \\\\\\\\\N\\NNNN\          \\\N\NNNN NN\\\N\\\ \[<\\\ 
_'~N\NNN\NN  \\N\NNNNNN\NN   NN\NNNNNNN\N\\N\NN   NN\NNNNNNN'NNNN\\\N
`C   - ``  ' NN NNN,,XNN\NNN\, N,\N\\N,,X\NN'NN\ NN\Nsuuu ,  s\\,s,,\,NNNN\N,,N,,NNN ,,,`\,,\\N                                     s,,,,\NN,`NNNNN      N\NNNNNNN N\NNNN
Zi    \ ~\NN  N' NNNNNNNNN\ NN ' \, s, \NNN\\N,\N\\NNNN\,\NN\NNNN\NNNNNNNN\N\,,N\\NNN\,,,,,,,                                       \ NNNNNNNN\NNNNNNNNN,X,\N               N
-NNN\\\NNNN\NNNNNNNN\NNNNNNNNNNNNNNN\                                                       N\NNNNN\\NNNNNNNN\NNNN\\NNNNN\NNNN\NNNNNN\NN\\NN' NN\\N\N\\\\\\\\\\\\
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                       \'0O\\'\\\N\\\N\\\N\\NNNN\<_\\'\\\N\N\\\\ NNNN\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
Ci  2NNNNN 'N'NNNNNNNNNNNNNNN\NNNN\                NNNN\N\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\                                         \ N\\\\\\\\\\\NN\NNN \N         NN\N\N\\NN'\   \N\N\
O     \ 4NN j`NNNNN\NN\ NNNNNNjX\\ \\\\          \ \NNN' N  jNN \NN\\NN\\N\\  N\NNNNNNNN\N\ NNNNN\ NNNNNNNNNN\'NN\ NNNNN\ NNNNN\ NN\\\NN\N\                      \N iii\\Niii  i
_           '  NNNNN                    N N\\\\\\\\\\> \ \  \ \\\ \\\o\\\\\\\\  \\k\\N\\\\N\\\\\\\N\\\kN\\\\\\\\\\           \\\sssus\\\N \\\NN\k\N\Ns\sN\\NN            \\
_     ________'                                                                                                    I __I
00(            --                                                 i   _         __       _         _     _     _     ___             I 
43            E_NxuxsXs  uX    Cii                                              \\N    N\N\NN\NN\N\N \\N             NN\N\NNN\\N\N\\NNN\NNNNNNNsxu
",_i   _  _                           . _ ._
O-J, ,,,        ,                       .isiii   iis                 iiis         iiiiii,,\is                    ii"\,,,i                   E iiiiiHiiiii`iii
00             A<<j    j     <<iij   ij   jjjjjjojj   j    j  jjjj      jjjj  j jj -j   jjj   Ejjj j   ej      X\j   jjjjj
V2  ____iNIIEIE_______ ;  \ \____\\\ \\_\ \\\_\\ \                                                                                    _\\\\\_ _\\\\\_\\\\\\\\\\s\  \i\i\\
( 0       N                                                             _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _                   _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _\\\\_\\_\\\\\_\\_\ _\\\\_\ _\i\\\\\\\ _ _ _ _ _ _\\\5 
nN N
_    \                                                          .NNN'NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN\NN                                                            _.NNNNNNNNNN
n                                                                                                                                         I Ic               ~{, =n_-           



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                        Target Date
1.   Civil Works Contract
(a)  Complete engineering design &                  15 June 1977
tender documents, invitation to
tender (ICB)
(b)  Preparation and submission of bids             15 June - 15 Sept. 1977
(c)  Evaluate bids                                  15 Sept. - 15 Oct. 1977
(d)  Award Contract                                 December 1977
(e)  Start Construction                             January 1978
2.   Procurement of Force Account
Construction Equipment
(a)  Complete tender documents for force            15 June 1977
account equipment and advertise (ICB)
(b)  Preparation and submission of bids             15 June - 15 Sept. 1977
(c)  Evaluate bids                                  15 Sept. - 15 Oct. 1977
(d)  Award Contract                                 November 1977
(e)  Start delivery construction equipment          February 1978
3.   Force Account Construction
(a)  Complete detailed engineering design           November 1977
for initial construction
(b)  Start construction of SEMRY II estab-          December 1977
lishment at Maga
(c)  Topography Maga West                           September 1978
(d)  Start construction canals Maga West            February 1978



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Resettlement
1.        The project would settle 7,000 farm families (sare) and provide
them with land for living quarters and cultivation. Plans would in the first
instance be directed to the allocation of paddy land to the 3,450 sare (mostly
Mousgoum) who already live in the project area, including the 1,350 sare to
be resettled from the proposed reservoir area and 2,100 sare from the area
around Maga, Pouss and Guirvidig. The remainder to be resettled would com-
prise the 1,600 sare who have applied for but cannot be giver. land under
the first SEMRY project, and some 1,950 sare spontaneous settlers who are
expected to move into the area from the uplands to the west or the plains
to the north of the project. This spontaneous immigration, as has been the
case with the first SEMRY project, is likely to be induced by the infrastruc-
tural facilities and financial incentives offered by the project.  No ani-
mosity is expected between these different ethnics, which traditionally
have entertained friendly relations.
General Principles and Procedures
2.        The resettlement of families would be ruled by the following gen-
eral principles:
(a) Before starting resettlement operations project
management would discuss the settlement procedures
and schedule with the sub-prefect at Maga and tradi-
tional leaders;
(b) With the assistance of the administrative authori-
ties and traditional leaders further spontaneous
settlement in the project is being prohibited until
after June 1978;
(c) Project management would demarcate areas where
families may reside and construct their tradi-
tional dwellings, using locally available mate-
rials. Each sare would be located within a
distance of 4 km from its paddy fields;
(d) Each residential area would be provided with
enclosed drinking water wells (1 for 150 sare)
and access roads. In addition, project manage-
ment would construct, equip and staff (under
agreement with the Ministry of Health) one
dispensary with a propharmacy at Maga, upgrade
the health centers at Pouss and Guirvidig, and
construct propharmacies at Yagoua and Guirvidig;



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
(e) Each sare would receive such residential space
as is customary. The determination and allocation
of space would be made after consultation with and
through the traditional leaders;
(f) Each sare would be assisted in transporting their
personal goods and receive 100 kg of grain (sorghum
and millet) per head, to tide them over the period
until their first wet season harvest in the new
area;
(g) Each sare would normally be allocated one hectare
(two piquets) of land for paddy cultivation. The
sare would, during the dry season, be employed
for the development and preparation of the paddy
land allotted to them. Those sare which are re-
settled or have migrated into the project area
would, in consultation with and through the tradi-
tional leaders, also receive land for the cultiva-
tion of traditional crops (sorghum/millet mouskouari)
in the area north of the dike and outside the 7,000
ha demarcated for paddy cultivation. Particular
care would be taken to ensure that this would not
in any way effect the existing use of, and rights
to land cultivated by sare now residing in the
project area.
(h) Each sare participating in the project would be
entitled to receive shares in SEMRY in proportion
to its paddy land holding five years after it has
first brought the land under cultivation, provided
that it has regularly followed the cultivation
practices prescribed by project management.
Organization and Management
3.        While overall responsibility for land allocation and resettlement
would rest with the Director General, responsibility for the implementation
of this program would be mainly with the extension coordinator in the Direc-
torate General assisted by the extension, livestock and research chiefs and
their staff in the SEMRY II unit.
4.        The duties and responsibilities of the resettlement staff would
include:
(a) communication of resettlement programs to the
participating sare;
(b) maintenance of regular contact with the tradi-
tional leaders;



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
(c) communication of, and instruction in improved
cultivation practices of traditional crops,
basic hygiene and nutrition; and
(d) assistance to traditional leaders in supervising
the grazing of the reservoir's drawdown area by
resident and transhumant livestock.
Time Frame and Phasing
5.        The resettlement schedule (Table 1) is integrated with the imple-
mentation schedule (Annex 7, Table 1), and the development of paddy fields.
In PY 1 (1977/78), the construction of the major portion of the two dikes
would result in the protection against floods of the area around Maga. The
first group of 1,050 sare, consisting of 800 sare now living in the reservoir
area and 250 sare living near Maga, would be resettled before the onset of
the rainy season of June 1978. These sare would, in view of the shortage
of paddy land at this stage, receive one piquet (0.5 ha) only of the 800 ha
available at Maga West. The balance of another piquet would be allotted at
full development in January 1982.
6.        The second group to be resettled would be 500 sare from among the
SEMRY I applicants. Since this group is already cultivating land near the
SEMRY I area, however, they would not move until December 1979. From January
1980, this group and 1,000 sare of Pouss would be employed in the development
and preparation of paddy land, allocated to them at one hectare per sare
(less 5% for nurseries), for cultivation in June 1980 (at Maga West and at
Pouss).
7.        In January 1981, a third group of 1,500 sare would be provided with
1,500 ha at Guirvidig, at one hectare per sare (less 5% for nurseries). These
lands would be developed for cultivation in June 1981. They would comprise
both present residents and spontaneous migrants.
8.        The balance of the land at Maga West -- 200 ha -- and 600 ha of
newly opened land at Maga East would be allocated, in January 1982, at one
hectare per sare (less 5% for nurseries) to 800 sare from among the SEMRY I
applicants, for cultivation in June 1982.
9.        In 1983, 1,600 ha at Maga East would be opened for development and
preparation in January, and cultivation in June. These lands would be allo-
cated, at one hectare per sare (less 5% for nurseries), to the remaining
300 sare of the SEMRY I applicants and to spontaneous migrants. The above
resettlement and land development program is illustrated in the following
Table 1.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Resettlement Schedule
1978              1979             1980              1981              1982               1983               Total         Total
Dry     Wet       Dry     Wet       Dry     Wet       Dry      Wet      Dry      Wet       Dry     Wet          Acreage       Settlers
Season  Season   Season  Season   Season  Season   Season  Season   Season  Season   Season  Season                 (ha)       (Sare)
MAGA WEST (2300 ha)
Acreage cultivation (ha)                                    800                500                                1,000                            2,300
Settlement (Sare):
Prom reservoir area             800               550                                                                                                         1,350
From Maga area                  250                                                                                                                             250
From SEMRY I                                                         500                                200                                                     700
Subtotal:                   1,050                                  500                                200                                                    2,300
MAGA EAST (2200 ha)
Acreage cultivated (ha)                                                                                             600             1,600          2,200
Settlement (Sare):
From SEMRY I                                                                                            600                 300                                  900
Spontaneous settlers                                                                                                     1,300                                 1,300
600              1,600
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                     2,200
POUSS (1000 ha)
Acreage cultivation (ha)                                                     1,000                                                                 1,000
Settlement (Sare):
From Pouas                                                         1,000                                                                                       1,000
Subtotal                                                        1,000                                                                                        1,000
GUIRVIDIG (1500 ha)
Acreage cultivated (ha)                                                                         1,500                                              1,500
Settlement (Sare):
From Guirvidig                                                                                1,000                                                            1,000
Spontanenus settlers                                                                            500                                                              500
Subtotal:                                                                                   1,500                                                           1,500
Total:                                                                                                                                         7,000         7,000



- 66 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Health and Environment
Background
1.        Over the past eight years, Cameroon's health goals have set a prior-
ity on integrated health services for rural areas, preventive medicine and
MCH 1/ services, and the improvement of the quality and quantity of health
staff. These goals are not, however, reflected in expenditures and health
status. Recurrent expenditures on health have declined from 8.7% of the
national budget in 1970 to 4.8% in 1976. Annual per capita expenditure in
1976 was CFAF 920 (about US$4.00). Most of the health budget (71%) is spent
on salaries and training of personnel, 28% on supplies, and 1% on maintenance.
The distribution of funds and services is uneven and urban areas are favored.
In the northern province with a relatively high population density and a poor
health infrastructure, funds for health services are low, and this is re-
flected in the health status of the population.
2.        Health indicators for the northern province show high maternal and
infant mortality rates, estimated at 25 per 1,000 and 190 per 1,000, respec-
tively.  Several factors account for this:  (1) limited access to health ser-
vices by a majority of the dispersed population; (2) lack of trained health
personnel; (3) low quality of health services; (4) insufficient outreach
capacity of preventive programs; and (5) lack of drugs and material at the
health center level.
Health Infrastructure in the Project Area
3.        Existiiig health facilities in the project area and the Department
of Mayo Danai servt: only a minority ot the population. One hospital in
Yagoua, with 120 beds, serves the entire population (180,000) of the Depart-
ment. It is understaffed and overworked. There are 8 dispensaries in the
department, 3 of which are in the project area~ These dispensaries, includ-
ing one run by SEMRY, provide minor outpatient care and have no outreach
capacity. Health programs are not sufficiently developed, and the depart-
mental preventive medicine services which are responsible for endemic/epi-
demic disease control, environmental sanitation, health education, etc.
have not yet become fully operational. The majority of personnel presently
working in the hospital and health centers have received little formal train-
ing. The situation is aggravated by the irregularity of Government supplies
1/   Mother and child health.



- 67 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
to public health facilities resulting in shortages of drugs and other sup-
plies for major periods of the year. No propharmacies (village pharmacies
with limited supplies of prescribed drugs) exist in the area. The only
remaining sources of supply are private health facilities. Of the three
dispensaries in the project area, one is privately run.
Disease Patterns
4.        A survey of outpatients treated at the three dispensaries in the
project area during the months of June, July and August 1976, and January,
February and March 1977, indicates the following diseases prevalent in the
area in order of importance: malaria, bronchitis and bronchopneumonia,
gastro-intestinal diseases, hookworm, skin infections, eye diseases, venereal
disease, schistosomiasis, and measles. The most prevalent disease is malaria.
These diseases are partly the result of poor diets, lack of hygiene, and poor
quality potable water. Only a fraction of the population solicits medical
attention, usually at advanced stages of disease when traditional remedies
have failed. Traditional healers (guerisseurs) and birth attendants (matron-
nes locales) still provide most medical services, and systems of traditional
medicine sometimes conflict with modern systems. The outpatients at the
dispensaries can, therefore, only be treated as indicative of disease pat-
terns, not the actual numbers of sick individuals.
5.        At present, except for a few private wells at Maga, Pouss and
Guirvidig, the population in the project area draws its water supply from
springs, mayos (water courses), and the Logone river. These sources are
used for drinking and washing by both humans and animals. Contamination
and the spread of water-borne diseases result. In addition, stagnant waters
fn the rainy season and months thereafter form a convenient breeding ground
for mosquitoes and snails. The actual incidence of schistosomiasis is not
known since early diagnosis, in the absence of adequate medical facilities
and reluctance on the part of the population to visit doctors, is not pos-
sible.
Project Health Component
6.        The project would increase the potential health hazards in the
project area, particularly malaria and schistosomiasis, through the creation
of the reservoir, which would shrink in the dry season but exist throughout
the year. Given this possibility and the present low status of health and
health services in the area, the project would seek to improve both the
level and coverage of these services.
7.        The key elements of the health program have been tentatively iden-
tified by the Ministry of Health and include:
(a) Training of health personnel in the project area (at
the nursery school in Garoua) following the estab-
lished procedures of the Ministry of Health.



- 68 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b) Construction of a new health center in Maga and three
propharmacies in Yagoua, Maga, and Guirvidig.
(c) Upgrading of the departmental center of preventive
medicine in Yagoua, and the health centers in Pouss
and Guirvidig.
(d)  Program support through SEMRY to improve MCH and
endemic disease control.
(e) Construction of enclosed potable water wells in the
project area above the dike at an average of 1 well
for every 150 families (sare).
Since further preparation of these components is needed, the project would
provide 3 man-months of technical assistance to the Ministry of Health to
develop a comprehensive implementation proposal for review by the Bank.
In addition, a survey would be carried out to assess the epidemiological
situation in the project area and the available health infrastructure; this
survey would also give indications on the relationship between health and
productivity. The health program would be executed by SEMRY under contract
with the Ministry of Health.
Terms of Reference
8.        The project would finance 3 man-months of technical assistance
to the Ministry of Health to review the current health situation in the
project area, in ternrs of prevailing endemic disease patterns, available
health infrastructure, management and budgetary constraints, and to pre-
pare an implementation proposal for the measures suggested by the Ministry
of Health (para.7). Particular attention would be paid to:
(i) the prevalence and incidence of major endemic
and epidemic diseases in the project area and
cost effective modes of intervention;
(ii) the structure and organization of the regional
health care system, especially:
(a) number of health facilities in operation;
(b) level and quality of services provided;
(c)  types of programs planned and constraints
in implementation;



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4
(d) accessibility of facilities, services, and
methods of logistic support;
(e) health manpower requirements;
(f) organizational and management constraints;
(g) recurrent cost problem.
(iii)  The administrative coordination between the Ministry
of Health and the SEMRY project management unit in
implementing and supervising proposed activities.






SECOND 98OE1Y 21CE Y9D7ECT
Oooo Yl-Ooor     1977/78        1978/79         1979/80        1980801        1981/82          1982/68         Tatel t       ocl          Forolle       Y       00e
Fojroet-0o60        I              2              3               4              5                6                         CasI          Bhhmreg
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   4
1 osi Co                                     1,072,324      1,208,396            -              -               _                         2,280,7Z0       436,144     1,824,576       80      229072   10
phycloao CorO8..e390281 000,  264,485  240,609  -           -               -               -           459,144        90,229       364,905                43,804~~4':l4,4  1,22  36,9154~5'~'1'   1
YhyG[cal CotlnSincies2ff/                214,465        241,6S9                                                                        259,465       51 893       207,572                25_947
Exgected Polo-  IDcooacc                        57 905        20,3608
i,344.694      1.651,635           -               -              -                -         2.996,329      599.266     2,397,063                299,633
Bae- oo                                         31,000        120,0 00        0,80            7750            8,00           0,02           8200          2300          6,00          7        0,02      e
2   7rsca i6ction 3 diFe, 0 =                  34,630          8 ,000         25,075         26, 25          200             06,0          129,308       32,723         08,973                 2.930
Yxpeit Frics l-o-ess-                           1,604         19 182          48,006         69 606            '            112,837        347.597        86899        26069                  34 700
37,254        157,182        246,381         273,732        311,392          312,957      0,338,897      334,724     2,004,173                133.690
B3s,   00t00 27n,203.324                                    2,329,396         1307           27,             87104,000                    3.142,72       671.644      2,471,076       70     314,202   10
Physocal Contorgoooles 19            \         29,1023        239,609          25,875         26,833         28,050           26.100        585,4          23,554       461,890         g       8,544
Popoor20 Polos Oooraosor            3~~~~~~9 509  222 740          48.006          9 909             42          13!,!57        607,062       230_792       468,270                90 707
1,382,945      0,808,817        246,302         273,731        311,392          312,937      4,335,226      933,990     3,401,236                433,523
343,990        348,920        22,600           59,32          99,06            99,690      6,124,430      463,032       709,37         60      211,397   18
l.,paool Coartageetes 61%        ~~~3779         46.290          73.305          6,33           0,28            60,036        122,-8        69,692         7903                    ,9
....r oreOcoas                        17,170        5b_2!6           59.751         22.351         48,866         6!2,0Q          26,1          85.93         1Lil1'7,8
398,739        444,426        306.636          07,896        157,944          171,928      1,567,399      613,427       954,160                282,164
hy lc; Cono ngencl                         1,447,324      1,977,296         349.00         036900          29403           273,99       4,327,130    1,136,686      3,090,434       74      303,663    2
PAyaloal Coolo800rOas 203  856,694  330,963  43,288          32,070         38,078          36,336         704,229      279,266       337,963 Il 24          8137724
o ct sd FrIcs IOroos.s.                         76.479        274 978         107.757         91,957        143,208          174,837        571,436      2l_41          636,96L               108294
1,780,687      2,253,243        553,837         361,627        469,336         484.885       5,902,dl3    1,347,417     4,355,398                7L5,687
EQUIPWEdT
A oar CooZY Equl7m 11 812,230                                 634,700         417,700         91,740        490,850           82,650      2,529,870       324,803     2,203,865       87
Expaect1d0010.e000122o 93.                     207,911         76,035          20,885          4,587         24,542           40233         2324,63        O600        204,693
raparral Orbe loroocara              1~~~~   ~~,468  20_302       87O/2%          27,261        192/241           40, 701       378,251       36.926        920,645
921,309        733,737         325,863        123, 88        707,633          127,484      3,139,614      409,411     2,730,203
n'     , Co t           7,                       4,805            033           15 328         2,798         63379            6343           L698LQ         2526        24E284 7L4
Espoorod Poto-  I-rcssas.                        3.834          2,016         6  383          16,630         26,461           34,190 -       8_461         13,41         06,020
104,732         19,551         38,473          75,396         97,423          609,903        442,300       66,483       374,023                   -
8020~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  :                ~                                                                  : Prs9343  652,0  448.260  147,708  558,4r8  191,6  2,666,899  006,303  0,449,396  60
PhyaOcal Co-tlo...Osa 92.                      108,346         77,570          22,423 6        7,39           27,921           7,598        248,303        29,326       218,977
12,300        4,3//I/         93,663          43,591        2820707           74.832        467/2         7l,l47       393,095
1,O26,061        753,288        364,336         198,984        805,056          234,389      3,582,114      475,896      3,106,218                  _
A   sEhdY 3/
Coar3ioL contlnScncies 7/'                      8,243        3L0,30          63,35           9              9061  723       8243207     332,74E        90371'3      239,077       72       4335 0    6
Phystoo  Coooorootea74                      413           2,345          4,76           3491            6,42            642           2432Il3 ,5 4I0l
Fopsotrd PrOte Iooroaoeo                           329          3,659          13,563         20,973         31,884           41,707        L122115        34,292        77,823                18,127
8,985         35,474         81,714          95,083        117,363          130,634        469,255      137,299        331,956                75,503
4   6opcort Seroto., Cor 50CEE63
Oooe GoaL                                       0003l=Xencles S/   <2yg432  64,z0903  3303 763  3L237Zd2     35L23 06        353238          6 08035     64,04 922,741               Il        8,4`4  65
PhysOcol Crutiogsrcooe 30           ~~~~~2,55S2     3,203           2,0            2,6             ,6              8,72          I212,0         ,0             ,0                      2
ErPeorsd  Plos I=rrsasa.                         2.037          7,760           7,363         10,471          13,801          17.353         58 765       14_891         4,4 074                8,81
33,637         75,Q40         44,363          47,471         50,801           54,353        327,665       81,916        245,749                43,10
Oasr Co.r                                      53,205          94,393          99,623        104,299         114,477         117,758        588 843        37,6935      431,148       73       91,729   16
PhysiosO Cortl=Keoooea                          2,963          4,720           6,528          6,811          8,004            8 L69         37,197        12,537        24,660                 3,982
CrpaotoO Polar rr,rreseoa                        2.366          1l,399         20,926         3I,44          45,685           59,060        )70,880       48 983        1217897                26 942
64,622        110,514        126,077         142,334        168,166          184,987        796,920      219,213       577,705                124,653
k      .se . 220                                39,928         86,320         104,520        129,440        109,8Ao           50,040        -2k,088          -          528,088      I00       32,809   10
Eopeooed Polos lorersos                         /1 597         10,642          22,263         60,126         45 584           30 340        150752           -          150752                 1587
41,525         97,162         126,793        169,566        155,424           88,380        678,984         -           678,640                67,884
2.  loso1 P-ooono
5a-e Cct                                        23 ,780        67,070         105,685        037,675        1502,00          183,865        670,855       670,955          -                   49,703    7
0000--40 FrI-a rorreosso                           931          8.249          22,511         42,680         63,446           97,080        234 917       234,917          _                   L7,913
24,731         75,329        128,196         180,355        216,326         280,945         905,872      905,872           -                   89,886
3 Ytld 56Eh80 Oesosonool
00as  Coco                                      63,706        253,320         210,225        267,115        262,720          241,705      1,199,043      670,955        529,388       44      102,512    9
Oxpec300 PIrie Irrreooes                         5 548         18,8r 1        44,774          82 806        109,030          127 620        385,669       234,917       150 752                32 263
66,856        172,481        254,979         549,921        371,730         369,325       1,584,712      905,872        678,840               134,780
Bora  Coat                                     213,552        244,200         144,969        2I8,4.8        122,302          120,042        973,232       97,323        875,909       90       72.992   7 S
Orproord P7Iao Io'rroo1s17 084                                 40,547          37 613         46 22          57,360          70_65          269,296       29,83         242 366                20 197
230,636        284,807        182,281         174,635        179,662         190,507       1,242,528       124,253   1,18,275                   93,189
722e boIt 14,182                                               16,302 Ix,970                  21,934         24,538           23,050        L18,980       118,980          -                    5,949    5
Zopecocd Polclmcreaces                          3567           2 006          4,041          6/8ffQ         10,183           122L70         35760        35767                                   _ 173k
14,749         18,312         23,011          28,734         34,721          33,220         LS4,747      154,747           -                    7,737
D            Coco T2,000                                               14,500         14,500         14,500            -               -             55,s00       55,500          -                     6,083   11
roporctd Prkoasotcreasoc                           480          1,704          m,O,9           4,493           -                              9,848        98848                                1 083
12,480         16,284         17,589          18,995           -                _            65,348       65,348           -                    7,188
Oece Ccov                                      303,442        428,656         3881343        431,957        409,560          384,797      2,3461755       942,758     2,403,997       60       187,358    a
EptiPe  ree20,679  63 228     89 517         140 328        176 573         210 233         700,500      307,462        393,IIE                5,336
324,121        491,.85        477,860         572,285        586,133          395,052      3,047,333    1,230,220      1,797,L13               242,894
Baaa Coco                                       17.487         42,442         40,791          30,Q09         37,440           35,I8I        203,838        01,314       191,824       90       13,985   7 5
toprotr3SPCoo 110000000                       ,,,re=i/        35220           8 688          12 /117        153338           18.949         610211        6221          53090                 4_59
I8186         47,662          49,479         51,206         52,978           54,836        274,349       074,433       248,9I4                 20,376
ors le st                                    2.733,977      2,894,109      1,372,117         959,733      1,405,955          994,094     18,331,985    2,634,996      7,369,999       74      820,941     8
000010a1310.3ontIoeoooo                        363,075        383,039          78,183         47,166          74,003          32,003        9902729       216,109       781,620                67.706
Exp-ect  Pr.te l-.c.eas                       022 723        379,143         320,551         39,737        609 711          537 95-      2,8     89      6-7 08r      ,_431    195,163
3,213,677      3,656,391       1,770,789      1,320,656      2,081,669        1,394.050     23,03,533    0,528,803      00,083,350              1,103,810
lot CA24                                             13,117          14,925          7,228          5,415           8,497           6,343          30,502       14,368        41,157                  4,505
10  0003s 0220001, llnd psp9aoation, ri-e  1lllioo  93d olb-r 3q=ipreAn, orh2oloo 3od CoroOrhi8rs (rorso A, 8, Q ood E o2 Tabor 3)
2/  Orriaooa  ahaoa- erd - edi-o  -odje
3/ 8a.oioOivlobo2ks,to,OtOraod oter olIoor wos,oqooprorearb=d OOOosoO
4i/ DL (567), 00060011II  03ao3 KPOol2el  tc60






822772734 7,29177 0/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~27,8
72,272212 717222727 7222                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~590  27',912 -                                                              71279417.7                                               2,
721722 4141                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  74.7-                                          4, --           714,-7
712122 2270                                          1177,770         711.123             -               -               -                -             231,237~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51,0 
2717727 1717771 7177-47727                                                       -            227~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~160   197lB  4-  -l.         -634             -,             ~ 34,775766069                                              4,6
7,77,324       1,4673819                         - 73                             -11.5           1.3272272       4,1,4 7177175                     72       71277       1
7772281717771 1177277171                                    77.1777        777 2617            -               -                -               -              779.417       71 237           777 572                   72 947~~~~~~~~~~~~1,41  "I,  11    Il 41 11  7
117791                                                           7.344.634        7,777,~~~       ~     ~       ~       ~       ~       ~~                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~77  -~"  l-  4-  ~ ,f  1,47,774 7224       1767  727,-3
29.7177  11,777  77,772  46,272         46,727           36,727           747,77~~~~~17"0 1,50             4I
7771777722 71271717212                                 7.7177         74.777           14,777          14,777           15.7717         74.777            13,7717~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il  41    11
62272242777722                                                                                    .77             4207            1,177           ,1177            7,107-,77714,17576074
64,400                                                                                      14~~_____  11.47 77177 77  0  2   7774~
7772222217 02721 7,222,7,2                          1 4174          79.162          40.774          79 404          .ZPSZ            111,857          747 127        27 737          777 070                    34,747~~~~~~~~~~~3n7  1,75  _-2  11
72777717747    ~ ~ ~ ~~~.2                   133,0                                                                 -                                                                -8,97                           - 
0227722171722622                                                                                  77,0_774        72,774: '1.0     77,7000,                                                           25777 
7187771                            2777                                                                                                     ,               .--                                               7.7
62 d2 1711747227.2              -4,77                                                                                  ,07              ,77             --7,2  
97,2 77,1                                                                                     59~~~~5-14~,377  2347 297                         057              247             577             1607          4,3                707           7          103       1
81yIl7772772172,7                                                                                                    745             21,1175         127                 1             "I8             0757511        7,12770I        'o,
02922,20 02122 122227227                                               ,,,,,,,,           3.277            7.277          2 0177           7 727            7 437            20.377        17,074 722737                              3717I~ 
77974                                                                     77~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~    ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~,171 3710  78,383  3,178  4,730  0-,74     174,415       21.77             71.69                      7
2286264772739  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 277227217115                                                             3813                                              0,3         ~       ,m11,2
77                                                 1         111 72                                    4177          17.7                              1-               -,                -               7070          707               3,37          3            77     7
27.2.02772227221272172729.                                                 737           02,737~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  4   176,           ,,7:                                                           Z677041,5   050      2~ ,277
72927217 22726 722272277                                      752           17777              -                               -                               27 043        Il 727            3.010                     2962~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7'~  6 4
5727,1,                                                               6,703         ~~~~~~~~~                                                    ~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~157,57494  -1  _48-  545  140,770  41,1481  417,27712,7
7217 7727,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~                                7~~~~~~ 700                        - 4072         3,, 1______11_39                                 56,3          170.17            -.114223.
722767441                                                                                                                                         ---7.477-7                                                                      3.1             7         112       1
?O,27  7799827   77 -0                                                                                                           -                                                                -647                           7,7        ,-6                              ,0






CAMER0ON
SECOND SEM8Y RICE PROJECT
apexPditec  Escisea.s   Eqsic-e-e
(CFAF '000)
Ulit         NO    Fiscal Tsar    1977/78             1978/79         1979/80        1980/81         1981/82         1982/83           Ttlai            Local        Foreige         2        Ta
Ceat                Prajact Year-        I                2              3              4                5               6                              Cast          Exchnge
A       FORCE AC00UNT EQUIPMENT
Hacvy Ercthroving Eqeipaset                                                              -                -              -               -               -               -             677,221
Vahidles                                                                                -                 -              -                               -               -             118,710           -              -                     -
O & M Eqeipc .                                                                                           -_                             -               -               -             158.614           -              -                     -
545,455         409,090             -              -               -               -             954,545          95,454       859,091         90        -
Spare Paris 102                                                                    54.545           40.910                                                                          95.455            9546         85,909
Basa Cast                                                                         600,000          450,000            -              -               -                           1,050,000          105.000       945,00Q
Physical Caccieactas 15%                                                           90.000           67,500            -              -                -               -             157.500          15,750       141.750
TOTAL                                                                          690,000          517,500            -              -               -               -           1,207,500         120,750    1,086,750                    -
bLAND PREPAgATION EQUIPME15T
105 hp Tracter vith Ritch                     14,000        6                           _                 -            14,000         280000          28,000           14,000           84,000           -
105 hp Tracter tith Tealbar                   15,300        3                           -              15,30Q            -            15,300             -             15.308           45,900
140 hp Trac-tr vith Hithc                     20,000        3                           -                              20,000           -             20.008           20,000           60,000
Flac vlch 28" Discs                             4            6                                                          4,000           8,000           8,000           4,000           24,000           -              -                      -
FlIa  1ith 36" Diac.                            5,500       3                            -                -             5500             -              5500            5.508           16,500           -              -                      -
Teck Treck (fuel)                               8,500        1                           -                _             8,500            -               _               _               8,50-
Service Tr-ck                                  9,500        1                           -                 -              _               -              9,500            -               9.5Q0           -              -                     -
Be.e CsEt                                                                                           15,300          52,000         51,300           71,000          58,800          248,400          37,260       211,140         85       -
Flhyslcel Ceetigeecias 5%                                                            -                 765           2,600          2,565            3,550           2,940           12,420           1,863        10,557
Espacted PFrice I-crees..                                                            -               1847           10.865         15.244           27.807          28.956           84.719          12_708        72.011
TOTAL                                                                                            17,912          65,465         69,109         102,357          90,696           345,539          51,831       293,708                  -
C       FARM HACH1NERY AND IPU%TS
Redits Tara Credit
C-rts 1/                                           80     1,169                         2,400           10,400          10,400         18,640          25,840          25,640           93,520          23,380        70,140         75
PFdaI Thrashcrs 2/                                 35     1,637                        1,890             6,330           6,300         11,340          15,750          15,750           57,330           8,600        48,730         85
la.ee.al Credit
F-rtilier-  3/                                 19 25/ha                               91,823                            13,860        25.988           25.988          27.720          185.379          18.538       166.841         90
Base Cest                                                                          96.113           16,700           30,560        55.968           67,578          69,310          336,229          50,518       285,711         85
Fhyalcel Ceeclngancias 5%                                                           4,805              835           1,528           2,798           3,379           3.465           16.810           2,526        14,284
Expacted Price I-....                                                               3J134            2,016           6.385          16.630          26.466          34.130           89.461          13J441        76.020
TQTAL                                                                          104,752           19,551          38,473         75,396           97,423         106,905          442,500          66,485       376,015                   -
B         TOTHE EQUIPMEN4T, VEi8CLES AhD1 FR005008006
DIRECTQRATR 6ENERAI
Vehiclea 4/
Diratcor Gnstral                                2,200        2                          2,200             -               -              -              2,200            -               4,400
Oseler st.ff 5/                                 1,400       i1                          7,000             _              1,400           -              7 000            -              15,400
Execuativ  Airpl-ae                            20,000        1                           -              20,000            -              -               -               -              20,000
other Equipcsnt
HReee Purniters                                                                         2,000             -               -              -               -               _                2,0Q0
office Furniture & Eqeip.ect 6/                                                        11.500                     -               -                      -               -               11.500
Basc Ceat                                                                          22,700            20,000           1,400           -              9,200                           53,300            7,020       46,280         87        -
Fhysleel Ceatitgancies 5%                                                            1,135            1,000              70           -                460            -                2,665             351         2,314         87
Exp-cted Prica  -ecrees.a                                                              906            2,415             292           _              3.603            -                7.216             950         6.266
TOTAL                                                                           24,741           23,415            1,762           -             13,263            -              63,181           8,321        54,860                   -
1    Cep-ed et 1 cart fcr ev-y 7 failis
2/   Ccepuead  tI 1 thr-hr fer every 5 failies
3/   PYI fsetili..t cesta reprts-nt SEMEY I raqeiremters, othar c.sta are iecrcental   Prica- vithoat *ub-idy   era = CFAF 85,000/t. 
onivc  aclphate = CFAF 65,000/t   F-rtilitsr raqeirceenat pFa  ha *rs 150 kg ersa  nd 100 kg  -assci-a sa1phasa
4/          l-daa fer DI, 7 OCV scattle  cges fer oth-r sesice staff  VThcles repl-ccd cfter 4 yaars
S  e,o   tff   Deput DG, Di  of Ad=ini. tr ti   & Ei-ace, Wt terM-nagllt Sp..i.li.t, Chief Ac-out-t,
Eatealesi Coordinat-r *nd Diitctor cf R.s.arch
6/   Icl'ddes phoccopying aqeippaet, calcelaters, typevritars, equipesnt fer  eeereleglcel ebsarvaticea aed
se_d  tra-ervatien et the rasearch sctice






VCPjotote                                                           tt                                                                                          r,
j- Oxer                                                                                      
t,O    o                                         jn |  o           o                                                     C           n                       c
O  n.                             neen   -t 'tM0                  t-j                   OjCt         Z0  o   nj0Oj t n   t  n-ont-. o-0--j-u,
iC nie             n j           n-. to   n        on.          t n- j-      -o       non-            -ntoj   ni          - n  -C eo    o     
000                   le jo-t         n-t-t       n non                  nn-n-n                                                                     j
n    -                       _ c   -     nn           o               - 0c              -n o n ~ ~ ~                   E n nEwn  
n, cn                           -X-Z                                      ~       Z-E    ntt-                        oe-
wi~~~~ -n                                o-jO nj-.0 n0 0 nn                                        nn                -nC    Oi
t- nn                          O          -t w-                  n          n    n    n-                            non-hoMoWon
n  ->              t-to      g    t-       n ~    n                        j-j          n      t   eemn         _               -t---t                     me     W|_ag3a   i.
O  on       o        on     cj   o        j' o                  e   n0                              t- Ot   n-                   n- nO003 
ton                   n          -n                   o 
on o                                                                                                         - _-            n    siiOoSS 8g
l-f          r ~    jU  erg  8    .j                                   oswoo       
n-t                                                                                             n-tsu       3             ci o           O;
t-                            OC C r0 l    O   L O  Me e                           eeOe= u._        O  e -    j`jO   Ojn    -o o- -
U; i l >  B cii; WO   |                              C     I                                                                                 O     
    | wo r   |o   t                                  O_Mw   |     0x M
u. ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    F--        Feeen                 jrn     O                                                    .c-n--
z~~~~~ ~~~~ 0                                                             0 0 0                        e        0         0 0
on nlq
01   xassv  |  1 | | 1 1@  @ @ 1@ @ | | | . . . x~~~~~~~O                                                                                          -
O  jj tttj          tttj                        ni 000             jjtt          Mj-       OO'        j jo-j  j M                               MOt- 






CAdgROON
00C00 _18KV s7CE PEOJYCT
gsneendltore Estlroce: Ope5ratton and Maintentance
(CFA7 '800)
Fiscal Yece                                   1977/78         1978/79         1979/80         1980/81        1981/82          1982/83           Total          l,s-1         Foret         Y            TRc       Y
Proje-t YTan                                     i               2               3               4               5               6                              Ccct         ERehange
A.   MAIN CIVIL MORES 1/
Base Cst                           -               -             15,965          15,965          22,807          22,807            77,544          62,036       15,508        20            13,957   18
Phystial Coptingeccies 15X         -               -              2,394           2,394           3,421           3,421            11,630           9,304        2,326                       2,093
Eaperted Prce Incre- sos           -               -              3.653           5,195           9,7S3          12JOO             30,931         24_745         6 186                      35367
TOTAL                           -               -             22,012         23,554          36,011          38,528           120,105          96,085        24,020                     21,617
B.   BUILDINGB  AND OT8HR CIVIL W836K  2/
DIRECTORATE CENERAL
Rosidonce ccd Office
B-se Ccc-                          -               -               -                644           1,288           1,932             3,864
c-t te sELr21 II
(560. cf Race Ceet>               -               -                                3 261          721           1,082             2,164           1,298           866       40               390   18
Physcitl Coctingeccrs 5%          -               -               -                 18              36              54               108              65           43                          19
ERpected PTia    -.crea.s.        -               -               _                107             282             533               922             553          369                         166
TOTAL                           -                                                486           1,039          1,669             3.194           1,916         1,278                        575
SEMRY Il UNIT
astff Q-oate-e                        -               -               -                510           1,845           3,465             5,82Z
office                                -               -               -                250             750           1,250             2,250
W-eka~hoP--                                                                           -                180             200               300
Oc/Clcbl...-                                                                          400             80L           1,200             2,400
EeRlth ser-ces                        -               -               _                295             590             957             1,842
lace Ceca                          _               _               _              1,455          4,085            7,072            12,612          7,567         5,045        40             2,270   18
physical Ceclleeccie2 5`/.                                                          72             204             354               630             378          252                         113
Enpected Paice Incasa-.e           -               _               -                432         1.600            3,483              5,515          3_309         2,206                         993
TOTAL                           -                                              1,959          5,889          10,909            18,757          11,254         7,503                      3,376
C.   OTHER EQUIPMENT AbD MAC81NYRY
DIRECTDRATE OENERAL
Vejicre  3/                          4,050 5/        0,100           9,45D           9,450           9,450           9,450            49,950           7,490       42,458        85             e,49c   13
Ec-cli-e Airplafo  15%                -              3,000           3,000           3,000           3,00Q           3,000            15,000           2,250        12,750       85             2,250   15
OffiCc  EqOlpmeec 15%,                              1725            1,725           1,725           1,725           1.725             8625           4313          4,312        50             2.156   25
Base Ceat                         4,050          12,825          14,175          14,175          14,175         14,175             73,575          14,055       59,520        81            11,898   16
Cect te SEMRY II
(56% eL coce (est               2,268            7,182          7,938            7,938          7,935           7,9398           41,202           7,871        33,331        80            6,663   16
Phyccrt Ccntngcnlsc  9        114            359             397             39 7            397             397             2,861             394         1,667                        333
Erpected Pric I-cr..os.             91             867           1.659           2,359           3,109          3.909             11.994           2 291        B 703                       1 940
TOTAL                         2,473           8,408           9,994          10,694          11,444          12,244            55,257          10,536        44,701                      8,936
SEhRY II
Office Eqoiprano 157.                 -               -                372              3              373             375             1 500             750           750       50               375   25
Wcrkahc  IG/,                         -               -              4,110           4,110           4,110           4,110            16,440           2,466        13,974       85             2,446   15
G-r3ge ccd Mtahice Pa-k 5%            -               -              7,500           7,500           7,500           7,500            30,000           4,500       25,500        85             4,500   15
WAterrcerko sDd Orservote 5%.         -              1,              1,600           1,600           1,690           1,600 1,000 1 6200                              6,800       85             1,200   15
ilclclyNa-ok 3%                               l300            1,300           1,300           1,300          1,300             6,SB               975        5,523        82               973   13
Trlrph-ce setn. rk 5%                 -              2.500           2,200           2,500           2,500           2,500            121 0Q           1,875        10,625       85             1,875   15
Vah cLcr  3/                         5,400 5/       16,200          20,250          22,950          22,950          22,950           110,700          16,605       94,095        85            16,605   15
Boatc 4/                               125 5/          250             500             590             500             500             2,375             356         2,019       85               356   15
ealah S-rci-c  6/                      450 5/        1,268           1,347           2.507           2,853        _2,786              11,211           1,682        9,529        85             1,682   15
Basa Cost                         5,975          23,118          39,482          43,342         43,688          43,621            199,226          30,409      168,817        85            30,034   15
physirc  Ccntingancie- 5%          299           1,156           1,974           2,167           2,184          2,181              9,961           1,520        8,441                       1,502
Expacted Prica I_cr a.e.            238           2,792           8,25101279                     17,110         21_481             62,750             57        53172                        9,460
TOTAL                         6,512          27,066          49,706          58,388          62,982          67,283           271,937          41,507       230,430                     40,996
D~ SUPPE  SERVICES FOR ENGINEERENG
CQNSLLTANTS (SOEA4H)
Bacc Cccl                       51,048           64,095          35,238          35,238         35,238          35,238           256,095          64,024       192,071        75            38,414   15
PhysIcal Conclgoeioa 5%           2,552           3,205           1,762           1,762           1,762          1,762            12,805           3.201         9,604                       1,921
Erpected Paire  2creases          2,037          7,740            7,363          10,471         13,801          17,353            58,765           14,691       44,074                       8015
TOTAL                        55,637          75,040          44,363          47,471          50,801          54,353           327,665          81,916       245,749                     49,150
l/   Compuaed at 0.75 cf the b-a  cost cf cala civil  -poks fton PY3, ccd et 1`/ fCac PY5; not  riclding opeeccion
-d noloccdacc  of irrigaalea anA drainage sys-e.
2/  Operstion and rocalnnarcc  cn buildicgs la cacrsat-d catrate cf 07h co original irvosamant in ece fiCr   acd
aCIe  ceec-      lie  1% te tha thrA, 2% 6r tlo foetAL ccd  1 j  rhs 0i8dh aod  yoleo    at..
3/   Ta Os s        ate  -etrs ara1-   - Y bght thc th.Ie 'eg ing cf th oaar Y.-   ros 380,000 kI/prY   cPrracion and
ociotenocca, icclodlng spare Fets, Oc 45 CFA7/kma.
4/   Op-rrtiec  Rnd rsintm4csre o a beat ia 250,800 PCAF/yr.
3/   Only 6  -nah.
6/   Incrludes vehirla  aad diaponcaey,






01,0Te0r0 7L ca     r     1977/07b        1,003          21,000       212286        21/.0D        21,070      128.00 0"
a) TechaLcal Asstfitallbe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ fl 
OoLecor o nr                            11,13333340,000             9,*000        10,000         10,030       21 00         210040 2,000
33333   ADnLtrtan= 33333333  3ib333      0,00                       9,'000        00.000         00,000       0000             OO         IbOO         305,002
ChLe A3o30,3,,3         i        b        00                       0OO0          00.000          13 16000     1030            -       _           _        3_
0333            330,                                            01,000         90,000         920,00       04,300        33,000        39,000      4D7,900           -             40030   300         1 0,00   10
4nst to SL33Y 11 36'    33,308         30 .00         30,520       43,400        21.340        20,340      000,003                                       1     22 609
33033.30 3303333333 Iarae                                        i0 597           1 6,3375                 00,94 003S     9034         01,900       52350._0Z,30 -51.0                                 3.52
TOTAL                                                           410,013        00,a30         33,490       01,030        30,331        09,030      000,230          -               00,433             260.04
4)3.3300933333300 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00                                                   54
3,3310 303033343. 0 0430rl   1C 6,000                                -             -              -            0,O       ,000  30.6-000                18,000
00l3i0 33003033 (Cl                     0,1003-                                    -              -             -            4,100         4,100         63200
103033433 03000133082 (0)               6,030                        -                             -           50,00         0.000         3,000       00,000
CemersL A13 3                       2,3 .000                    - 1,-        2,0D0           2,000        2,00          2,000         0,0-0        01,000
0030301  20033,000                                             1,000          2,000          2,000        2,000         2,000         2,000         11,000
430080e                             2,000                      3,000          2,030          2,000        2,000         2,000         2,000        11,3000
301000034                               700                        300           700             000         7003           700           700         3,330
O ok,                                400                       1,300         3.200           3,000        ,3,00         0,200         3W003        17,500
3331313333 cc 0333  010                 030rv S      300                1900   I,bOO           LO            ,8030        I,b00         1,003         9,300
00rtc77033030                                                                    700            700 700       700                         70033  3   039a0
Clerk                        ~~~            ~           ~~~400  200 00    100         30            400           400           400        2,100
3301001403 313300,3
033333 =00 SOO00                                                               1200            L 200        1,200           600           600        3,400          _                 __
93,0 0303                                                       10,500        01,000          21,000       36,000        43,320        46,50D      12I,330       ISI.500              -           O 014510    6
0333s 33 57dSY3 Il 55X                                           5,d33        03,030          11.760       33,133        23,040        26,040      101,340        330,040             _0.101
70rAL!                                                           5,115        13,205          14,265       26,410        36,S47        19.7S9      136,6332       136,633_                              00300
o) Totl 01esoo3330333030
3333 0333                                                       45,00S        63,200         00,203        51,600        40,300        47,630      03,2932        101,040           2Z9,389      69   0340 34 
Ooooo3oo 03333 Ooooooo,,                                        .1,52!          73,           13,47  1      9.5  03.33   L955 5129,291              97.342         34.330           30 300O03
73TAL                                                           47,640        71,063         76.739        S0,696        67,751        03,144      417,070        3936,6332        250,206             35974
*) 7 F^nLeaI AsaLsE03,330 18,000                                          19 0000A/                   10,000         00OO   I,033  10,000       33.000
OhIof, 0033,3  0o0 00333030333033L     3017,DOO                                   7,000         10,030        10,003        07,330                     006,000_
3330333033 00000                       00.000                        .             .              .           37,000        1733 00                    0 4,3000
30301034430                            03ef1,300                                  9 ,000 11     13,000        20,000        00,000          -          63,000
3oo400033 00,1,31 00430                                              -             -             -            1030 3OO      1.030         00,003       01.3000                   
3-o, 33 Cs                                                                    350D0    3,000  5030         33,30         00,303o       3,   30,0   303,000          -              000,232      I00    30,030   10
33303300 33330333333030s                                                       4.101L         1128         27,2SO        y6 9,20       *9 ,O5       9S34006         _               96402               9,840
TOYAi                                                             -           39,3033        64,289       1L3,203       124,320        33,300S     390,402          -              398,402             33,840
33L,0 )03330333=rs1
00103. Acoo3 4 4Ad0303301103 33 (C    ,3000                       -             -              _             -             -            0,000        3,000
0030331330.13 C13>f  0C,0300                                                -              -         _                        -            6,300        0,3000
loti 033333003410 i   3                 0,033 (6  S                                              0,  O   600 4000  6,00  0    ,030o        3,009       330,033
Oopooy (c)                              4,0DO                        -             -              -             -                          44,3
003031314 00,000 5/ (C)                 4,000                        _                            _            _             4,000         0,033        0,33
3333,3 (0)tL8Cte  C                     4,000                        -             -              -             -             -            4,000        4,000
6evu  (C                     ~~~~4 00                                    ,0              MCD        SDO           SOO              O             0
43330,3 30o DL!IT (S)                  10,000                       5,0          3000            10,002      10,000         20,000          -          31,000
(C)                    4,003                        -             -              _            -              -            4,000        4,300
0303333 C3430 6/ (e)                    4,000                       0,000         6,DD0          4,000         3,000         0,30D         3,000       3300,03
333e (C)                                1,003                        - d,O00                     2.000         0.000 6       0,303        0,030       03 400
0300,0 (C)                            2,000 - 0,000                               2 0,033        0,000         0,000         3,300 _/      3,333       10,000
003o3, 90303 40333334y 301              4,0020                                     -              _           4,300          4,300         4,000       40,3000
3330033333 O3oOOooo  o>                 4,200--                                    -             4,000 4(C  4,000                          4,0         16',3000
A3310343040310  303300130 (c)           2,000                        .             0,00          2,000         0,000         3,000         0.990       13,0903
Ye33331011382,0001,000  2,000  2,300                                                          0,003         2,000        ,2000          2,000       10,000
001,3f, oppoo, 20333333             2000                       1,000         2,00n           2,000        0,300         3,000         2,000       10.000
00130, Solo,                         2,000-                                     -              2DD          2,0            ,0       ,00  4,OO0,00  0,.
POoO4oOOoo, 1333443, 033002000330
,poty                                                           18320313  3370 0,030  -  -    9,030         0,003         0,300         0,000        9,O00
1,Latoo,oo  0044343003                03000D.                                  1,000           0,000        2,300         0,000         2,000        3,400
3334g0413 0131,13o001otx             2,03    0,000                                            3 ,000   3 ,000  5,003     7,       000  0.3          24,000
13ori23 tion 3333L.t3                2,F000                        90          0,300          *,0 3O ,300                7,000          0,000       20,000
031     3 003303                                                17,90C3S00   003717303        1,9000        1,9030       15,00        0D2,9003      43,300        n2a7o               _3,2
WTa0                                                            10,020        33,00S          34,333      200,63        12,00 00.00   01,333       333.070        363,000             _                45,446
WTAL0 060,30190 .,616                                                         91,353         -30,6        25,53         245,220        -,67        966 472        36007             359,40
0330111023 Ag                             311 525                                   325          3,033 9       2,412.5       9,2F00        7 03079     40, 115 3
83333013  03o30                           200                        _            2,240          9,9e0        15,903        21,40         26,000       75,6000
3,3336003333                              0220                       _               0             770         I 430        2O 200         2 970        7,90          _
93330330                                                          .-           4.311          00,11        295 215       41,340        52,023      I43,415       143.415              -                 7,5n-
Oopo,o0 PoI303333333                                             - _9355                     O 435        90057         13.9          07.40        37 755       57 733 5                                 C211
wYa41,                                                            -            5,065          19,360       33,272        59,779       70,434       201.170        30130               _                10,020
1/ 3lx 003343, 013 D, 1339 - /000 33, 0903.                                                                                                                                                                                                  F
131) 33303 '  olf i  id 4 * 34033 i 1th; 30,1 o,  op Se   3 D00,003 338 3080  0.d230,; 530,000 - 2,000,00033F 
4/ 30,0 bLob  40odl39 o 3331033  030r 3303303333ot00
F/ 4e103333313  34o30333  03310301
Z/ Tb 3o3o303000d by 3030340
S/ 33403 30030 03003.s






C'AMEROON
SECOND S0MRY RICE PRO2 ECT
Erpendituce Estimates: Personnel
(CFAF O00)
Uait Ceat     MIID-  Fis.cl Yer-  1977/78            1978/79         1979/8O        19i80/S        1981182         1982/83          Total            Local         Foreign       7            Tcx         7
M h      rejcit Year-    I                2               3              4              5               6                             C-se         leehange
D.  ENG1INER1IN6, ALVISORY & SDPERVISORY
SLRVICES
Overall Froject lespeeaibillty
Frejeet P...t Rageat                          2,280       36                     22,600          22,600         13,560          11,300         6,780            4,520        81,360            8,136          73,224
iopeeeisocy & eassltaecy
Sereicec                                    2 100       13                      6,300           4,200          4,200           4,200         4,200            4,200        27,300            2,730          24,170
Feo ject ingissar                             1,968       20                     19,600          19,600           -              -             -                -             39.200           3,920          35,280
Dlesign Englacer                              1,586       35                      15.860         15,880          4,758           4,758         3,172            3,172         47.530           4,758          42,822
Proejet Techeictan                            1,531        6                       9,192          _               _              -              -               _              9,192             919           8,273
Sobeetal                                                                       73,552         62,260          22,518         20,258        14,152           11,892        204,632          20,463         184,1.9                   13,347
lapeevialea Ceelcaci Works
Centeoller cf Weeka (2e)                      1,710       31                     22,750           31,500          -              --                             -             54,250           5 425         48,825
Soil Macheeles Opeclalin                     1,750       13                     10,500           12,250          -              -             -                -             22.732           2.275          22,475
Tepegrepiser                                  1,750       13                      10.500          12.250          _                                                           2 7              2,275          20,475
Sebtecal                                                                      43,702           56,000                                                                      9 _  -  -  09,750  9,975        89,775                    7,481
iexeaTiee Ferce-Accouet Woaeka
Site Manager                                  2,100       60                      21.000         21,080          21,000         21,000         21,000          21,009        126,000          12,680         113,400
cEesteaetiea Segies.r                         2,100       54                      16,800         21 000          18,900         18,900         18,900          18,900        113,400          11,340         102,060
Seperiateedant af Wo-ka (2x)                  1,750      102                      21,000         31,500          31 500         318500        31,500           31,000        178,100          12.030         160,850
Tepegrapher                                   1,750       52                      12,250         15,250          170 5 7   15.730              12,700           15,750        01,250           9,100          812,92
Bildiag Sop-ret-daet1,0                                 23230                                  15,750          14,000          -              -               -             40,2             4,025         2,2
Chi. Macheeie                                2,100       57                      14,700      _21000             21,000         21,000         21.000          21,000        119700           11970          107  7
Subtoala                                                                      96,250        126,000         122,150        108,150        108,150         108,150        668,850          66,885        601,965                    50,164
Totel Base Cot                                                              213,552        244,260        14,868         128,408        122,302          120,042       973,232           97.323        d73,909       90          72,992_    7.5
Expected Price Tecrea                                                        17,084         4547            37,613         46,2527         7,360           70,465       2690296           26,930        242,366                   20,197
TOTAL                                                                       230,636         284,807        182,281         174,635       179,662          190,507     1,242,528          124,253      1,118,275                   93,189
E.   HEALrd PERSONEL
Trsieteg l/                                                                 9,982           5,122          5,122           5,302         5,122              370        31,020
Medealn  Fe_aeeel 2/                                                                 -              2,784           5,448          8,232         11,016          14,280         41,760
nr1ey Pe-eneel3                                                                      4,200          8,400           8,400 8,400    8,400         8,400            8,400         46,200      _
Baee C.nt                                                                    14,182          16,306         18,970          21,934        24,538           23,050        118,980         118,980           -                       5,949        5
TExpected lelce Inocreses                                                        567          2,006          4.04l           6,800        10,183           12,170        352767           35.767         _                         0,788
TOTAL                                                                         14,749         18,312          23,011         28,734        34,721           35,220        154,747         154,747           -                       7,737
F.   SPECIAL. 1060TkAL
Salaries                                        4,000                               12,000         12,000          12,000         12,000          -               -             48,000
l helarahi-F                                                                          -              2500            2.500          2,500          -               -              7,500      _
Basa lest                                                                    12,000         14,500          14,500         14,500         -                -            55,500           55,500          -                        6,105      il
Expected Frice lacressen                                                         480          1,784          3,089          _4             - 4 5,4                                         9,848          _                        1 083
TOTAL                                                                         12,480         16,284          17,589         18,995          -               _            65,348           65,348          -                        7,188
A1DITIONA. C08T TO 8EMRY
Torselctate Iceetel
Techeical Assisteecg
447. of A(a) Base Cost                                                        31,372         40,480          40,480         32,560        17,160           17,160        179,212           -            179,212     100           17,921 3     0
Expected Feice Terrasses                                                       1.255          4.979           8.622        1ioo94          7,121            9,060        41.131            _              41  
TOTAL                                                                         32,627         45,459         49,102          42,654        24,281           26,220       220,343            -            220,343                   22,034
1/ eolodes hrevetfnurses, brevet accoucheone, eseses' aides, propharmaYcy atependaet, teedltlonal birt attendanes sed cansolcancces (1,500 par month) anA scholarshiFs.
2/ Tec1oAa6 brevet onarss, heevet ecconahaers, narnes' aide and ae,sllaiciea.
3/ Inclvdea fiteld sureey persaonnel, laboratory persennel, aeccecery and typist.






CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Inflation Indices Used in Calculating Price Increases
(1976=100)
Fiscal Year                                 1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83  9
Project Year                                   1            2            3            4            5            6
Civil Works                                  104.5        113.9        124.2        134.1        144.8        156.4
Equipment; Operation  and Maintenance        103.8        111.5        119.9        128.3        137.3        146.9
Personnel 1/                                 104.0        112.3        121.3        131.0        141.5        152.8
Engineering Consultants                      108.0        116.6        126.0        136.0        146.9        158.7
1/ Excluding engineering consultants.
F3 >
o M
CD ZC
CDi 



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
CPAF Million                               USS Million                                      CFAF Million                     cS$ Million
Local   Foreign Eachange   Total           Local   Foreign Ench.oge   Total        8ank/lDA            CCCE            FAC       Cm.eroon       B-k/I                     FAC
(66.3%) 1/      (18.7%) 1/                   (15%) 1/
CIVIL WORIS                                             1548           4355          5903           6.32         17.77           24.09        3916             1102            -           885            15.98        4.50        -          3.61
A. Irrigation 1sf rastroctore                              3           401 433753                                        13.88   17 70        2876 809                         -           650 11.74                   3.31        -          2.65
1. Main Civil Works                                ( 599)         (2397)        (2996)         (2 45)       ( 9.78)         (12.23)      (1988)           ( 559)                     ( 449)          ( 8.11)    ( 2.29)                 ( 1.83)
2. Irigation and Drainage Systen                   ( 335)         (1004)        (1339)         (1.37)          4.10)          5.47)      (1888)             250)                       201)            3.63)    ( 1.02)                   0.82)
B. Buildings and Other Civil Works                        614           954          1568           2.50          3.89            6.39        1040              293-                       235             4.24        1.19        -          0.96
1. Project Headquartere                            ( 281)         ( 422)        ( 703)         (1.15)       ( 1 72)         ( 2.87)      ( 466)           ( 131)                     ( 106)          ( 1.90)    ( 0.54)                 ( 0.43)
2. Rice Mill                                       (170)          (397)         (567)          (0.69)       (1 62)          (2.31)       <376)            (106)                      (  85)          (1.53)    (0.43)                   (0.35)
3. Other                                           ( 163)         ( 135)        ( 298)         .(0.66)      ( O 55)         ( 1.21)      ( 198)           (  56)                     (  44)          ( 0.81)    ( 0.22)                 ( 0.18)
EQUIPMENT                                                476           3106          3582           1.94         12.68           14.62        2376              669            -            537            9.70        2.73        -          2.19
A. SENRY Eq.ipsent                                        410          2730          3140           1.67         11.14           12.81        2083              586            -            471            8.50        2.39        _          1.92
1. Force Account                                   ( 122)         (1086)        (1208)         (0.50)       ( 4.43)         ( 4.93)      ( 801)           ( 226)                     ( 181)          ( 3.27)    ( 0.92)                 ( 0.74)
2  Ri.e Mill                                       (158)          (898)         (1056)         (0.64)       (3.67)          (4.31)       (701)            (197)                      (158)           (2.86)    (0.80)                   (0.65)
3. Other                                           (130)          (746)         (876)          (0.53)       (3 04)          (3.57)       (581)            (163)                      (132)           (2.37)    (0.67)                   (0.53)
B. Foar  Machinery and Inputs                              66           376           442           0.27          1.54            1.81         293               83            -             66            1.20        0.34        -          0.27
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                 219           578           797           0.90          2.35            3 25         -                -              -            797              -           -         -          3.25
A. SEMHY                                                 137            332           469           0.56          1.35            1.91         -               -               -           469               -           -         -          1.91
B. Support Services for SOGREAH Consultants                82           246           328           0.34          1.00            1.34         -                -              -           328               -           -         -          1.34
PERSONNEL                                               1250           1798          3048           5.10          7.34           12,44          631             178             970       1269             2.58        0.72      3.96         5.18      c
A. SEMRY                                                    6!                       1 585          3.70           2.77           6.47          -               -               679 _  _                                         2.77         3.70
1. Technical Assistance                            ( -  )         (679)         ( 679)         (  - )       (2.77)          (2.77)                                       (679)       ( -  )                                (2.77)       (   -
2. Local Pesonnel                                  (906)          ( -  )        ( 906)         (3.70)       (   - )         (3.70)                                       ( -  )       (906)                                (   - )      (3.70)
B  SOGREAH Consultants                                    124          1119          1243           0.50          4.57            5.07          631             178             291         143            2.58        0.72      1.19         0.58
C. Nealth Fersoonel                                       155           -             155           0.63             -            0.63         -                -              -            155              -           -         -          0.63
S  Special Training                                        65           -              65           0.27             -            0.27         _                _              -             65              -           -         -          0.27
SHORT-TERM STUDIES                                         27           247           274           0.11          1.01            1.12          182              51            -             41            0.74        0.21        -          0.17
TOTAL PROJECT                                         3520          10084         13604          14.37         41.15           55.52        7105             200              9770       352 9          2900         8.16      3.96        14.40
PFrcent                                               25.9           74.1         100.0                                                     52.2             14.7             7.1        26.0
Net of ta.es                                           2416         10084         12500           9.86         41.15           51.01         7105            2000             970        2425           29.00        8.16      3.96         9.89
Percent                                                19.3          80.7         100.0                                                      56.8            16.0             7.8        19.4
1/ Share of itets financed pari pason.
IN



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Bank/IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank/IDA
Fiscal               Bank     Cumulative          IDA       Cumulative   Bank/IDA   Cumulative
PY    Year   Semester    Loan         Total            Credit      Total        Total        Total
1   1977/78      1         -             - 
2        -              -3.39                       3.39        3.39          3.39
2   1978/79      1         -             -            5.24           8.63        5.24           8.63
2        -              -            3.89          12.52        3.89         12.52
3   1979/80      1       2.86           2.86          1.98          14.50        4.84         17.36
2       1.62          4.48            -                         1.62         18.98
4   1980/81      1        1.71          6.19           -                         1.71          20.69               -
2       0.91           7.10           -                         0.91         21.60
5   1981/82      1       1.45           8.55           -                         1.45          23.05
2       1.86         10.41            -                         1.86         24.91
6   1982/83      1       1.79          12.20           -                         1.79          26.70
2       1.12         13.32            -                         1.12         27.82
7   1983/84      1       1.18          14.50           -                         1.18          29.00
x9
I.-



- 80 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Job Descriptions and Qualifications of Senior Staff
Director General
1.        The Director General would head SEMRY, the umbrella organization
for SEMRY I (the first rice project), SEMRY II (the second rice project)
and the Moulvouday Low Land Development Project.  He would be responsible
for guidance, supervision and coordination of SEMRY Il activities. More
in particular, these activities are related to matters of administration
and finance, agriculture and research, and execution and maintenance of
the irrigation works.
2.        The Director General should be an experienced administrator,
having occupied senior positions in either Government or, more preferably,
commercial organizations. He should have experience in agricultural devel-
opment projects. He should have proven management capabilities, and have
a good command of the French language.
Deputy Director General
1.        The Deputy Director General would assist the Director General in
overall supervision, in liaising with local authorities, marketing organiza-
tions or merchants and in personnel management.
2.        He should have at least three years experience in a senior posi-
tion. Preference should be given to a candidate with experience in admin-
istration and/or financing. The deputy need not have formal qualifications
in agriculture but should have proven management capabilities.
SEMRY Il - Director
1.        The Director of SEMRY Il would have direct responsibility to the
Director General for the day-to-day operations of the SEMRY Il project. His
duties would include:
(a)  control and coordination of project funds, with
the assistance of the Chief Accountant;
(b)  coordination of project activities, particularly-
with the first SEMRY rice project;
(c)  programming and budgeting the annual work pro-
gram; and



- 81 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
(d) reporting project progress on the basis of quar-
terly and annual reports.
2.        The Director of SEMRY II should have had formal training in agri-
culture (at least to secondary level) and experience in broad-based agricul-
tural development. He should have had at least six years experience in a
senior position in development projects, preferably some years in a rice
project. He should be able to demonstrate a successful career and a proven
record of obtaining quantifiable results. He should have a good command of
the French language.
Training Consultants
Terms of Reference
General
1.        A total of approximately eight man-months of specialist services
would be required during the "start-up" phase and again for short visits
during the second and third year of the project to identify specific train-
ing needs of Cameroonians in staff positions on the project in order to en-
sure timely and appropriate training for them. Specialists should be quali-
fied in the identification of training needs and the planning and evaluation
f training programs, with wide experience in the fields of management and
agricultural training.
Responsibilities
2.        Training Specialists will:
(a) during the "start-up" phase of project implementation,
help identify specific training needs of Cameroonian
staff in supervisory and management positions, and
design appropriate training programs which should
include plans for on-the-job supervised practice;
(b) once the project is in operation, help to identify
training needs of various technical staff; design appro-
priate training programs and make recommendations on
how the necessary training should be carried out; and
(c) make recommendations on evaluation systems to assure
the effectiveness of the training.



CAMEROON
SECOND BEMRY RICE PROJECT
srirny Organizational Structure
f Ministry of|    .    | Ministry of ___ Ministry of|
|  Planning |        l Agriculture          Livestock
|COMMISSIONER |             -|BOARD               | 
|                                                             N -   g 12 MEMBERS _j
DIRECTORATE  |
GENERAL    l
I                                I                                  '                        g
i.                                             .
SENRYI                                   SEMRY I II
l                                  execution                        l
______________________________________________________________________-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               x
litFa
c.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SEMRY Directorate General: Organizational Structure and Staff in Charge
D DIRECTOR|
|GENERAL|
DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL
Assistance
Liason
Personnel Management
Supervision
8                                                                ao
F___  __ __________________________   __________________
ADMINISTRATION & FINANCE                       TECHNICAL & RESEARCH                          IRRIGATION & MAINTENANCE
Dir. Admin. & Finance                         Extension Coordinator                          Water Management Specialist
Chief Accountant                              Director of Research
FUNCTIONS                                     FUNCTIONS                                     FUNCTIONS
Administration                                Technical & Development Policy
Personnel Management                          and Planning                                   Supervision of new works
General Accounts                               Inspection                                    Standards for irrigation
Credit                                        Research & Experimentation                     network
Recoveries                                    Seed production                                Supervision of irrigation,
Supplies                                      Supervision & training of field                networkd and maintenance
Rice Marketing                                 staff
Livestock
Fisheries                                                                       .
c> C
r x



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SEMRY II: Organizational Structure
DIRECTOR
I - - - - - - - - - ---- - - - - - -_-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Administration & Finance     Credit, Purchase, Milling.        P r o d u c t i o n   |        Workshop, Maintenance
Personnel Management         Collection, Milling,            Supervision & Programs        Maintenance of Vehicles
General Accounts               Sale                            for Stations                  and Engines
Supplies Accounts            Farmer Reimbursement            Farmer Rolls                  Warehouse Maintenance
Debits & Credits               and Repayment                 Credit & Recovery Policy     IMaintenance of Equipment
Storage                        Control & Supervision           and Buildings
of Warehouses               Construction
Research
Seed Production
Land Preparation
Irrigation & Water Use
Development
-- - - - -- - - -----  ----               -- - - -   -   -- -- -- --
Station               Station              Station              Station
|Maga (West)          .Maga (East)             Pouss              Guirvidig
zones                 zones                zones                zones
- Zone Supervision
- Extension (rice)
- Extension (general agriculture)
- Store Keeping
w l
we



- 83.-
ANNEX 13
CAMISOON                                                Table 1
SECOND Sfl4l RICE PEOJECT
Staffing Pattern ]/
Piscel Year                                   1977/78         1978/79          1979/80         1980/81          1981/82         1982/83
Project Year                                     1               2                3               4                5               6
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
Director General                               1                1               1                1               1                1
Deputy Director General                                                                          1               1                1
Director, Administration
and Finance                                  1                1               1                1               1                1
Deputy Director, Administration
and Finance                                                                                                    1                1
Extension Coordinator                          1                1               1                1               1                1
Water Management Specialint                    1                1               1                1               1                1
Chief Accountant                                1               1               1                1               1                1
Deputy Chief Accountant.                                                                         1
Director, Research                             1                1               1                1               1                1
AdminStrative Secretary                         1               1               1                1               1                1
Accounts, Section Chief                         3               3               3                3               3                3
Secretaries                                    2                2               2                2               2                2
Clerks                                         9                9               9                9               9                9
Dreftemen                                      2               2                2               2                1               1
SUB TOTAL                           23               23              23               25              24               24
SEMRY II
Headquarters Unit
Director                                                        1                                1               1                1
Chief, Accounts & Administration                                1           -                    1               i                1
Deputy, Accounts & Administration                                                                                1
Production Chief                                                                                -1               1               1
Extension Chief                                1                1               1               1
Soil Preparation Chief                                                          1                1               1                1
Deputy Soil Preparation Chief                                                                                                     1
Livestock Chief                                                 1               1                1               1                1
Deputy Livestock Chief                                                                                           1
Marketing Chief                                                                                  1               1                1
Deputy Marketing Chief                                                                                                            1
aie. tMi      Chot f                           1                                                                   1
Workshop Chief                                 I                1               1               1
Traotor Chief                                  1                1               1                1
Deputy Tractor Chief                                            1               1                1               1
Automobile Chief                                1               1               1
Deputy Automobile Chief                                         1               1                1
Chief, Seeds and Nursery
Irrigation Engineer                                                             1                1               1                1
Accounts & Admin. Section Chief                2                2               3                3               3                3
Irrigation Division Chief                                       1               2                3               4                4
Deputy Production Chief                                                         1                1               1                1
Livestock Technician                                            1               1                1               1                i
Administrative Secretary                                        1               1                1               t                1
Irrigation Assistants                                           1               2                3               4                4
Storehouse Keepers                             2               2                2               2               2                2
Clerk.                                         4               12              12               17              17               18
Hygiene/Dispensary Chiefs                      1               1                1                1               1               1
SUB TOTAL                           14                31             37              47               49               50
FIELD STAFF
Station Chiefs                                                  1               2                3               4                4
Zone Chiefs                                                     2               5                8              12               15
Development Agents                                              2               5                8              12               15
Extension Staff                                                16              46               72              94              112
Store Keepers                                                                                   7 2                             1 12
SUB TOTAL                                            23              63              919             134              161
TOTAL                               37               77              123             171             207              235
1/   Excludes lover rice mill staff, field laborers (minly part-time).



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Senior Staff: Cameroonization Targets
1977/78        1978/79         1979/80        1980/81         1981/82        1982/83
Directorate General
Directoral General                   E               E              E               E               E              E
Dy. Director General                         -               -                      C               C              C
Director Admin. & Finance            E               E              E               E              E/C            E/C
Extension Coordinator                E               E              E               C               C              C
Water Man-agement Specialist        E               E               E              E               C              C
Chief Accountant                     E               E              E              E/C              C              C
Research Director                     C              C               C              C               C               C
Semry II
Director                              -              E               E              E               E              E
Chief,Accounts & Administration       -              E               E              E               E               C   x
Production Chief                      -              -                              E               E              E
Extension Chief                      E               E               E              E
Chief, Soil Preparation               -              -               E              E               E             E/C
Livestock Chief                       -              E               E              E             E/C               C
Marketing Chief                       -              -                              E               E              E/C
Manager, Rice Mills                   -              E               E              E               E              E/C
Workshop Chief                        E              E               E              E               E               E
Tractor Chief                         E             E/C             E/C            E/C             E/C             E/C
Automobile Chief                      E             E/C             E/C            E/C              C               C
Chief, Seeds and Nursery                     -               -                      C               C               C
Irrigation Engineer                   -              -               C              C               C               C
Note: E = Expatriate;  C = Cameroonian.
Manyears:E=64 man years;  C = 43 1/2 man years.



- 87 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Research
Introduction
1.        Applied research for SEMRY I and SEMRY II would be carried out at
the Vounaloun research station near Yagoua. Under the first SEMRY project,
research had been entrusted to the French Institut de Recherches Agronomiques
Tropicales (IRAT) until early 1975, when its contract expired and a Cameroon-
ian agronomist became head of the Vounaloun station. Research has now vir-
tually come to a stand-still there, since the. agronomist has taken the place
of SEMRY's departed assistant technical director, and rice seed multiplica-
tion is the station's main activity. Moreover, the station lacks essential
equipment to register meteorological data and trial results, and to ade-
quately store variety collections.
Need for Research
2.        There is a clear need for adaptive research because:
(i) more suitable varieties for the specific agro-climatic
conditions in northern Cameroon are available than
presently used by SEMRY;
(ii) present practice of seedbed preparation and water
control in the dry season leads to retarded vegeta-
tive growth of the seedlings, late transplanting
and insufficient tillering in the field;
(iii) the open area around the plants at harvest time
indicates that plant density is too low;
(iv)  only nitrogen fertilizers are used, whereas the
few fertilizer trials that have been carried out
show that relatively modest applications would
significantly increase yields;
(v) the present amount of nitrogen applied in both
the dry and wet season is 90 kg/ha, while for
increased yields in the dry season with prob-
lems of stunted growth due to low temperature
in the early stages, the nitrogen application
should be higher;



- 88 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
(vi)  fertilizer applications are not properly timed
and thus do not induce maximum tillering and
panicle initiation; and
(vii)  pests and diseases, which so far have not become
of economic importance may do so in the long run
and therefore must be monitored at an early stage.
Applied Research Program
3.        Under the proposed project, applied research would be strengthened
through a technical assistance agreement with the Institut de Recherches
Agricoles et Forestieres (IRAF), the agency which is now responsible for
food crop research in Cameroon.  IRAF would draw up and supervise an applied
research program to be carried out by SEMRY. The project would also provide
equipment for the Vounaloun station.
4.        The research program, which would be communicated annually to the
Bank for comments, would focus on sustaining over an extended period of time,
rice yields of 4.5-5.0 t/ha as have been obtained by SEMRY in the past few
seasons.  It would include the following components:
(i)  Varietal testing of introduction from abroad and
other parts of Cameroon in the dry and wet season
for: cold tolerance in the juvenile stage; good
quality and good yield; semi-tall straw for easier
harvesting; non-photo periodicity; effect on growth
duration of lower temperatures in the dry season.
(ii)  Experiments on continuous planting (every three
weeks, year round) of the most popular variety for
the dry and wet season, to obtain information on
the best sowing time.
(iii) Multiplication of selected varieties, maintaining
a high quality of material delivered to farmers.
(iv)  Fertilizer (N, P, K and S) and chemical weed control
trials at the station and on farmers' fields.
(v) Study of various soil preparation methods on dry
and wet land, including zero-tillage.
(vi)  Study of agrometeorological data and various water
regimes and their influence on yields, to arrive
at the most economical use of irrigation water
in the dry season.



- 89 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3
(vii)  Establishment of guidelines for seedbed prep-
aration and water control on seedbeds, to speed
up production of seedlings for transplanting.
(viii)  Study of the possibility and cost/benefit ratios
of crop rotations such as rice-sorghum, rice-
cowpeas, rice-maize, and rice-vegetables (onion,
tomatoes).
5.        In the field of traditional agricultural and livestock production
applied research would be centered around:
(i) variety trials on both local and imported strains
and investigations into the possible improvement
of cultivation practices of the project's chief
subsistence crops (sorghum/millet);
(ii) investigations into possible livestock improvement
and pasture development techniques.
6.        Regular contacts would be established with institutes experiment-
ing on cereals under comparable climatic conditions, such as IITA in Ibadan
(Nigeria), WARDA in Monrovia (Liberia), and ICRISAT in Ouagadougou (Upper
Volta).



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Area. Yields and Production
Pro,jct Year                                         2                     3                     4                     5                     6                      7                     8                     9                    10
SEMRY Fiscal Year 1/                             1978/79                1979/80               1980/81              1981/82                1982/83               1983/84             1JS4/S                 1985/86                1986/87
Season                                      M                       Wet        Drv        wet        Drv        Wet        Dry        Wet        Dry        Wet         Drv        Wet        Drv        Wet        fry        Wet        D
caleodar Year                                                1979                   1980                  1981                  1982                  1983                  1984                   1985                  1986
IRRIGABLE AREA ha 2/
Maga West                            -              800      -            500      -          -         -           1,000
Pouss                                                                  1,000                       -
Guirvidig                            -           -          -          -          -          1,500                 -
Mnga East                            -           -          -           -          -          -         -             600      -          1600       -          -          -          -          _                      _          _
Annual Total                   -             800      -          1,500      -          1,500      -          1,600      -          1,600
CUMULATIVE TOTAL               -             800      -          2.300      -          3.800      -          5.400      -            000      -                -                -          -          - 
GULTIVATED AREA. ha 3/
800 ha                                           _             720        720        720        720        720        720        720        720        720      -            720         720
1,500 ha                             -           _          _          -          1,350      1,350      1,350      1,350       1,350      1,350      1,350        495      1,350        855
1,500 ha                             -           -          _          _          -          _          1,350      1,350      1,350       1,350      1,350      1,350      1,350        270
1,600 ha                             -                                                                              - -  -  -  -      1,440  1,440   1,440      1,440      1,440      1,440
1,600 ha                                              -                           -          -          -          -          -           -          1.440      1.440      1440       1.440
TOTAL                           _          -            720        720      2.070      2,070      3.420      3.420      4.860      4.860      6.300       4.725      6.300      4.725 6.300           4.725      6.30       4
PRODUCTION, t 4/
800 ha .                                         -          2,736      3,240      2,880      3,384      2,880      3,384       2,880      3,384      2,880      -          2,880      3,384                                              8
1,500 ha                             -           -          -          -          5,130      6,075      5,400      6,345      5,400       6,345      5,400      2,327      5,400      4,019
1,500 ha                             -           -          -          -          -          -          5,130      6,O75      5,400       6,345      5,400      6,345      5,400      1,269
1,600 ha                             -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -           5,472      6,480      5,760      6,768      5,760      6,768
1,600 ha                                                                     -          -               -                      - -5,472                         6,480      5.760      6,768
TOTAL                                      -          2.736  3,240            8 ,O1 C  9,459    13,410    15,804       19,152    225                      1,920    25,200    22,208    25,200    22,208    25.200    22,208
Retained by Farmers (15% of total)          -           -             410        486      1,202      1,419     2,012       2,371      2,873      3,383      3,737      3,288       3,780      3,331      3,780      3,331      3,780      3,331
Purchased Produatioa                        -           -           2,326      2,754      6,808      8,040    11,398    13,433       16,279    19,171    21,175       18,632    21,420    18,877    21,420    18,877    21,420    18,877
Seed Requireents of Nurseries  5/           -           -             104        104        171        171        243        243        315        236        315         236        315        236        315        236        315         236
Losses (5% cf purohased production)         -           -             116        138        340        402        570        672        814        959      1,059         932      1,071        944      1,071        944      1,071         944
Paddy to be Milled                          -           -           2,106      2,512      6,297      7,467    10,585    12,518    15,150    17,976    19,801    17,464    20,034    17,697    20,034    17,697    20,034    17,697
Rice Equivalent (69.5% 6/)                  -           -           1,464      1,746      4,376      5,190     7,357       8,700    10,529    12,493    13,762    12,137    13,924    12,299    13,924    12,299    13,924    12,299
Milling By-Products (6%)                    -            -            126        151        378        448        635        751        909      1,079       1,188      1,048      1,202      1,062      1,202      1,062       1,202      1,062
MILLED OUTPUT TO BE MAJKETED
(rounded)
Rica  6/                             _           _                      1,460      1,750     4,380      5,190       7,360      8,700     10,530    12,490    13,760    12,140    13,920    12,300    13.920    12,300    13,920
By-Products                          -           -           _            130        150        380        450        630        750        910      1,080       1,190      1,050      1,200      1,060      1,200      1,060       1,200
1/    July 1 to June 30.
2/     End of period.
3/     Assumed te be 90% of irrigable area.  Every four years polders are Ieft faDlow  for major maintenance work.
Thus, 25% of total area at 11 development is not available for cultivation in the dry season.
_/     Yields are assumed to rise froc 3.8 t/ha to 4.0 t/ha if  the wet season, and from  4.5 t/ha to 4.7 t/ha
in the dry season.
5/     It per ha cf nnrsery; I ha cf nursery per 20 ha of cultivated area,  Requirerents are for the same seas00
of the following year (i.e., 1980 wet sesasn  requirements are deducted from the 1979 wet season production).
6/     Standard and braken.



Rice Market Pro lections, 1977 - 1990
(in tons)
Calendar                      Total  SEMRY as    Logone Plaine des Mbo,  Other   Domestic          Domestic              A                    B                   C
Year   SEMRY T  SEIIRY II   SEMRY % of Total  et Chari Plaine de Ndop  (Tradit.) Production 1/ Consumption 2/ Exports 3/ Imports Exports 3/ Imports Exports 3/ Imports
1976    14,680       -     14,680    64.7         _          1,500        6,500    22,680         28,600         8,800 4/  14,720    8,800 4/  14,720    8,800 4/  14,720
1977    17,070       -     17,070     64.5        _          2,420        6,960    26,450         30,720        12,190      16,460   10,350     14,620    7,790     12,060
1978    20,190       -     20,190    62.8          -         4,550        7,420    32,160         32,990        15,570      16,400   12,540     13,370    9,510     10,340
1979    21,300       -     21,300    60.9         200        5,600        7,880    34,980         35,430        16,400     16,850   13,180      13,630    9,950     10,400
1980    22,280     3,890    26,170    62.6        390        6,870        8,350    41,780         38,050        20,970     17,240   16,990      13,260   13,000      9,270
1981    22.620   11,350    33,970    64.5         650        9,260        8,810    52,690         40,870        28,320     16,500   23,130      11,310   17,930      6,110
1982    22,620    18,990   41,610    65 0         970       12,120        9,270    63,970         44,550        35,550      16,130   29,160      9,740   22,780      3,360
1983    22,620    27,110   49,730     65.4       1,950      14,590        9,730    76,000         48,560        43,900     16,460   36,150       8,710   28,400        960
1984    22,620    30,440    53,060    65.5       1,950      15,760       10,190    80,960         52,930        46,470      18,440   38,220     10,190   29,970      1,940
1985    22,620    30,820    53,440    64.4      1,950       16,930       10,650    82,970         57,690        45,800      20,520   37,490     12,210   29,180      3,900
1986    22,620    30,820    53,440    63 2       1,950      18,100       11,110     84,600        62,880        44,770      23,050   36,460     14,740   28,150      6,430
1987    22,620    30,820    53,440    62.0       1,950      19,270       11,580    86,240         68,540        43,480      25,780   35,170     17,470   26,860       9,160
1988    22,620    30,820    53,440    60.8      1,950       20,440       12,040    87,870         74,710        42,110      28,950   33,800     20,640   25,490      12,330
1989    22,620    30,820    53,440    60.5       1,950      20,440       12,500    88,330         81,440        40,520      33,630   32,210     25,320   23,900      17,010
1990    22,620    30,820    53,440    60.2       1,950      20,440       12,960    88,790         88,770        38,770      38,750   30,460     30,440   22,150      22,130
1/ Rice equivalent of paddy production from Table la of this annex.
2/ Assumed growth rates are 7.4% p.a. for 1977-1981 and 9% p.a. thereafter, based on 1971-1975 relationship between rice demand and income growth.
3/ SEMRY and Logone et Chari.
4/ Unofficial estimate.
A: All production of northern Cameroon not consumed there is exported.
B   15% of production of northern Cameroon is consumed in southern Cameroon, the balance not consumed in the north is exported.
C:  30% of production of northern Cameroon is consumed in southern Cameroon, the balance not consumed in the north is exported.
O-X



- 92 -                                                               ANNEX 16
Table la
CAMEROON_
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SonteProduction of Paddy 8ed Rien
(in MT)
Plaine                               Total                                                       Portion
SEMRY     Calendar               SEMRY I    SEMRY ID   des Mbo      Plaine      Logore        Projeet     Traditional    Total Paddy         Ri-e        Retained by      Portion
FY 1/       Year      Season                           (SODERIM)    de Ndop    et Chari    Prodeetion    Produetien       Production      Eqeivalent-   Fanmera 3/      te be Sold
1973/74                  Wet        5,200       -           -           270          -          5,470           9,600        15,070
Dry         970       -            230        260          -          1,460            -             1,460          9,800          2,220           7,580
1974
1974/75                  Wet        8,790       -            420      1,330          -         10,540          10,000        20,540             950            110             840
NDy       3,520       -            230        450          -          4,200            -            4,200          13,350          2,680          10,670
1971
Wet      17,340        -           450       1,260         _         19,050          10,000         29,050           2,730           290           2,440
1975/76
Dry       5,250       -            230        360          -          5,840            -             5,840         18,880          3,180          15,700
1976
1976/77                  Wet       20,270       _          1,220      2,160          -         23,650          10,710        34,360           3,800            640           3,160
Dry       6,000        -          -           340          -          6.340            -             6,340         22,330          6,400          15,930
1977
1977/78                  Wet       22,600       -          3,400      3,200          -         29,200          11,420         40,620          4,120            620           3,500
Nry       8,460       -           -           400          _          8,860            -             8,860         26,400          5,30D          21,100
1978
1978/79                  Wet       22,200       -          3,700      4,320           300      30,520          12,130        42,650           5,760            850           4,880
Dry      10,570       -           -           600          -         11,170            -            11,170         27,720          5,590          22,130
1979
Wet      21,590       2,740      3,700      6,080           600      34,710          12,840         47,550           7,260         1,110           6,150
1979/80
Nry      12,690      3,240        -           800          -         16,730            -            16,730         30,910          6,160          24,750
1980
1980/81                  Wet       20,700      8,010      5,650       7,600         1,003      42,960          13,550        56,510          10,870          1,660           9,210
Dry      14,100      9,460        -         1,000          -         24,560            -            24,560         36,733          7,110          29,620
1981
1981/82                  W.et      20,700     13,410       7,450     10,000         1,500      53,060          14,260        67,320          15,960          2,430          13,530
Dry      14,100     15,800        -         1,200          -         31,100            -            31,100         43,760          8,330          35,430
1982
1982/83                  Wet       20,700     19,150       9,250     12,000         3,000      64,100          14,970         79,070         20,210          3,070          17,140
Dry      14,100     22,550        -         1,200          -         37,850            -            37,850         51,400          9,660          41,740
1983
1983/84                  Uet       20,700     24,910      11,050     12,000         3,000      71,660          15,680         87,340         24,600          3,730          20,860
Nry      14,100     21,920        -         1,200          -         37,220            -            37,220         56,770         10,540          46,230
1984
1984/85                  Uet       20,700     25,200      12,850     12,000         3,000      73,750          16,390         93,140         24,190          3,670          20,520
Dry      14,100     22,210        -         1,200          -          37,510           -            37,510          58,590        10,880          47.710
1982
1985/86,                 Wet       20,700     25,200      14,650     12,000         3,000      75,550          17,100         92,650         24,380          3,700          20,680
Dry      14,100      22,210       -          1,200         -          37.510           -            37,510          60,220        11,190          49,030
1986
1956/87                  Wet       20,700     25,200      16,450     12,000         3,000      77,350          17,810         95,160         24,380          3,700          20,680
1987       eDry      14,100      22,210       -          1,200         -          37,510           -            37,510          61,860        11,500          50,360
1987/88                  Wet       20,700     25,200      18,250     12,003         3,000      79,150          18,520         97,670         24,380          3,700          20,680
1988        Dry      14,100      22,210       -          1,200         -          37,510           -            37,510          63,490        11,820          51,670
1988/89                  Wet       20,700     25,200      18,250     12,000         3,000      79,150          19,230         98,380         24,380          3,700          20,680
1989        Dry      14,100      22,210       -          1,200         -          37,510           -            37,510          63,950        11,960          31,990
1989/90                  Wet       20,700     25,200      18,250     12,000         3,000      79,150          19,940         99,090         24,380          3,700          20,680
1990        Dry      14,100      22,210       -          1,200         -          37,510            -           37,510          64,410         12,090         52,320
Wet      20,700      25,200     18,250      12,000        3,000       79,150         20,650         99,800          24,380          3,700         20,680
1/ July I te Jene 30.
2/ At 0.65. Produetion ia milled a-d marketed i  th.e neason nfter the ene i whih it is harvested.
3/  157. fer SEM8Y I (pro1jettions), SEMRY II a-d Plaine den Mb; 203 for Plaine de Ndop and Logone et Chai; 30% for traditional predeetien.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Cameroon Rice Market Estimates. 1970 - 1976
Retail Price
Retail Price      Yaounde as
Calendar   Domestic                       Domestic                      Per Capita    Import Price   Retail Price         Yaounde of        % of Other
Year    Production 1/  Imports 2/  Consumption 3/ Population 4/  Consumption    CIF Douala              Yaounde       Other 5/ Foods   Food Prices
(t)           (t)            (t)           (thds)           (kg)          (CFA/kg)         (CFA/kg)         (CFA/kg)
1970      12,080         7,760           19,840          6,611            3.0              50.0            79                39              203
1971       9,260        31,880          41,140           6,751            6.1              27.3            58                45              129
1972      10,310        28,010           38,320          6,894            5.6              26.3            65                55              118
1973       8,240        23,720           31,960          7,041            4.5              53.2            92                56              164
1974      10,750        17,280 6/        22,030 6/       7,191            3.1             122.7           142                60              237
1975      16,080         1,710           23,790 /       7,344            3.2             114.8           143                74              193
1976      22,680         5,920 7/        28,600 7/       7,500 8/         3.8              71.9           118                80              147
1/  Rice equivalent of paddy production at 0.65 allocated to period in which it is milled and sold.
2/  Net imports from official trade statistics.
3/  No stock data are available.
4/  Estimates based on 1976 census total.
5/  Average price of cereals and cereal-based products, roots and tubers.
6/  About 6,000 tons imported at CFAF 120,000 per ton during August-October 1974 were not sold and consumed until early 1975.
7/  Preliminary.
8/  Additional census data will not be available before end-1977 or early 1978.
I-.t,
tX x-
o'H



- 94                                 ANNEX 16
-                         ~~~~~~~~Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Economic Ex-Mill Price of Rice
(Constant 1977 Terms )
1977     1980-85
A  Thai 25-35% brokon, FOB Bangkok, US$/t 1/                    198          270
CFAF equivalent (at CFAF 245 per US$, rounded)            48,500      66,100
B  Ocean freight, insurance, adjustment factor 2/            16,840       16,840
C  CIF price Douala                                          65,340       82,940
D  Handling, port and sanitary charges 3/                     3,500        3,500
E  Iinporter?s margin 4/                                      6,590        6,590
F  Price to wholesaler Douala                                75,430       93,030
G  Transportation to Yaounde                                  5,000        5,000
H  Price to wholesaler Yaounde                               80,430       98,030
I  Less:  Transportation Maga-Yaounde                        20,00       20,000
J  Economic ex-mill price for sales to southern Cameroon   60,430         78,030
H  Price to wholesaler Yaounde                               80,430       98,030
K  Plus:  Transportation Yaounde-Garoua/Maroua               17,000       17,000
L  Less:  Transportation Mega-Garoua ,Maroua                  3,000        3,000
M  Economic ex-iill price for sales in northern Cameroon   94,430      112,030
N  CIF price Lagos                                           70,150 5/   82,940
0  Handling, port charges 6/                                  5,800        5,800
P  Importer's margin                                          6,800       6,800
Q  Transportation Lagos-Maiduguri                            22,000      22,000
R  Price to wholesaler Iaduguri                            104,750     117,540
S  Less:  Transportation Maga-Maiduguri                       8,000       8,000
T  Economic ex-iiill price for sales to northern Nigeria    96,750      109,540
1/  IBRD estimatesD Oc>ober 1977.
2/ For difference between actual and reference quality.
3/ Port and sanitary charges, CFAF 490; unloading, wharfage, transportation,
CFAF 3,0l0 o
4/ "Frais gnraux autoriss".,
5/  Higher than CIF Douala because of higher insurance rates.
6/  Higher in Lagos than in Douala.



- 95 -                                ANNEX 16
CAMEROON                               Table 3a
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Rice Price Structure
(Current Terms)
1977 ./    1980        1985
A  FOB price Asia, US$ per ton                              226.7        335 2/      470 2/
B  Ocean freight and insurance, US$ per ton                 40.0          50 3/       70
C  CIF price Douala, US$ per ton                           266.7          w          7
CFAF equivalent (at 245 per US$)                       65,340      94,325    132,300
D  Import duties and taxes (20.5% of C)                   13,395      19,335      27,120
E  Phytosanitary charge                                        50         50          50
F  Health inspection charge (0.3% of C)                       195        285         395
G  Port charge                                                245        245         245
H  Municipal tax                                             125         125         125
I  Treasury tax (0.1% of D to H)                               15         20          30
J  Unloading, wharfage, transportation                     3,010       3,740 3/   5,245 3/
K  Price at warehouse Douala                              d2,375 4/ 115,125    T7751-0
L  Importer's margin (8% of K)                             6,590       9,450      13,240
M  Price to wholesaler                                    88,965    127,575    178,750
N  Wholesale margin (7% of M)                              6,230       8,930      12,510
O  Wholesale price Douala                                 95,195    136,505    191,260
P  Retail margin (9% of 0)                                 8,570      12,285      17,215
Q  Retail price Douala                                   103,765    148,790    208,475
R  Transportation, handling                                5,000       6,21      5 3/    _ /
S  Retail price Yaounde                                  108,765    155,005    217,190
T  SEMRY ex-mill price                                    86,070 5/ 106,985 3/ 150,020 2/
U  Sales tax (9.65% of T)                                  8,305      10,325      14,h75
V  SEM]RY ex-mill price including sales tax               94,375    117,310    164,h95
W  Trade margins (16.63% of V 6/)                         15,695      19,510      27,355
X  Transportation, handling                               20,0        2h,860 3   34,860 3
Y  SEMRY retail price Yaounde                            130,070    161,680    226,710
Z  Line Y as % of line S                                   119.6       104.3      lo40h
1/  Direction des prix, Yaounde.
2/ IBRD (October 1977) estimates, based on government to government contracts for
35% brokens.
3/  Using IBRD (October 1977) index of international inflation.
Z/  Without "jumelage".
5/  Average of first semester (CFAF 83,120) and estimated second semester
(CFAF 89,025).
6/  Wholesale (7%) and retail (9%).



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Economic Ex-Mill Prices for Different
Marketing Shares 1/
(CFAF/t)
A                                     B                                           C
Exports                                    Exports                                      Exports
Northern       to     Average   Northern    Southern    to        Average   Northern    Southern    to        Average
Year   Cameroon 2/ Nigeria   Price    Cameroon 2/ Cameroon  Nigeria   Price    Cameroon 2/ Cameroon  Nigeria   Price
1980      6.0%       78.9%   109,720       6.0%        15.0%    63.9%   104,150        6.0%        30.0%    48.9%    98,580
1981      3.1%       81.8%   109,630       3.1%        15.0%    66.8%   104,060        3.1%        30.0%    51.8%    98,500
1982      1.4%       83.5%   109,580       1.4%        15.0%    68.5%   104,010        1.4%        30.0%    53.5%    98,450
1983       -         84.9%   109,540        -          15.0%    69.9%   103,970         -          30.0%    54.9%    98,410
1984      0.3%       84.5%   109,550       0.3%        15.0%    69.5%   103,980        0.3%        30.0%    54.5%    98,400
1985      2.1%       82.7%   109,600       2.1%        15.0%    67.7%   104,030        2.1%        30.0%    52.7%    98,450
1986      4.0%       80.8%   109,660       4.0%        15.0%    65.8%   104,080        4.0%        30.0%    50.8%    98,510
1987      6.3%       78.5%   109,720       6.3%        15.0%    63.5%   104,150        6.3%        30.0%    48.5%    98,580
1988      8.8%       76.0%   109,800       8.8%        15.0%    61.0%   104,220        8.8%        30.0%    46.0%    98,650
1989     11.7%       73.2%   109,880      11.7%        15.0%    58.2%   104,320       11.7%        30.0%    43.2%    98,750
1990     14.7%       70.1%   109,970      14.7%        15.0%    55.1%   104,400       14.7%        30.0%    40.1%    98,820
Avertag e
1980-90     5.5%       79.3%   109,700       5.5%        15.0%    64.3%   104,130         5.5%        30.0%    49.3%    98,550
1/  Of SEMRY production.                                                                                                   z M
2/  Excluding the part of production kept by farmers which is valued at the economic farm gate price.



97AN-NEX 17
Table 1
CAMFROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Farm Labor Requirements
Man-Days
per ha
1. Rice
Field preparation and transplanting                                   4o
Weeding and fertilizer application                                    27
Water control and bund maintenance                                    15
Harvesting                                                            25
Threshing                                                             30
Short-distance transportation, miscellaneous                          10
1h7
2. Mouskouari 1/
Seedbed preparation                                                    5
Field preparation                                                     10
Transplanting                                                         15
Weeding                                                               30
Harvesting                                                            15
75
3. Sorghum and Other 2/
Land clearing                                                         25
Field preparation and sowing                                          15
First weeding                                                         30
Second weeding                                                        15
Third weeding                                                         10
Maintenance                                                            5
Harvesting                                                            15
115
1/ Dry-season sorghum variety.
2/ Mostly vegetables and tobacco.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Farm Labor Requirements
(Man-Days)
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr. May   June  July  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   Total
Rice
Field preparation, transplanting         13    14                         18    18                                          63
Weeding, fertilizer application                 il            7                  14            10                           42
Water control, bund maintenance                  4     4      2                   5      5      4                           24
Harvesting                                                           5    12                           7    16              40
Threshing                                                                   7    13                         10    17        47
Short distance transportation,
miscellaneous                          ___                                2     5                          3      6       16
Total dry season 1/                      13    29      4      9      5    21    18              -      -      -     -       99
Total wet season                          -      -         -         -    18    37       5    14       7    29    23       133
Total rice                               13    29      4      9      5    39    55       5    14       7    29    23       232
Mouskouari
Seedbed preparation                                                                             4                            4       1
Field preparation                                                                               7                            7       "
Transplanting                                                                                         11                    1l
Weeding                                                                                                       9    14       23
Harvesting                               11                                                                                 il
Total mouskouari 3/                      il      _     _      _      _                         1      1 i9    14            56
Sorghum, Other Crops
Land clearing                                                        8                                                       8
Field preparation, sowing                                            2      3                                                 5
Weeding                                                                    10      8                                         18
Maintenance                                                                              2                                    2
Harvesting                                                                                             5                      5
Total sorghum, other 4/                   -      -     -      -    10    13        8     2      -      5      -      -       38
Total labor requirements                 24    29      4      9    15    52    63        7    25    23    38    37         326
Total labor availability 5/              68    68    68    68    68    68    68    68    68    68    68    68              816
1/  Cultivated area is 75% of that in the wet season.    2/  1 ha irrigated area, of which 90% is actually culti-
vated, allowing for nurseries and incomplete transplanting.    3/  0.75 ha cultivated.   4/  26.8 ares sorghum,                      z
5.4 ares other crops.   5/  Average extended family (sare) of 5.5 persons including 3.1 workers.                                   X x
-Ij



- 99 -
ANNEX 17
Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Crop Production Costs 1/
Unit      Useful    Annual
Number     Cost        Life       Cost
(CFAF)    (Years)    (CFAF)
A. Without the Project
Hoes (daba)                                 3         250         2         375
Sickles                                     3         200         2          300
Machetes                                    3         400         3         400
Axe                                         1         500         4          125
Total Hand Tools                                                          1,200
SEMRY Charges 2/ - Plowing (CFAF 8,000 per ha)                            5,200
- Seed (CFAF 3,000 per ha)                              1,950
Total SEMRY Charges                                                       7,150
Total Cost                                                           8,350
B. With the Project
Hand Tools                                                                1,200
Cart 3/                                    1/7    80,000          6       3,770
Pedal Thresher 3/                          1/5    35,000          5        9____
Subtotal                                                                  4,970
SEMRY Charges (CFAF 67,030 per ha h/)
- Wet Season                                                             6o,3,30
- Dry Season                                                            ____
Subtotal                                                                105,570
Total Cost                                                        110,540
1/ Average extended family (sare) of 5.5 persons including 3.1 workers.
2/ Could only partly be recovered in the past because farmers were too
poor to pay the full amount.
3/ Purchased under the FONADER equipment credit program administered
by SEMRY.
V/ Excluding charges connected with equipment purchases under the FONADER
credit program.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Farm Family Budgets 1/
Cropped                                       Gross   Production    Net
Area     Yield    Production    Price        Income      Cost 2/   Income
(ha)     (t/ha)       (kg)      (CFAF/kg)   (CFAF)      (CFAF)      (CFAF)
A.  Without the Project
Paddy                                       0.65       1.0         650         37.5      24,375    7,695 3/   16,680 3/
Sorghum                                     0.5        0.9         450         46        20,700       412       20,288
Mouskouari 4/                               0.3        0.7         210         46         9,660       161        9,499
Other crops 5/                              0.1        1.0         100         75         7,500        82        7,418
Total crops                                 1.55                                         62,235    8,350        53,885
Net income per worker                                                                                           17,380
Net income per capita                                                                                            9,800
Net income per man-day (total: 168)                                                                                320
B.  With the Project                                                                                                           C
Paddy - wet season                          0.9        4.0       3,600         37.5    135,000   62,610         72,390
- dry season                          0.675     4.7       3,173         37.5    118,970   46,960         72,010
Mouskouari 4/                               0.75       0.7         525         46        24,150       580       23,570
Sorghum                                     0.27       0.9         243         46        11,180       324       lo,856
Other crops 5/                              0.055      1.0          55         75         42125        66        4,059
Total crops                                 2.65                                        293,425  110,540       182,885
Net income per worker                                                                                           58,995
Net income per capita                                                                                           33,250
Net income per man-day (total: 326; see Table 2)                                                                   560
1/  At full development; constant 1977 prices.  Average extended family (sare) of 5.5 persons including 3.1
workers.
2/  See Table 3. Labor requirements have been used in distributing costs among crops.
3/  The cost of SEMRY services could only partly be recovered in the past because farmers were too poor to pay
the full amount.
4/  Transplanted dry season sorghum variety.
5/  Mostly vegetables and tobaccoa
4-J 



- 101 -
ANNEX 17
Table 5
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SEMRY Farmers' Charges
CFAF/ha 1/
Plowing                                                  8,590
Nurseries                                                8,690
Fertilizer                                              20,210
Extension Service                                        6,210
Irrigation Water, Network Maintenance                   8,500
Network Amortization                                     8,970
Subtotal                                          61,170
Credit Charges 2/                                        5,860
Total SEMRY                                       67,030
Equipment Purchases 3/                                   3,770
Total Charges                                     70,800
1/ At full development, constant 1977 prices, including
physical contingencies.
2/ Interest on credit for paddy purchases and O&M of the
irrigation system; assumed to be obtained on FONADER
terms.
3/ Carts and pedal threshers purchased under the FONADER
equipment credit program administered by SEMRY.



- 102 -                             ANNEX 18
D 102 -                   ~~~Table i
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Indices 1/
Total
Project 2/
1.  Gross value of farm production at farm gate ex sales taxes 3/         11,3h3
2.  Less production costs h/                                               2 838
3. Net cash income
h. Less - imputed value of family labor 5/                                 2,481
5.       - imputed value of management services and allowance
for risk/uncertainty 6/                                        1,701
6.         imputed return on own capital 7/                                   17
7e Rent/surplus                                                            4, 306
8. Rent as a percentage of net cash income (7 : 3)                            51
9.  SEMRY charges 8/                                                       2,283
10.  SEMRY rice sales less paddy purchases 9/                               5,264
11.  Rice sales tax revenue                                                 1.,465
12. Rent recovery index (9 : 7)                                                53
13.  Public sector outlays (capital + O&M)                                 15,284
1h.  Cost recovery index ( (9+1011) * 13)                                     59
15.  Farmers' income per capita at full development (from 198h/85)
CFAF                                                                33,250
- us$                                                                    135
16.  Estimated critical consumption level 10/ (same year)
- CFAF                                                                39,200
US$                                                                     160
17.  Estimated national per capita income (same year)
CFAF                                                               98,000
US$                                                                     400
1/  Items 1 through 1h are incremental, discounted values in constant end-1977
CFAF million, or ratios derived from them (discount rate: 10%; project
life: 35 years).
2/  There is only one farm type, the family farm with 1 ha double cropped
paddy land and about 1 ha rainfed land.
3/  From Annex 17, Table h.
I/  Custom plowing, fertilizer, seedlings, farm equipment (FONADER), from
Annex 17, Tables 3, 5.
5/ About 9 hours per day at the minimum wage of CFAF 36.3 per hour.
6/  15% of gross value of farm production.
7/  10% of the value of equipment bought under the FONADER credit program
(see Annex 17, Table 3).
8/  Extension service, water charges, network maintenance and amortization.
7/  SEMRY collects and mills the paddy and sells it ex-mill to private traders.
10/  The level at which the social value of a unit of extra consumption equals
the social value of a unit of extra public revenue.



CAX4EEOON
SECOPD SEMR RICE PROJECT
SIRI Il Cash n10,
(CFAP million 1/)
Proect Year                                 1            2           3           4            5           6           7            8           9           10          il          12           13          14          15
Fiscal Ybar                              1977/78     1978/79      1979/80     1980/81     1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      1984/85     1985/86     1966/87      1987/88     1988/89     1989/90      1990/91     1991/92
Civil Morts
Main Ci11 Works                      1,344.7     1,651.6         -           -             -          -                                    -            -           -           -            -
Irrigation and Drainage System           37.3       157.2        246.4       273.7        311.4       312.9
Rine Mill and Storage                    -           13.0        240.7        23.0       138.6        151.4
Other Buildings and Civil Works         398 7       431.4         65.9        64.9         1.4         20.5        -            _           _            _           _           -            _           _           _
Subtotal                          1,780.7    `2,253.2        553.0       361.6       469.4                     ---.-
Eouiment
For.e Acconnt                           690.0       517.5         -           -
Laud Preparation                         -           17.9         54.8        69.1         88 7        90 7        23 6         67.1        79.1        94.9         90.7        23.6        67.1         79.1        94.9
Rice Mil                                 -           -           435.9         1.7        549.6         1.9        -            -           -            -           -           -            -           -           -
Vehieles                                 36.6         30.7        25.9        37 9         66 3        31.6        22 4         26.7        56.5         53.8        34.6        38.3         64.9        31.8        45 3
Other Equipenet na Furnshings 2         194.7       167.6          9.3         4            3 0         3.3        48.o       180.0          2.1          78 228.4               41.8         57.3       189.3         4.4
921 3                                            73      3.7 525:9           123                                       . 7 127  5  353.7  13.7      189.3       300.2   144.
ODerat1on asti Maltananene
Public Domain (Dikes and Accese
Rond)                                  -                        13.9        14.9         22.8        24.3        24.3         24.3        24.3        24.3         24.3        24.3         24.3        24.3        24.3
Other Main Civil Worts                   -            _            8.1         8.7         13.2        14.2        14.2         14.2        14.2         14.2        14.2        14.2         14.2        14.2        14.2
Irrigation Syntes 3/                     -            6.6         73.5       199.4        343.7       515.3       591 0        591.0       591.0        591.0       591.0       591.0        591.0       591.0       591.0
Buildings and Other Civil Works          -            -           -            2.4          6.9        12 6        15.6         17.0        18.1         18.4        i8.6        18.6         18.6        i8.6        18.6
Paddy Collection and Milling 3/          -           -            12.1        54.1        118 6       194.5       265.5       263.6        265.2        265.2       265.2       265.2        265.2       265.2       265.2
Vehicles 4/                              10.0        29.7         42.0        60.5         74.7        89.7        91.1         91.1        91.1         88.3        88.3        88.3         88.3        88.3        88 3
Oth0 r Equipa.ot and Maehlnery           -            7.9         23.7        25.7         28.0        29.8        29.8         29.7        29.7         29.7        29.7        29.7         29.7        29.7        29.7
Support Services for SOGRESH             ssf6       J7o           44 4        47_55_ '                                       _           _       4
Oubtotal                             65.6       119.2       217.7        413.2    ~     BT        934 8    1,031.5      1,030.9      1, 033      1,03=1.      1,031.3     1,031.3     1,031.3
Persoonel
SEXRY Technical Assistance               41.5        97.2        126.8       169.6        155.4        88.4        -            -           -            -           -                        -           -            -
SEMRY local Personnel                    24.7        75.3        128.2       180.4        216.3       280.9       275 6       269.2        266.7        264.1       264.i       264.i        264.1       264.1       264.1
SOGSRAH Engineering Consultants         2 6         284.8        182.3       174.6        179.7                                             -                  -                              -           -            -
296.8       457.      3                524.6 551.4                        275 559     269.2 266.7                  T 264.l  2   6      4        .1                           264.1i
Health Personnel                         14.8        18.3         23.0        28.7         34.7        35.2        35.2         35.2        35.2         22.4        22.4         22.4        22.4        22.4         22.4
Special Training                         1.          16.3         17.6        19.0         -                                                 .                 -                  -
Subtotal                            324.1       491.9  479               572.3        586.1       595.0       310.8        304.4       301.9        286.5       28.35        286.5                      -5        28686
Short-Tesm Studies                       18.2        47.7         49.5        51.2         53.0        54.8                     -           -            -           -            -                       -            -
PFddy Paurchses 2/                       -            -          205.7       648.9      1,172.0     1,808.0     2,030.2      2,055.1     2,055.1      2,055.1     2,055.1      2,055.1     2,055.1     2,055.1      2,055.1
Ca.paign Credit Charges Q                -            o.4         10.0        29.5         52.2        79.6        90.2         90.8        90.8         90.8        90.8         90.8        90.8        90.8         90.8
TOTAL OUTYfLW (Net of Debt Service)   3,109.9     3,646.1      2,039.7     2,200.3      3,699.0     4,o84.5     3,556.7      3,755.1     3,619.1      3,620.1     3,817.4      3,567.4     3,653.o     3,763.9      3,608.3
j Cnrrent prices through P6, eonstat prcesa thereetter.
/ Exclsding fertiliaer,whieh ta under O & M (irrigation systen).
N/ Not included in project cost tables as covered by SlfiMT revenue (farmers' charges and rice sales)
1/ Inclsdiog trichs, boats and tirplrane   o   M et trucka excluded from  project cost tables as covered by SEYRY revenue (see note j).
5/ Purebase price assuetd to rise at the same rate as personnel costs, vith a one-year lag.                                                                                                                              en
/ Interest on credit for paddy purchanes and O & M of the irrigatimo  ystem; assumed to be  hbtained at 10% p a  (FONADER rate).                                                                                         s -



CAjagSOOX
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SEMRY II Cash Flmw
(CFAF million 1/)
Pro3ect Year                                 1           2            3            4           5           6            7            8           9           10         1i            12          13           14          15
Fiscal Year                               1977/78     1978/79      1979/80      1980/81     1981/82     1982/83      1983/84     1984/85      1985/86      1986/87     1987/88      1988/89     1989/90      1990/91     1991/92
IRFLOW
Rice Sales 2/                             -            -          140.8        632.8     1,387.3     2,275.0      3,106.2      3,083.3     3,102.4      3,102.4     3,102.4      3,102.4     3,102.4      3,102.b     3,102.4
By-Produect Sales                         -            -            0.9          3.7         7 5         11.7        15.9         15.7        15.8         15.8         15.8        15.8         15.8        15.8        15.8
Farnera' Charges Y/ 2/                    -            -           50.7        206 2       431.0        695.1     1,030.9      1,070.3     1,070.3      1,070.2     1,070.2      1,070.2     1,070.2      1,070.2     1,070.2
Grant for 0 & M of Public Domain  /       -            -           _            _           _            _           24.3         24.3        24.3         24.3         24.3        24.3        24.3         24.3        24.3
Health Personnel Salaries 6               -            -           -            -            -           -           35.2         35.2         35.2        22.4         22.4        22.4         22.4        22.4         22.4
Project Financing 7/                   3,108 9      3,637.0     1,749.8      1,286.3     2,021.7     1,490.0         -            -           -            -            -           -            -           -
- Bank/IDA        -                   (1,921.6)   (2,157.7)   ( 852.7)   (  467.8)   ( 932.0) * ( 567.7)
- CCCE                                ( 540.9)   ( 607.4)   ( 240.0)   ( 131.7)   ( 262.3)   ( 159.8)
- FAC                                 (  95.5)   ( 163.8)   ( 169-5)   ( 210.4)   ( 197.5)   ( 133.0)
Cameroon                            ( 550.9)   ( 708.1)         4 487.6)   ( 476.4)   ( 629.9)   ( 629.5)
TOTAL IXFLOW                           3,108.9      3,637.0     1,942.2      2,129.0     3,847.5      4,471.8     4,212.5      4,228.8     4,248.o      4,235.1      4,235.1     4,235.1      4,235.1     4,235.1     4,235.1
Opersting Surplus or (Deficit)            (1.0)        (9.1)      (97.5)       (71 3)      148.5        387.3       655.8        473.7       628.9        615.0        417 7       667.7        582.1       471.2       626.8
Debt Service on ProJect Financing /      -            _            _           _           _            _          509.9        498.9       486.7        474.9        463.3       451.7       440.1        428.3       416.7
- Bank/IDA 2/                             _           _            _                                                480.3        469.3       458.3        447.2        436.2       425.2        414.2       403.1        392.1
- CCCE  /                                 -            -           -            -           -            -           29.6        2            28.4         27.7         27.1        26.5         25.9        25.2         24.6
Set Opersting Surplus or (Deficit)         (1.0)       (9.1)       (97.5)      (71.3)      148.5        387.3       145.9        (24.6)      142.2        140.1        (45.6)      216.0        142.0        42.9        210.1
Cumulative Net Operating
Surplus or (Deficit)                    (1.0)       (10.1)     (107 6)      (178.9)      (30.4)       356.9       502.8        478.2       620.4        760.5        714.9       930.9      1,072.9     1,115.8     1,325.9
C/ Current prices through PY6, constant prices thereafter.
2/ Ex-eill price assoued to rise vith international inflation, lagged one year.
3/ For plowing, nurseries, fertilizer, extension, irrigation meater and network maintenance, netoork amortization, campaign credit; also includes SEMRY commission for adroinistering FOEADER equipsient credit.  To be
paid at the end of each season.
2/ Assumed to rise ia step with the costs covered.
5/ The Goveranent grant is included ,Ms project financing through Ff6
t/ At the charge of Government.  Included in project financing through PY6.
7/ Excluding financing for SEMhY T and FOXADER equipnent credit program totalling CFAF 310 million in PYl-6.
8/ On part on-lent to SEMRY   2/3 of total Bank/IDA and CFAF 333 million of CCCE contribution.                                                                                                                                ' p
Y/ 6.75% p.a., 35 including 6 grace yeara.
p/5.5% p.a. (estimate), 35 including 6 grace years.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Value of SEMRY II Output 1/
Semry                Rice         Ex-Mill                         Ex-Mill    Value of
FY       Season      Output 2/   Price 3/    By-products 4/   Price           Rice Output      By-products       FY Total
(t)        (CFA/t)          (t)            (CFA/t)    (------------CFA Million---------------)
1979/80     Wet        -            -               -                                                              131.2
Dry      1,464       89,025            126            7,000           130.3            0.9
1980/81     Wet       1,746         "               151              "            155.4             1.1
Dry      4,376         "               378                            389.6            2.6            548.7
1981/82     Wet       5,190         "               448              "            462.0             3.1
Dry      7,357          "              635              "             655.0            4.4          1,125.5
1982/83     Wet       8,700         "               751              "            774.5             5.3
Dry     10,529          "              909                            937.3            6.4          1,723.5
1983/84     Wet      12,493         "            1,079               "          1,112.2             7.6          2
Dry     13,762          "            1,188              "          1,225.2             8.3          2,353.3
1984/85     Wet      12,137         "            1,048                          1,080.5             7.3
Dry     13,924          "            1,202                         1,239.6             8.4          2,335.8
1985/86     Wet      12,299         "            1,062               "          1,094.9             7.4
Dry     13,924          "            1,202              "          1,239.6             8.4          2,350.3
1986/87     Wet      12,299         "            1,062               "          1,094.9             7.4
and after   Dry      13,924         "            1,202               "          1,239.6             8.4          2,350.3
1/ At constant 1977/78 prices.
2/  Paddy production of preceeding season, milled and marketed in season shown (milling ratio: 0.65).
3/ Weighted average of all qualities sold. See Table 2b.
4/ 6% of paddy to be milled.
m Co



- 106 -                                ANNEX 18
Table 2b
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SEMRY Ex-Mill Prices 1/
To be Applied from November 1977
Paddy Purchase Price:  CFAF 37,500 per t
Riz de luxe                  0.2% 2/    at    CFAF 167,700
Riz marchand                63.8% 2/    at    CFAF 100,000
Riz complet                  2.5% 2/    at    CFAF  65,000
Brizures extra              29.8% 2/    at    CFAF  70,000
Brizures ordinaires          3.7% 2/    at    CFAF  65,000
Total                      100.0%        at    CFAF  89,o25
1/ Excluding sales tax of 9.65%.
2/ Average shares of milled output of FY 1975/76 and 1976/77
(through May 28, 1977).



-                  h- -   a -----
t~~~~~        ~~~ X.l              . .I                  
o -                                                 -           oN -     -     -    
Da                                             9= o                0        (0ANO 1-V iih'10  h          _eH
*    00             O             oO1
U -      H           ::::::::: -:-::-::-::-:::: :9                            - z     .           . . . .
P.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..   . .                                         : .   3 . . 3 .  .              |
<~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~ .e                                  . .   ..  .          .;
Tq.~~~                ~~~1 -  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .< .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .r .   .   .   .gv 
i                                                                                                                D x
9    900-oh                                                                                               '30-0N9O--OhOr "~-LT.
9             O : 389Wwg         >28M    
r.w                                                                           hO NOhahOh'
ha~ ~~ ~ ~ 99-W>                                  W W                            flC't1:   1' hnaI 1 N1 t
>4    o14Nwrk           oasow    M          vlI  t(  -COw 'MN ONNo  ' Eg  -4 
O<<@Q  -HNW ->0 C 1 'Oo'NAO'M   ON   HhN Aoh'MOwNN o H   2  NON~
, oNhM'MhaooN'ho Sn3MhwOri _           ONohh"4  S  O _  H'-49, ,.00W  JO                               h   WOo   
N H9   -1                  FWWW                 
E @149X                 ox~~rh-ttM'M 'M'MM'MM'   83WOONNOONNO-4-44-4--4                       4hOha0- N                08004 _  
Sl ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ONMHM'MN-OOh'-''-ON'Oht'O-O'oh' X0
haONChaUMO~OI-'Q              - 'M ONOOTAMNNO.0'MO -0



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations
Project Benefits
Paddy Production
Without the  With the   Incremental  Portion Kept                Portion sold Ex-mill 4/               Total Benefits (Rounded)
SEMRY      Project    Project    Production   by Farmers 3/           A 5/         B 6/           C  7/         A             B            C
pT    FY         (tons) i/  (tons) 2/    (tons)        (CFAF mln.)   (CFAF min.)  (CFAF mln.)  (CFAF min.)  (CFAF mln.)  (CFAF mln.) (CFAF mln.)
1   1977/78    4,480            -            -                                                                                                          C
2   1978/79    4,480            -            _
3   1979/80    4,480          2,736          -
4   1980/81    4,480         11,250        6,770          71.5          410.3           389.5        368.7          482           461          440
5   1981/82    4,480         22,869       18,389         194.1        1,114.5        1,058.0      1,001.4         1,309         1,252        1,196
6   1982/83    4,480         34,956       30,476         321.6        1,847.1        1,753.4      1,659.6         2,169         2,075        1,981
7   1983/84    4,480         47,466       42,986         453.7        2,605.3        2,473.2      2,340.9         3,059         2,927        2,795
8   1984/85    4,480         47,120       42,640         450.0        2,584.4        2,453.3      2,322.1         3,034         2,903        2,772
9   1985/86    4,480         47,408       42,928         453.1        2,601.8        2,469.8      2,337.7         3,055         2,923        2,791
and later
1/  4,480 ha x 1.0 t/ha.  There has been no upward trend in yields recorded outside the SEMRY I project area since 1952.
2/ From Annex 15.
3/ 15% of incremental production, valued at economic farm-gate price of paddy of CFAF 70,360 per ton.
4/ 85% of incremental production, converted to rice at 0.65.
5/  Valued at weighted economic ex-mill price of CFAF 109,700 per ton of rice (assuming no sales in southern Cameroon).                          _
6/  Valued at weighted economic ex-mill price of CFAF 104,100 per ton of rice (assuming 15% sales in southern Cameroon).
7/  Valued at weighted economic ex-mill price of CFAF  98,600 per ton of rice (assuming 30% sales in southern Cameroon).



- 109 -
CAMEROON                                            ANNEX 19
Table 2
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations
Pro ect Costs 1/
(CFAF million7
2'                 Short-Term     Incremental                   Total
PY      Fiscal Year   Civil Works   Equipment   O & M-'   Personnel        Studies       Family Labor   Total        Rounded
1         1977/78       1,503.1       912.8      53.7       279.5          16.2               -         2,765.3       2,765
2           78/79       1,749.2       711.4      90.8       394.0          39.3               -         2,984.7       2,985
3           79/80         381.0       453.2   143.4         356.5          37.7              8.o        1,379.8      1,380
4           80/81         237.5       137.5    258.2        396.5          36.2             22.0        1,087.9      1,088
5           81/82         283.0       568.8   400.2         377.1          34.6             36.0        1,699.7      1,700
6           82/83         270.2       142.0   540.1         355.6          33.2             51.0        1,392.1       1,392
7           83/84          -           91.8   629.0         189.4            -              66.0          976.2         976
8           84/85          -          214.2   628.7         185.4            -                ';        1,094.3       1,094
9           85/86          -           99.0    630.2        183.8            -                "           979.0         979
10           86/87          -          125.1    628.8        174.9            -                "           994.8         995
il           87/88          -          266.9   628.9           "              -                          1,136.7       1,137
12           88/89          -           97.4       "           "              _                            967.2         967
13           89/9o          -          156.7                                                              , 1o026.5    1,027
14           90/91          -          226.9       "           "                                         1,o96.7       1,097
15           91/92          -          108.4       "           "                               "           978.2         978
16           92/93          -          112.4       "                          -                "           982.2         982
17           93/94          -           66.8       "           "                               "           936.6         937
18           94/95          -          456.3       "           ,                               "         1,326.1       1,326
19           95/96          -          136.5       "                                                      , 1o006.3    1,006
20           96/97          -          644.7       "           't             _                          1,514.5       1,515
21           97/98          -          270.2       "           "                               '         1,140.0      1,140
2            98/99-                    101.1      't                                                       970.9         971
23           99/00          -          101.0                                n                  "           970.8         971
24         2000/01          -          102.5                                n                              972.3         972
25           01/02          -          179,4                                                            o1049.2        1,049
26           02/03         266.7       234.6                                                             1,371.1       1,371
27           03/04         199.3        33.9                                                             1,103.0       1,103
28           o4/05         191.1         93.6      "1,154.5                                                            1,155
29           05/06          53.7       114.4                                                             1,037.9       1,038
30           06/07          89.4       122.8       T1,o82.0                                                           1,o82
31           07/08          90.1       305.1                                  -                          1,265.0       1,265
32           08/09          -          220.4      If1,090.2                                                            1,090
33           09/10          -          466.6                   '                                         1,336.4      1,336
34           10/11          -          107.5      "t                                                       977.3         977
35           11/12          -          524.1                                                             1,393.9      1,394
1/ Including physical contingencies; net of taxes.
2/ Including operation and maintenance of the irrigation scheme, and paddy collection and milling costs. These items are
not included in the project cost tables since they are operational expenditures covered by SEMRY revenue (farmers'
charges and rice sales).



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Summary of Costs and Benefits for Rate of Return Calculations and Sensitivity Tests
(CFAF million)
Base Case                                       Case I  /                                     Case II 3                                     Case II4
Fiscal        Costs            Benefits                       Costs           Benefits                     Costs            Benefits                       Costs            Benefits
py       Year                       A I/      B _        C _/                      A          B         C                        A         B          C                         A          B          C
1     1977/78         2,765          0         0          0               0         0          0         0             0          0         O          0           2,765          0         0          0
2       78/79         2,985                                        2,179         0          0         0         2,939          0         0          0           2,959          0         0          0
3       79/80         1,380          0         0          0          2,885          0          0         0         3,155          0         0          0           1,295          0         0          0
4       80/81         1,o88        482       461        440          2,012          0          0         0         1,298          0         0          0             968        311       298        285
5       81/82         1,700      1,309     1,252     2,196           1,727        482       461        44o           971        311       298        285           1,179        806       771        736
6       82/83         1,392      2,169     2,075      1 981           2,389     1,309      1,252     1,196         1,186        806       771        736           1,597     1,361      1,302      1,243
7       83/84           976      3,059     2,927      2,795           2,094     2,169      2,075     1,981         1,622      1,361     1,302      1,243           1,024     1,677      1,604      1,532
8       84/85         1,094      3,034     2,903      2,772             979     3,059      2,927     2,795         1,100      1,677     1,604      1,532           1,248     2,283      2,184      2,o85
9       85/86           979      3,055     2,923     2,791           1,098      3,034      2,903     2,772         1,310      2,283     2,184      2,085             992     2,889      2,764      2,639
10       86/87           995                             "               982     3,055      2,923     2,791         1,001      2,889     2,764      2,639           1,021      3,265     3,124      2,983
il        87/88        1,137                  "          '               998       "          "                     1,027      3,265     3,124      2,983           1,126      3,055     2,923      2,791
12       88/89           967                  "          "             1,140 o                                      1,131      3,055     2,923      2,791             958
13       89/90         1,027        "         "          '               970       "          '          '            961                                             o 1016
14       90/91         1,097                  "                       1,030                             "           1,019        '          '                       1,098
15       91/92           978v                                         1,100        "                                1,101        "         "                          995
16       92/93         1,134        "                                    981       "                                  998        "                                  1,115- 5
17        93/94          "                    "          "            1,137                      5      "           1,118 2/    "          " n                                   "                             o
18       94/95   1  s I  I  t  e
19       95/96           "
20       96/97                      "         "          "               "         "          "
21       97/98           '                                                                    ,
22       98/99                      "         '          "               "                                                                  ,,
23        99/00                                '         '                                                                       ,,
24     2000/01                      "         "
25       01/02 
26        02/03           '         '         r,                                                                                                                       ,
27        03/04          "          r,
28        o4/05
29       05/06
30       06/07
31       07/08           "          "         "                                                                                                                        r 
32       08/09           "
33    09/1 i tI lI lI lI lI te 
34        10/11                                                                               ,          , *,
35     2011/12I
Rates of Betomn               14.7%      13.9%      13.1%                     13.3%      12.4%     11.6%                    12.2%      11.5%     10.7%                      12.7%      12.0%     11.3%
_/ For explanation of benefit stresms A, B and C see Table 1 of this Annex and Annex 16, Table 4.
2/ Project start delayed by one year; polder development done by contractor instead of on force account.
3/ Project start delayed by one year; polder development over eight instead of six years; some SOGREAH personnel retained for eight years; Cemeroonization delayed for tVe years.
/ Polder development over eight instead of six years; some SOGREAH personnel retained for eight years.
5/ Annual coet estimates averaged out over 20 years.
D H
'o



- 111 -                           ANHNEX 1 9
Table 4
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Rates of Return
Cost Stream
Benefii Str, m       Base Case        Case Il/   Case II1/    Case III1/
A                  14.75         13.35         12.25         12.75
A-10%              12.85         11.35         10.55         11.05
A+10%             16.65          15.15         13.75         14.35
B                 13.95          12.45         11.55         12,05
B-10%             12.05          10.55          9.85         10.35
B+10%              15.75         14.25         13.05         13.65
C                 .13.15         11.65         10.75         11.35
C-10%             11.15           9.75          9.15          9.65
C+10%              14.85         13.45         12.25         12.85
D 2~/              11.95         10,45          9.75         10O25
D-10%              10.05          8.55          8,05          8.55
D+10%              13.65         12.15         11.25         11.85
I/   For explanation of main features of cases 1, II and ITI see
Table 3 of this Annex.
2/   Benefit stream D is calculated on the assumption that 50% of
SEMRY production is sold in southern Camerooh.






g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ gi:
= W a:2X3i r 43Y g S S m-g'6t ggaaq6=t m7ffi-g3alfflggEg B-E7PRg  E T
geC,    S
_- ~ ~~~  ~ R3  E  3         4i * * *rR  
Nk.
i-* 30; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                F_ _iI  "-;  
4;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
tSi  E3Tbk              Me gX   
I m  t   ;                              dhs  n1) X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a
MbONG-O
16~






<  >    t  g             W  ;  j. \t                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R e p u b   ic
\    /Ag#//-n/'c s: ,-<u.nu,c,'te 
3^ ne dan rucfureae 1 419;                                                                  .5i$   NM  ji n* ;r                                                 ;
i     R ce m        r*-.Braa\/                                                                                                                                            0
uXMIdctive   'et emnt                           s-ie=s/   
4405V/C  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"~                                                                        
nRzCSAE                                           c'                                                  Snj    
/A'
X~~~~~~~~~'  c' B2 -8  0 o'  5*Dma>DAL
L  (oa 7                                                          ~        0<f00  <   ''$                              ''.   \Yc'   'g Co
'q~~c 
*RJC                 i          n d   y               *3
,ic/,rs/ur        .                                               77-rs7 a                                     iii!5\.   T/=                              tm5
-    -Itrain /oundcres        ~-                             MILES '' *tDorbess't 1
RI'Rd e.j le
/-  $'/'/S     1                 /,,,'  i              i   <~ 
Ne,~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~' 
PMi/,r '/S'TAGE7' 
U1978-79 BOO h.                    i           '             i   vs-; /  ~'
~~~979\iVV6V0/ i1i  ,y jcJY   h/                                                                       V  
1980-81\ p1yY,V                                  ',n500i   Ydy hi&   iV   /,iV             /pL~     fte
i i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA
98 -82 ~           ~                      ',~/%V/VV;i
C4ERO                                  .' n...iks-                                                             ..LiL.  /V/4/i/
SECND   EMR R- CE PRJETL                                                      N'   \                   'K 'TERV//iS
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BgePlt



