FILE COPY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2151-CN
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
January 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT               -         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                         =        CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000                  =         US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000              =         US$4,082
1/   Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE           : Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
FAC            : Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FONADER        : Fonds National de Developpement Rural
SEMRY          : Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de
la Riziculture de Yagoua
SOGRAPH        : Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications
Hydrauliques
FISCAL YEAR
Government, SEMRY and FONADER
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:                      US$14.5 million IDA Credit
US$14.5 million IBRD Loan
Terms:                       Credit:  Standard
Loan:    20 years including 5 years of
grace at annual interest rate
of 7.45 percent. 1/
Project Description:         The proposed project would lead to the production
of rice and other crops on 15,000 ha which would
be protected from flooding through the construction
of two dikes. It would be located some 70 km
north of the SEMRY I site. Of the 15,000 ha,
7,000 ha would be irrigated by gravity, thereby
permitting two rice crops per year, and 8,000 ha
would be under traditional rainfed cultivation.
Irrigation water would be provided by a reservoir
covering a maximum of 38,000 ha. The reservoir
would offer potential for fishery development,
and its fringes would provide pasture land
throughout the dry season. The project would be
carried out over a six-year period (1977/78 -
1982/83) and would consist of:
(a)  constructing two dikes, totalling 48 km, with main
intake structure, feeder canal, regulators, and
drainage outfall;
(b)  constructing an irrigation and drainage system,
including on-farms works and feeder roads, serving
an area of 7,000 ha;
(c)  constructing access roads linking, in particular,
the main localities in the project area, viz.
Tekele, Pouss, Maga and Guirvidig, totalling 50 km;
1/   Since the Appraisal Report was completed before the end of the last
quarter of 1977, the Bank lending rate used there is 7.9 percent p.a.
instead of the rate of 7.45 percent p.a. applicable during the first
quarter of 1978 announced on January 3, 1978.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
otf their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(d)  constructing a headquarters and services complex,
including staff housing, garages, warehouses, a
rice mill, storage facilities, and an airstrip;
(e)  providing heavy earthmoving and agricultural equip-
ment, and vehicles;
(f)  Staffing and equipping the project authority,
training local staff, and conducting applied
research and studies;
(g)  providing 7,000 participating farm families,
half of whom would be resettled, with support
services including credit; and
(h)  providing a health program for the project
area.
Co-Firnancing:                CCCE loan of US$8.1 million equivalent, with
interest rate of 5.5 percent, repayable over
20 years, including 5 years of grace. FAC
grant of US$4.0 million equivalent.
On-Lending Terms:             One-third of the Bank and IDA funds would be
passecl on to Semry as a grant and two-thirds
as a Loan at 6.75 percent interest p.a. with
a term of 35 years, including a six-year grace
period. Of the CCCE funds, half would be a
participation in equity, one-third a grant
and one-sixth a loan at 5.5 percent interest
p.a. with a term of 35 years, including a six-
year grace period. The FAC funds would be
passed to SEMRY as a grant and the Govern-
ment's contribution partly as a grant (one-
fourth) and partly as equity. The rate of
interest to be charged by Semry to partici-
pating farmers for the credit program would
be 10 percent p.a.
Estimated Cost:               Project costs, including indirect taxes, are
estimated at US$55.5 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$41.1 million or 74
percent. Project costs net of taxes are esti-
mated at US$51.0 million. Physical and price
contingencies together would amount to US$13.3
million or 32 percent of base cost estimates.



- iii -
Project Cost Summary
% of Total
Local     Foreign        Total          Project
--------- US$ thousands ---------        Costs
Civil Works                      4.6        13.0         17.6               32
Equipment                        1.6        10.1         11.7               21
Operation & Maintenance          0.6         1.8          2.4                4
Personnel                        3.9         5.7          9.6               17
Short-Term Studies               0.1         0.8          0.9                2
Contingencies                    3.6         9.7         13.3               24
Total Project Cost              14.4        41.1         55.5              100
Taxes                            4.5         -            4.5
Total (net of taxes)           9.9        41.1         51.0
Financing Plan:                 Local      Foreign       Total        % of Total
US$ million --------------  Financing
IBRD/IDA                                   29.0          29.0              52
CCCE                                        8.1           8.1              15
FAC                                         4.0           4.0               7
Government                      14.4         -           14.4              26
Total                        14.4       41.1          55.5            100
Retroactive Financing:  For climatic reasons, the start of civil works is
scheduled for January/February 1978, requiring mobil-
ization costs of approximately US$1.6 million in late
1977. Since the Government has tendered, under inter-
national competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank, and since contracts have to be awarded
well ahead of the signing of the loan and credit, it
is proposed that an amount of US$1.6 million would be
financed retroactively under this project.
Estimated Disbursement
of IDA Credit and
Bank Loan:                                 Amounts in US$ thousands
Bank/IDA Fiscal Year:  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980-1981  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84
Annual                     3.39      9.13     6.46       2.62       3.31      2.91     1.18
Cumulative                 3.39    12.52    18.98       21.60      24.91    27.82    29.00
Rate of Return:           The SEMRY II Project would have an estimated economic
return of 14 percent, with benefits based on increased
rice production which would raise net incomes of the
7,000 participating farm families more than threefold
to about US$745 per annum. The project would also
lead to improvements in livestock, fisheries, health
and dry farming in the area.



- iv -
Risks:                   There are no special risks associated with this
project.
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 1722a-CM dated December 29, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$14.5 million and a development credit for the
equivalent of US$14.5 million to the United Republic of Cameroon to help
finance a project to increase production of rice and other crops. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 7.45 percent per annum; the development credit would be on standard IDA
terms. The grant element corresponding to this Bank/IDA blend would be
49.16 percent. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) of France will also participate in the
project's financing. The CCCE loan of US$8.1 million equivalent would have
a rate of interest of 5.5 percent annually, and would be repayable over 20
years, including a five-year grace period. The FAC contribution of US$4.0
million equivalent would be a grant. One-third of the Bank and IDA funds
would be passed on to Semry as a grant and two-thirds as a loan at 6.75
percent interest per annum with a term of 35 years, including a six-year
grace period. Of the CCCE funds, half would be a participation in equity,
one-third a grant and one-sixth a loan at 5.5 percent interest per annum
with a term of 35 years, including a six-year grace period. The FAC funds
would be passed on to SEMRY as a grant and the Government's contribution of
US$14.4 million as equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. In October and November 1976, an economic mission
visited Cameroon and its findings are incorporated below; a report is in
preparation.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a population of about 7.6 million (1976) and covers
an area of 475,000 km . The country's natural resources are varied, but
not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions permit culti-
vation of a wider range of crops than is commonly found in West Africa, and
the forest areas of the southeast contain large untapped timber resources.
The north holds promising potential for livestock development and produc-
tion of irrigated rice.



- 2 -
4.         The main .rportunities for development in Cameroon lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing
of agricultural and forestry products for exports. A bauxite project is in
the early stages of preparation, and offshore oil and gas exploration is also
being carried out and has yielded some promising results.
5.         Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities.  Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by
vast inderpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export route
for landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and inland
transport infrastructure are essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and
industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
6.         During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment's primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious internal
political and social tensicns.  Output of agriculture and industry grew
rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, resulted in
a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged about 14
percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector with the largest part
devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate development con-
straint. A major effort was also directed at expanding education and diver-
sifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal revenues combined with
stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable budget surpluses that made it
possible to accumulate reserves and to finance a large part (up to 40 percent)
of public investment out of local revenues. However, this policy also imposed
excessive restraint on much needed current expenditure in such areas as road
maintenance, public health, and education.
7.         During the period 1971-1976, growth of real GDP slowed to about
3 percent per annum compared with a population growth rate of about 2 per-
cent. This was caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's control such as:
(i) low export prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971 and 1972; (ii) several
years of drought in the north; (iii) a decline in domestic and foreign private
investment, triggered primarily by the relative stagnation of the agricultural
sector and by the completion of the first wave of import substitution projects
during the preceding decade; (iv) a drop in 1975 in world demand for both
cocoa and timber; and finally (v) rapidly rising import prices. Per capita
income in 1976 reached about US$300.
8.         The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up public
investiment, which increased by 50 -percent to reach annual averages of about
US$190.0 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Development Plan
(1972-1976). At the same time, it placed greater emphasis on agricultural
output. Within a public investment program averaging 11 percent of GDP, rural
development comprised about 12.5 percent, transport infrastructure and communi-
cations 24.1 percent, energy 6.2 percent, and education 4.0 percent. Since
nearly 75 percent of public investment was in sectors where its contribution
to dom,estic output is both indirect and delayed, the impact of this substan-
tial investment effort on economic growth was limited during the Third Plan



- 3 -
period. In addition, physical realizations were in many cases less than
projected due largely to substantial cost increases and the subsequent need
to either reduce the scope of projects or defer them.
9.        The balance of payments was not a major constraint until recent
years. However, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a result of
worldwide inflation and heavy public development expenditure, especially
in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined, particu-
larly exports of timber, causing a sizeable current account deficit in 1975.
Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted in a fall
in reserves from a level equal to nearly three months of import requirements
in 1970 to one-half month at the end of 1975. Due mainly to considerably
improved export demand and higher prices, especially for coffee and timber,
by May 1976 gross reserves had recovered to the level of 1972 and 1973.
However, because of continuing international inflation, Cameroon's official
gross international reserves in mid-1977 still covered less than one month of
import requirements, a low level by usual international standards but still
acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African monetary
union.
Prospects and Development Strategy
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be
carried out under the Fourth Plan (1977-1981). A Bank economic mission
discussed its recommendations on the level and composition of public invest-
ment with the Government in November 1975 and agreed on overall priorities.
It is anticipated that short- and medium-term growth of GDP will be about
6 percent per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during the
1960s. The new Five-Year Plan has set a very ambitious public investment
target of over US$2.0 billion in constant 1974 dollars or more than two
times that achieved during the preceding Plan period. The Plan gives in-
creasing emphasis to the development of directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. The share of transport infrastructure investments
will decline somewhat but remain high in absolute figures, while invest-
ments in electric energy will increase. These changes in sectoral priori-
ties are very much in line with the recommendations of the 1975 economic
mission.
11.       To ensure that appropriate priorities will in fact be achieved,
the Government will need to strengthen its ability to choose, prepare, and
implement projects, particularly in the rural and transport sectors. Some
progress is being made in this direction. Special planning units are grad-
ually being established within the technical ministries. A Government-owned
consulting firm, the "Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique",
has been created under the Ministry of Economy and Planning to accelerate
project preparation. Commercially-oriented public corporations are also
serving to strengthen the project implementation capacity of the public
sector. Nevertheless, further improvements are needed, particularly in
the management of public corporations and in strengthening and coordinating
rural development institutions. A Technical Assistance Credit will support



- 4 -
efforts recently undertaken by the Government in these fields by providing
technical assistance experts, training local staff, and financing high
priority studies and project preparation in key economic sectors.
12.        Even assuming these improvements take place, absorptive capacity
is likely to limit the rate of investment in the high priority sectors. With
respect to the overall investment level, financial considerations also sug-
gest that public investment during the Fourth Plan is unlikely to exceed
US$1.7 billion in constant 1974 dollars, or some US$450.0 million per year
in current dollars. Budgetary revenues have reached about 17 percent of GDP
and carnot be expected to increase much faster than the economy as a whole.
Current: expenditures, on the contrary, will expand more rapidly as a result
of recent increases in public investment in transport, education, and health.
Furthermore, public debt charges will grow rapidly, particularly those of
public enterprises, and will absorb an increasing share of public savings.
In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (1977-1978), thanks to
favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service are estimated to
about 65 percent of total public investment. However, in 1979-1981, public
savings after debt service are projected to finance only about 30 percent of
total public investment and this share of domestic public financing is likely
to continue in the longer run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly
on external financing for the bulk of its public investment. Under these
circumstances, foreign lenders should continue to finance a high proportion
of total project costs of externally financed projects including local costs
in appropriate cases.
13.        An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of
deteriorating terms of trade will require careful foreign debt management.
Cameroon continues to be creditworthy for World Bank financing on the basis
of its ability to maintain and improve productivity in the utilization of
the country's resources in the medium-term and its potential in the long-
term to further diversify the economy by developing still unexploited re-
sources. On the reasonable assumption that at least 50 percent of foreign
public capital inflow will be on concessionary terms, the foreign debt ser-
vice ratio could be maintained below 13 percent by 1983.
PART II - BANK GROIJP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.        The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$309.6 mil-
lion and cover twenty-four projects: ten in agriculture, eight in transporta-
tion, thiree in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-scale
enterprise project, and one technical assistance project. Transportation
represents the largest share (44 percent) of our past commitments followed
by agriculture (38 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits as of November 30, 1977 and includes notes on ongoing
projects. Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in
the execution of projects, the Government has consistently collaborated with
the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.



- 5 -
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and, in the process, create productive employment in rural
areas; to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of Cameroon's
institutions.
16.       Bank Group assistance to Cameroon supports the priority the Govern-
ment rightly attaches to the regional distribution of agricultural development
and to a sound balance between improving conditions in the traditional sector
and promoting plantation agriculture, including smallholder schemes. Thus
we have helped the Government create an effective and well-managed plantation
sector by financing oil palm and rubber plantations in the east and west. At
the same time, we have helped promote smallholder rice irrigation and live-
stock in the north. The ongoing cocoa project is helping to modernize cocoa
growing by smallholders and to raise rural productivity in areas south and
west of the capital. The rubber project approved in June 1975 is helping
develop the south-west coastal region. Rural development projects in popu-
lated but poor regions are being established with the assistance of the Bank.
The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project, which was approved by the Board
in February 1977, will help finance studies and a three-year pilot scheme
required before a full-scale rural development program can be launched. The
recently approved Rural Development Fund Project is designed to help the
Government establish the machinery for processing and implementing small-scale
rural development schemes. The Second SOCAPALM Project approved in March
1977, is a follow-up to a successful oil palm project (SOCAPALM I), which has
been completed, and is a first step in promoting smallholder oil palm planta-
tions in Cameroon. Field appraisals for the Zapi-East Rural Development
Project and for the Western Highlands Rural Development Project have recently
been completed and the projects are scheduled to be presented to the Board
during FY78. Also scheduled for presentation to the Board in FY78 is a tree
crop estate and smallholder development project in the west, a follow-up of
the Bank Group financed CAMDEV project. Besides promoting much needed food-
stuffs production, increased Bank Group lending for agriculture will support
the Government's effort to focus on rural development in order to improve
income distribution and to achieve a better balance in regional development.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The Second Highway Project of September
1973 was designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system.
The project has encountered severe cost overruns partly alleviated by a
Supplementary Credit approved in March 1976. The Second Railway Project
of September 1974 has focused on track improvement and expansion of the
equipment needed to maintain and augment the railway's overall carrying
capacity. Given projected sharp traffic increases, and the backlog of



-6-
required investments, substantial capital outlays are still necessary par-
ticularly for the expansion of the Port of Douala, which is being assisted
by a Bank loan and IDA credit, and some related facilities such as a rail-
way station and marshalling yard to be built outside the port area. An
engineering loan, approved in May 1976, will help complete the engineering
of this station and marshalling yard. A study of the improvements required
in the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor, which was financed under a Bank-
financed project and designed to help determine an economically optimal
investment strategy for this corridor, has led to a proposed investment
package that is being discussed between the Government and a number of aid-
giving agencies, including the Bank. Future road investments should place
greater emphasis on road maintenance and on developing the network of feeder
and farm access roads. Our operations in the road sector have been planned
accordingly. The Feeder Roads Project approved on November 15, 1977 will
establish institutions for feeder roads administration and maintenance in
addition to providing the necessary resources for a feeder road program to
support high priority agricultural/rural development projects. The pro-
posed Third Highway Project, which will finance the reconstruction of the
Garona-Figuil Road and will provide technical assistance and fellowships to
strengthen the transport planninig capability of the Ministry of Transport,
is scheduled for Board consideration in late January 1978. A proposed Fourth
Highway project, currently under preparation, will concentrate on road main-
tenance and rehabilitation. In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprise Project, approved in July 1975, focuses mainly on developing
locaL entrepreneurship.  A Third Education project, approved in April 1976,
places special emphasis on rural education and training.
18.       In all our projects, we include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in June
1977, will help strengthen Government services in several key ministries in-
volved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing. In
addition, through our economic work we will continue to advise the authorities,
at their request, on development questions in general, and on particular mat-
ters such as economic management, problems of industrial and manpower devel-
opment. To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our future
lending strategy will require continuing emphasis on strengthening the insti-
tutional framework, particularly concerning project planning, preparation and
implementation in transportation and rural and urban development.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
external aid to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year.  While
at the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the
proportion of loans slowly increased. A major part of external assistance
was provided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and produc-
tive sectors. The European Development Fund and European Investment Bank
directed their lending mainly to agriculture, with infrastructure in second
place. Bank and IDA disbursements were small during this period. From 1972
to 1976 overall disbursements of foreign aid increased to about US$90 million



with one-fifth as grants. The Bank Group's share of these inflows amounted
to about 23 percent. Our lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated
with other donors; in twelve of our twenty-four projects, joint or parallel
co-financing arrangements have been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1976
amounted to US$529 million and is projected to reach US$2.1 billion in 1983.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 5.9 per-
cent in 1976 and is projected to reach 12.4 percent in 1983. At that time
annual foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 7 per-
cent consisting of grants. At end-1976 IBRD debt accounted for 10.9 percent
of Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 11.4 percent of
public debt service.. IDA credits accounted for 13.5 percent of public debt
outstanding and 1.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank Group is ex-
pected to account for about 22 percent of total public debt and 13 percent
of public debt service in 1983.
21.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, IFC Board approved an equity
investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate (SAFACAM).
The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate by producing rubber for export and palm oil for the domestic
market. The operation will also facilitate participation by domestic share-
holders. On November 29, 1977, the Board approved a third operation consist-
ing of an investment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a promo-
tional company for maize development.
PART III - THE SECTOR
22.       Agriculture including forestry and livestock plays a major role
in the Cameroon economy, providing a livelihood for about 75 percent of the
population and accounting for 35 percent of GDP and over 70 percent of the
value of exports. The agricultural sector can be divided into two major
subsectors: traditional agriculture and industrial plantations. The tradi-
tional subsector accounts for over 90 percent of agricultural output. It
comprises some one million smallholders cultivating plots averaging about
two hectares each using family labor. Smallholders produce foodcrops for
subsistence and for the local market, cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts
for export. Cattle-raising mainly by nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoralists
in northern Cameroon and the north-central Adamaoua plateau accounts for
about 15 percent of the production of the traditional subsector. The indus-
trial plantation subsector comprises several large government-owned and a
few private industrial estates (foreign-owned) producing palm oil (mainly
for domestic consumption) and rubber (for export). Additionally, the country
has vast forestry resources which are only partially tapped.



-8-
23.       Production of foodstuffs; expanded over the past five years at an
annual rate of about 5.0 percent, which was ahead of population growth. But
this was due mainly to rapid growth in the output of vegetables, potatoes and,
to some degree, rice in response to growing urban demand. At the same time,
there was stagnation in the output of traditional staples, such as maize (in
the west), plantains, yams, cassava and cocoyams (in the center-south) and
millet and sorghum in the north (here, production was adversely affected by
the Sahelian drought). Although Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in
foodstuffs, imports of wheat and rice (again mainly for urban consumption)
have risen sharply since 1970. Marketing of food crops is almost exclusively
in the hands of private traders, mlost of whom operate over limited areas and
with a small turnover.
24.       Agricultural services are provided by a variety of government and
parastatal organizations. At Government level, the Ministries of Agriculture
and Livestock have primary responsibility for most aspects of agricultural
and animal production, respectively. The parastatal sector is composed of
Development Companies which are charged with specific agricultural programs
or projects usually built around as single product. They include SODEPA for
livestock, SOCAPALM for oil palm, SODECAO for cocoa, SODECOTON for cotton and
SEMRY for rice.
25.       The Bank supports the Government's efforts to achieve a balance
between the growth of overpopulated traditional areas and of less populated
but potentially productive areas in the south and east. This strategy in-
volved developing both industrial companies and smallholder schemes. In
that context, the Bank's lending in the agricultural sector has three main
objectives: firstly, increasing technical and managerial capabilities,
strengthening institutions, and improving sector policies, mainly through
training and technical assistance; secondly, improving foreign exchange
position through expanding production and export of agricultural products;
and thirdly, increasing the productivity of the overpopulated and poor rural
areas. The project which is the subject of this report is designed to meet
these objectives.
zb.       The first SEMRY Rice project (Credit 302-CM), approved in 1972,
aimed at increasing rice production by the construction of an irrigation
network providing a fully controlled water supply, and by the provision to
farmers of inputs, mechanical services and extension. Total project cost
including taxes was estimated to bie US$8.0 million; the IDA contribution was
US$3.7 million, while French aid (FAC and CCCE) provided US$2.6 million to
finance technical assistance and consultant services, as well as local ex-
penditures for extension and research.  In 1976, FAC and CCCE contributed
an additional US$3.2 million to extend technical assistance and consultant
services for one year, provide additional storage, and complete irrigation
works on an additional 800 ha. A completion report was issued in May 1977,
which lndicates that the first project was carried out on schedule and
results to date have been markedly better than expected. Project execution
was on schedule with 4,500 ha comp:Leted by April 1976 and the additional
800 ha under the supplementary credit by mid-1977, or 1,000 ha more than



originally foreseen. The project has been well managed, and production
results are so far considerably better than estimated: paddy production
in 1976/77 was 24,500 tons compared with an original estimate of 12,300
tons, as farmers have readily adopted double cropping, and yields in both
seasons are about 50% higher than expected at appraisal. Some 3,400 farm
families now participate in the project, compared with the 2,800 families
estimated at appraisal. At full development, their average net income (after
payment of all charges) is projected to reach US$890, or almost three times
the appraisal estimate. With larger paddy production and higher paddy prices,
the economic rate of return is estimated at 19-22 percent compared with an
appraisal estimate of 11 percent. Instrumental in achieving the above results
has been the effectiveness of SEMRY's management, aided by strong support from
the Cameroonian authorities. Replacement of expatriates by Cameroonians at
management level lagged behind the schedule agreed upon during negotiations;
Government has resisted adherence to the schedule arguing that it would not
allow enought time for Cameroonians to receive sufficient training to assume
positions of responsibility. But, in 1976, four Cameroonians took up manage-
ment positions, and their number is expected to double by the end of 1977.
The performance of Cameroonians in the project is good.
27.       Despite the rapid rise in production, SEMRY has not experienced
any major difficulties in selling its rice though outlets have been somewhat
different from those envisaged, in that, until 1976, almost all output was
absorbed by the domestic market. This was because: (a) internal rice de-
mand grew considerably faster than incomes during the 1970s, and (b) price
increases on imported rice put SEMRY in a competitive position in the south-
ern markets until 1975. With the subsequent decline in international prices,
sales of SEMRY rice to the domestic market declined and exports to Nigeria
increased, reaching 60 percent of total sales during 1976/77.
28.       For services rendered, farmers are paying back to SEMRY, on average,
44 percent of their gross income from paddy production. These charges fully
cover the cost of cash inputs (seedlings, fertilizer) and network operation
and maintenance, and partly cover the cost of custom plowing, extension ser-
vices, and amortization of the irrigation network. However, SEMRY has a sur-
plus on its operating account arising from the excess of the margin between
rice and paddy prices over the costs of collection and milling. This sur-
plus offers scope for an increase in the producer price which has lagged
behind equivalent prices paid elsewhere in Cameroon. The project's imple-
mentation to date has also had a favorable impact on the local population.
Some 1,600 applicants for irrigated holdings could not be satisfied, dis-
pelling the uncertainty at appraisal as to whether sufficient farmers would
be prepared to take on the heavy workload and accept the discipline of work
to which they were traditionally unaccustomed.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Introduction
29.       The Government of Camerooii has requested the Bank Group and two
French aid agencies, FAC and CCCE, to help finance a second SEMRY Rice Irri-
gation project. The project would build on experience with the first SEMRY
Rice Project (Credit 302-CM) which was completed in 1976. The feasibility
study for the proposed project was prepared by consultants in 1974, updated
in 1976, and supplemented by a rice market study in 1975. A Bank 1/ mission
appraised the project in May/June 1977. A report entitled "Appraisal of a
Second SEMRY Rice Project, Camercon" (No. 1722a-CM of December 29, 1977) is
being circulated separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from
November 1 to November 4, 1977 with a Cameroonian delegation which was led by
Mr. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of the United Republic of Cameroon in Washington.
Purpose
30.       The proposed project, located some 70 km north of the SEMRY I site,
would lead to the production of rice and other crops on 15,000 ha which would
be protected from flooding by the construction of two dikes. Of the 15,000
ha, 7,000 ha would be irrigated by gravity permitting two rice crops per year,
and on the remaining 8,000 ha farmers would continue growing rice and other
traditional crops. Irrigation water would be provided by a reservoir cover-
ing a maximum of 38,000 ha. The reservoir would offer potential for fishery
development, and its fringes would provide pasture land throughout the dry
season.
Project Description
31.       The project would be carried out over a six-year period (1977/78
to 1982/83), and consist of:
(a)  constructing two dikes, totalling 48 km, with main intake
structure, feeder canal, regulators, and drainage outfall;
(b) constructing an irrigation and drainage system, including
on-farm works and feeder roads, serving an area of 7,000 ha;
(c) constructing access roads linking, in particular, the main
localities in the project area, viz. Tekele, Pouss, Maga
and Guirvidig, totalling 50 kmi;
1/   In this report the term "Bank" generally also refers to IDA.



- 11 -
(d) constructing a headquarters and services complex, includ-
ing staff housing, garages, warehouses, as well as a rice
mill, storage facilities and an airstrip;
(e) providing heavy earthmoving and agricultural equipment,
and vehicles;
(f) staffing and equipping the project authority, training
local staff, and conducting applied research and studies;
(g) providing 7,000 participating farm families, half of whom
would be resettled, with support services including credit;
and
(h) providing a health program for the project area.
Field Development
32.       About half of the 7000 farm families expected to participate in the
project are now living in the project area. The remainder will be resettled,
partly from the surrounding highlands and riverain land north of the project
area. Within SEMRY management, direct responsibility for execution of the
resettlement program would be with the extension coordinator, assisted by
the extension, research and livestock services. Title to the land would be
vested in SEMRY and farmers' rights safeguarded under the rules of the "Cahier
des Charges", defining the rights and obligations of farmers cultivating the
SEMRY land. These arrangements have worked satisfactorily under the first
SEMRY project. The project area would be connected with the provincial north-
south trunk road by the road from Guirvidig to Bogo. This road needs to be
improved to all-weather standards in order to serve the project area, and
assurances were obtained from Government that this would be done before
June 1, 1980 (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
33.       Irrigated rice cultivation techniques to be used under the pro-
posed project would be the same as those in use under the first SEMRY proj-
ect. SEMRY would carry out the seedbed preparation in each irrigation unit,
and farmers would be notified sufficiently in advance to collect the seed-
lings for transplanting in the fields allotted to them. SEMRY would provide
land preparation, seedlings, fertilizer, pesticides if necessary, and farm
equipment (pedal threshers, carts), to participating farmers on credit. The
cost of plowing, seedlings and fertilizers would be repaid at harvest time
through a consolidated fee. Equipment would require a down payment of 20
percent and would be paid off within three years. The rate of interest would
be uniformly 10 percent per annum, which is consistent with present agricul-
tural credit practices in Cameroon. Total credit requirements under the
scheme are expected to rise to about US$1.8 million annually at full devel-
opment.
34.       SEMRY would administer the credit program of FONADER, would pro-
cure and pay directly for fertilizers and farm equipment in the quantities



- 12 -
requested by SEMRY. A draft Agreement between FONADER and SEMRY has been
drawn up indicating, inter alia, the division of interest income from fer-
tilizer and equipment credit: one half would go to FONADER, one sixth to
SEMRY as a commission for its services, and the balance into a contingency
fund to cover unpaid debts. Losses not covered by the contingency fund
would be borne by FONADER. Assurances have been obtained that the final
agreement between FONADER and SEMRY would be acceptable to the Bank, and
that it would be concluded not later than June 30, 1978 (Section 3.02 (a)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.05 (b) of the draft
Project Agreement).
35.       As hygiene is poor and existing health services reach only a
fraction of the population, and the creation of the reservoir is likely to
increase the incidence of disease, particularly malaria and schistosomiasis,
a health program has been included in the proposed project. The tentative
program covers five measures to improve public health: (1) constructing and
equipping a health center in Maga and three propharmacies in Yagoua, Maga and
Guirvidig; (2) upgrading of the clepartmental center of preventive medicine
at Yagoua and the health centers in Pouss and Guirvidig; (3) constructing
enclosed potable water wells; (4) training of medical personnel; and (5)
improving mother-and-child care amd endemic disease control. The program
would be carried out by SEMRY undler contract with the Ministry of Health.
Assurances have been obtained thaLt the detailed program and proposals for
its implementation would be formulated and sent to the Bank for its concur-
rence not later than June 30, 1978 (Sections 2.02(b) and 2.06 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Water Rights
36.       In accordance with the existing Logone Water Agreement between
Cameroon and Chad, Cameroon informed Chad in 1975 of its intention to carry
out the proposed project. In January 1976, the two countries signed a docu-
ment in which Chad gave its agreement in principle to the execution of the
proposed project. The document also provided for the establishment of a
joint technical commission to monitor any possible adverse effects that
might arise as a result of the project. By a letter of December 10, 1977,
the Bank has received confirmation from the Government of Chad that it has
no objections to the proposed Semry II project. Assurance had been obtained
under the first SEMRY Project that Government would take all necessary steps
to ensure that no works would be permitted to take place on the Logone river
which could have an adverse effect on agricultural development in the project
area. This assurance has been repeated under the present project (Section
4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
37.       For the purposes of the project, SEMRY would be reorganized.  A
Directorate General would be created with overall management responsibility,
under which two departments, SEMRY I and SEMRY II, would be in charge of



- 13 -
day-to-day operations and their respective project areas. SEHRY staff would
also implement a training program with the assistance of a training special-
ist who would be appointed no later than September 30, 1978 (Section 2.02 (b)
of the draft Project Agreement); be responsible for applied research; admin-
ister a credit scheme for its farmers and upgrade existing health services.
It is expected that initially most senior staff positions in the Directorate
General and SEMRY II would be filled by expatriates. Expatriate staff input
would amount to 64 man-years over the project implementation period, reaching
its peak in project year 4. The cost to the project of the expatriate staff
averages US$90,000 per person annually and of the supervisory consultants some
US$7,800 per month. The large number of expatriates is necessary because the
project demands skilled and experienced personnel not yet readily available
in Cameroon and the training of Cameroonian personnel under the project will
inevitably take time. SEMRY will retain the services of the engineering con-
sultants, who performed satisfactorily under the first SEMRY project, for the
supervision of civil works as well as on force account (Section 2.02 (a) of
the draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing Arrangements
38.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$51.0
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$41.1 million (81 percent).
The project would be exempted from import taxes and duties. Project costs
including indirect taxes are estimated at US$55.5 million equivalent; physical
and price contingencies together would amount to US$13.4 million or 32 percent
of base cost estimates. The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit, amounting to
US$29.0 million, would finance 57 percent of total project costs, net of taxes.
The CCCE loan of US$8.1 million would finance 16 percent of project costs, net
of taxes, and would be disbursed pari passu with the Bank Group financing. The
FAC grant of US$4.0 million would cover the cost of expatriate salaries during
the project implementation period. The Government's contribution of US$14.4
million would finance all local costs, including some US$4.5 million taxes.
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit would be the
execution of the Financing Agreement between SEMRY and the Government and
the signature of the first-year grant agreement between FAG and Government,
and the loan agreement between CCCE and Government (Section 6.01 (a) and (c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       Because of the limited period during which the area is accessi-
ble for heavy equipment, the start of civil works is scheduled for January/
February 1978. Consequently, a mobilization payment of approximately US$1.1
million for the civil works contract, a down payment of about US$400,000 for
the equipment contract and US$100,000 for engineering consultants services,
had to be paid in late 1977. Since the Government has tendered under inter-
national competitive bidding and since contracts have to be awarded well
ahead of the signing of the loan and credit, it is proposed that an amount
of up to US$1.6 million be financed retroactively (Schedule 1, para. 3 of the
draft Project Agreement).



- 14 -
40.       One-third of the Bank and IDA funds would be passed on to SEMRY
as a grant and two-thirds as a loan of 6.75 percent interest per annum with
a term of 35 years, including a six-year grace period. Of the CCCE funds,
half would be a participation in equity, one-third a grant and one-sixth
a loan at 5.5 percent interest per annum with a term of 35 years, including
a six-year grace period. As under the first project, the FAC funds would be
passed on to SEMRY as a grant, and one-quarter of the Government's contribu-
tion as a grant and the remainder as equity.
Procurement
41.       Contracts have been awarded following ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines for: (1) the construcLion of the main civil works (US$12.2 mil-
lion) and (2) the supply of heavy earthmoving equipment for force account
work (US$4.9 million). Contracts for fertilizer requirements, the purchase of
land preparation equipment (US$1.4 million), rice mill machinery, equipment
and trucks (US$4.3 million), as weall as all other vehicles, garage and work-
shop equipment, and electricity, water and telephone networks (US$1.9 million)
would also be subject to ICB. Domestically manufactured goods would be
allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the level of the applicable import
duty, whichever is lower. MiscelLaneous items of equipment and furniture not
exceeding US$100,000 would be procured under local competitive bidding satis-
factory to the Bank. For contracts of less than US$20,000, for office furni-
ture and equipment (US$0.1 million), direct procurement on the basis of
several quotations would be acceptable. The irrigation and on-farm works
(US$5.5 million) and the project headquarLers, lodgings, offices, machine and
repair shops, as well as the rice mill buildings and storage facilities
(US$6.4 million) would be built by SEMRY on force account. Similar force
account works have been carried out efficiently in SEMRY I and the existing
construction team is able to carr out the works at a considerably lower cost
than c:ivil works contracLors.
Disbursements
42.       A uniform disbursement rate of 66 percent would be applied for all
categories of expenditure against which disbursements are made. Disburse-
ments of the IDA credit and Bank loan would cover expenditures for: civil
works (US$13.6 million); equipment, including farm machinery and inputs
(US$8.4 million); consultants, advisory and supervisory services not covered
by FAC (US$2.0 million); and short-term studies (US$0.6 million).  An amounL
of US$4.4 million would be unallocated. To the extent practicable, the
proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed before those of the Bank loan.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for force account works in the
case of which they would be made against certified statements of expenditures.
A condition of disbursements for the credit program would be that Government
and FONADER have entered into a financing agreement to finance the program
and that SEMRY and FONADER have entered into a Credit AdminisLration Agree-
ment for the execution of this project component (para. 3 (b) of Schedule
1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Markets and Prices
43.       At full development, the project would produce about 47,000 tons
of paddy annually, and some 26,000 tons of rice would be available for sale.
If all rice projects presently identified or under preparation proceed as
scheduled, domestic rice production would reach 90,000 tons by 1990, of
which SEMRY I and SEMRY II would produce 60 percent. Assuming that the rapid
increase in domestic rice consumption experienced in the 1970s continues,
domestic consumption in 1990 would about equal the production estimate. Only
part of SEMRY's production would be absorbed domestically, however. SEMRY is
better placed to serve northern Cameroon and neighboring export markets, such
as Chad and Nigeria, than Cameroon's southern markets where distance puts it
at a disadvantage. Exports of SEMRY rice to northern Nigeria have increased
recently, reaching close to 9,000 tons or about 60 percent of SEMRY's sales
in 1976. This upswing is expected to continue in the future.
44.       The SEMRY paddy producer price was increased to CFAF 30 per kilo-
gram in early 1977, while the private market price in Cameroon presently
ranges from CFAF 38 to CFAF 42 per kilogram. Although there is no evidence
so far that the lower SEMRY price has been a disincentive to farmers, Govern-
ment intends to raise it to CFAF 37.5 per kilogram starting with the 1977 wet
season harvest, to bring it more in line with the market. Assurances have
been obtained that SEMRY with the Government and the Bank will periodically
review the level of farmers' charges and paddy/rice prices (Section 3.08 (b)
of the draft Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
45.       The project would create three main sources of revenue:  farmers'
charges, milling margins, and incremental rice sales taxes. Taking all
project costs and discounting cost and revenue streams at 10 percent over
35 years, the present value of total revenues would cover about 60 percent
of the present value of total cost. SEMRY's cash flow from the proposed
project shows that, after allowing for replacement needs, it could meet its
debt service obligations toward Government. Since SEMRY's debt service pay-
ments would begin only in year 7 and would not cover the full amount of ex-
ternal borrowing, Government's net inflow from the project would be negative
until year 10, but be positive thereafter.
Benefits and Risks
46.       The project would make a substantial contribution to the develop-
ment of Cameroon's northern province, one of the poorest areas in the coun-
try. The project's direct benefits would be the increased rice production
which would raise net incomes of the 7,000 participating farm families more
than threefold to about US$745 per year, which is equivalent to a per capita
income of about US$135 per year. Although per capita income of participants
would thus be nearly double the regional average (US$70), it would still fall
short of present income in the cocoa and coffee producing areas (US$150).
The project's economic rate of return is 14 percent. In addition to the



- 16 -
direct benefits, the project would entail several non-quantifiable, indirect
benefits: (1) creation of good pasture land on the fringes of the reservoir
in the dry season; (ii) introduction of fishing possibilities in the reser-
voir, thus creating a supplementary source of protein; (iii) introduction
of a health program; and (iv) initiation of research on dry-land food crops
and establishment of an organization to promote research results among the
farmers.
47.       As the proposed project would follow the successful SEMRY I Proj-
ect and use essentially the same organizational structure and techniques,
the normal risks associated with projects of this kind would be minimized.
However, three important risks can be identified: a delay in the start
of irrigation works, a slower than expected Cameroonization, and a slower
development of exports. Sensitivilty tests show that in the worst case - a
delay of the project's start by one year, an expatriate presence for two
extra years, a reduction of exports to 30 percent of production, and a 10
percent reduction in yields - the rate of return would still be 8 percent.
On the other hand, if all goes as planned and exports rise to 80 percent of
production and yields increase by LO percent, the rate of return would be 17
percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between the United
Republic of Cameroon and the Bank and the Association and the Report of the
Committee provided in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
49.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
50.       Additional condition of credit effectiveness would be that all
conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the first FAC grant and
CCCE loan to the Government of Cameroon for the project have been fulfilled
(Section 6.01 (a) and (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       A condition of disbursement for the credit program would be that
Government and FONADER have entered into a financing agreement to finance
the program and that SEMRY and FONADER have entered into a credit adminis-
tration agreement for the execution of this project component (para. 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 5, 1978






-  18  -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                  Page 1 of 4 pages
CAMEROON            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                                  --------------- --------------------
---------------                                   CAMEROON**                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      47,.4                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     15o.4                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE            GHANA           IVORY COAST   MALAYSIA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     100.O*    210.0*    300.0*                450.0*      550.0*       440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             5.7        6.8        7.6                 8.6         5.4         10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        12.0       14.0       16.0                36.0        16.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         36.o       44.0       49.0                64.0        32.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)          43.5       42.1       40.4                49.8        46.1        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           28.0       23.9       22.0                24.4        23.3         12 9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..         1. t420 AL                  156.0          ..        40.8 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        35.9       41.0       41.0                41.5        41.0        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.3 /      2.7        2.7                 3.2         3.1          2.6 /a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  1.8        1.8        1.9b               2.6         3 4          2.6
URBAN                                    *        6.1        7.6                 4.5         8.7         26.9
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           t4.9 /b   20-5        28.5                28.4        28.0         26.9
AGE STRUCTURE. (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        40.0       43.0       42.7                46.9        42.5        44.7 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                        56.0       54.0       53-8                49.5        54.8        52:1 Ta
65 YEARS AND OVER                      4.0        3.0        3.5                 3.6         2.7          3.27-a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9        0.9                 1.0          0.8         0.9 /a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.2         ..                 1.4          0.89j       1.6 7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..        ..         ..                10.9           ..      222.2 /a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..        ..         ..                 2.0           ..         8.0 7
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          2800.0    3S00.0           ..             3300 0      2600.0      2900.0 /8
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          88.0       82.0          ..               S4:0/A      82.0        43.07lr
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)              ..        ..          ..                 .2           ...b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
t OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..        ..         ..                  ..           ..        28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..         56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..           ..       11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         ..        ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..         ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER EHYSICIAN            h01,6o0   -   0.0  26220.0                 12950.0    15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    jfl       o         0     2270.0 0             1020.0 z    2830.0 j
POPULA;ION PER HOSPITAL BED            5   0       8..                           70.0          1150.0    270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0       96.0      104.0                96.0       108.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               59.0       59.0       64.0                46 0        60 0        49 0/c
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..       23.0aj       ..                10:.0A      1a: 0/e     20:0o7
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ,.        ..         ..                  ..          ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        74.0      100.0      108.0                61.0        76.0        8s.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       3.0        9.0       11.0                11.0        11.0        34. o7a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              14.0<   14.0 AL    14.0,4                 15.0        13.0        13.0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                                                                                          -
(X OF SECONDARY)                      23.0       23.0       23.0                23.0         7.0         3.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   ..       12.0          *-               25.0        20.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        65.0/a d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        30.0ja
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       36.0       36.0                78.0          ..        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        6.0        6.0/                5.0        10.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           190.0      201.0         ..               338.0        95.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                       ..              ..                 0.4         0.2         4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 19-
ag2of4 paes
Lovu   tiec--v no~ted,  lata for 1961) refer to any yeaLr between 1959  and 1961, for 1.970.tetween 1966 end 1970, sOo  fOr ltst Recent Estimate between
aOPet ,tt, lots. are based on World Dank Atlas setbodolmay  (1974-76 basis).
Mo-oo    l  data are for' Juy/'Junae fiscal years .sd popu.lati'on data are those at corresponding fiscal old-yesars
Miqiotyl ins hero selected as the only non-OPWE of a size similer to Cemeroon, whtich endowed with aL diversified tropical production, reaches
l-t MIrer Capita target (L71$ 4,00.600).
CA,2ADc(   9       a  West Careroon only;         l   1962; Including ex-Scoath Ceasroons unider Britisb  edminitrarfen;    /c  Goverment hospitsk,
inclu~ding rural hospitakTi sod medical cancers;    Li  13 years for lEast Cameroon.
>7 It 1964-66;    4b  13 vears for lest Camroon.
POST PE9INT ESWE             /a 1972;       ai  190-          L&  1971;    LA  1969-71 sverasj.    le  13 years for East Cameroon.
ILAMd            17D      /a  Exclading unoemployed;    /b  Registered, not sall practicing in the country;                  Ac  1966-68.
ItChY COAST~                   Du0.t   h  to immigration population gm wtli rate ia higher than the rate of natural increease;    At  1965-70;                Ac  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 tad over to tote], labor force;              /d  Government Only, including midwtves;            It- 19b4-66.
MAlAYSIA      L(      /a7  I   West Malayaia;   /b  Yegistered applicants for work;            Le  1964-66;       /d  piped water inside only.
Dh, Auxutas 29. 1977
Len  Ares (thou JML                                                                              Pouainernria  son-pplem  divided by sweber af prscticiag
Tote1   T-1Ta   -rfaca eras  -rp,isia  land ares end Inland waters,e.  e                                 enj!'.d' fin'als greduaca1t  nurses,  '1rtrined'  or  cota ftaR te" nures., ed
Agric.  m-Mot recant estimate of agricultursl ares used tmaporerily or penme-                      auxiliary personnel with training er eoporteate.
meetly for crps, pascores, market & kitchen gardens or to lIea fellow,                         ":%!n rhsia  bed - population divided by amater af hespits) beds
sviliblIe public and private  asersI and spenislied heepitel end
wp pear c.nita  ~Vs), - GNP par capita estimates at corrent market prisa ,-rhabilitation cancers;  xecldoes marhing how" aend estsblialwsnts far
calculated by smea  comversion method as World Bank itles (1973-75 kesia);                       cuatedia1 and preventive cars.
i960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                      Per c-sita supl  cI esories f PI resuirinenisl - CompuSted tra  mr
eqiaeto  ie food su'pplie.savaial  in ceontey per sepina per dAy;
Populstion and vital  tstatstic:.                                                                   -viiahle supplies cempris. deesestic production, Imparts lase experts, end
Poculocion _mid-year millioni   As of icly. first:  if not available,  -v9ag                        changes In croci: cot aupplisa secieaimel feed, seeds, quaentitiea  eed
of cu  odyaenoticatos; 1160, 1910 and 1973 dsts.                                                 ic toad proosolig and leases in distribution; requiremets were estimated
by FAl) casad onphyai.lcgicsl seeds for sormel activity aNd health cesaid-
PoR,.lario   doanste -ee  auara ksa - Mid-ya-  popelazion per aquar  kitoastr                      acing avomctacomperraura, body weights, age  and sea distrihtsrona af
~100 be-t-ra  of total area.                                                                    population, aed allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Popubation density - eor square ho of satic. land - iomputed as abova for                        Per canilta anonle  fooen(rm    mdy    Pmcin aistet of peir tepica
ogoloulcacal land on1y.                                                 nor supply of food per day; one. suppy      fed i  dei                 "'-chs; eesIre
menta for all -cotries sacabtished by tSDA ReeMasic Researeb eseicee
Vital statistics                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~provide for a cicino   aiowace of 60 gr-n  of total proteim  pee day, ad
Cr-07 birch concrciucd  ooos  Aono-I live bietho pee thoaaad of                                     20 grco of acijoel and pul.e protein, of which if ge-  ahseld hs animal
mI-erpop,!-I-utt; ,en-yeor  rifhmoetit averages ending in 1660 sand 1970,                   protein; rhee atandardo are lower than those of 75 gras, oi total preteis
cod fto-   -st -oef  ending is 1973 for out recet estimate.                                      and 23 grac. of anmlprotein asa -vrage for the sworld, propesed by FA0
Crue dat  roe pr  houee,,     oar         ... Anca  deoLbo per rhaseand of mid-yea            in the Third World rood Survy.
population ; te-year arithoetic  -veegea ending in 196.0 and 197 0 and fiva-                   Par capita protein aupply irm animal and Pulsa - Protein supply of feod
year average eo,diog ic, 1975 for moat re-et estimate.                                           derived fron  -niale and pub.es in grons Per day.
Intact nontulitr  rote  f/cOon)  A-1A a  deaths of infoots  cd-r on  y-o  of age                 loath rate  I/thou) aces I-4 - Annual dearho Pee ehoceend in a.ge-eop 1-4
perhootuod 1-Ly  birthe.                                                                         years, to childre   n fs  his oge gr-pe; ouSgiseted as an indiester of
Ufs c%.otorcan     o  r bith fvro)  A- Aerge cnhe of ycara of life ramiini,g at                    melnotri ti_n.
birth; ucatlo tie-y-sr aversese ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1975 fcr develop-
ing cootioEd-ction
Gro-   ordciccr-vrg caonker of live daoihters a                             11 il Isear           Adjusted erlntratio  - primary school - Enrotlant oi all ages as per-
ilv her carnal reprodoot- portud if ash  coperiences pr.eset sge-spe-fic                         centage of pidooyacul-    popuILaion; includes child-t  seed 6-li yeses
fertlifty rote,; osoolly fire-year avocog-encding In 1960. 1970 and 1975                         hut adjooted for different lengthe of primary odue..eise; far countries with
bo o- cyn  c-otrioc.                                                                             u-bvra-1 educa tion,  -o1oltsen  may ea.cd 100% atince  oma pupils are balm
rojoto   rouch rt  11      oa  - Coopound sosual grathb rates of aid--year                   or shov  the ofttil1 school sge.
popoltotbo  for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 19;0-75.                                                  Adjusted enrollmsent rati               - osodr  sho      osputsd as shove ; secondary
poouiotcioScrot-t atb     ()    uba  - Cospo,ted like grmth rats of total                           education rqieat l,.ot four ye-  of approved pritar-               mtriin
popolatiooL dilfoccot  tefinitioo of urban areas nay off.ct cnparabilLty of                      ptvvidoa gener. -1 c..ati-Ia or t-ah-r craintg instructions for pupils
dora ooong voao,crtct.                                                   o~~~~~~~f 12 to 17 year  of oge; correspondence corses are generally secluded.
Crbo   opuiojofcol-Rtooorotototal population; differet                                            Years of schooling or-ided (first snd aecond levels) - Tista  yesn  of
deflicicioo  fi -rh   areas may affect conparahility of dat.a mong count ries.                    schooliog; at asc-dary level, voctional ins-tructiona may be partially er
conplecelv e..lIded,
Ag  rur_oc--__<c_'vCc   - Childre  (f-lu   .r),wrking-ago (i5-64 years).                       Vc-ti-ca  e-rIimont  I ut  -erodor,y  - Vocationa   isseittosens Icloda
ucd octired (6i <oar  ucd our sporc-stage  of nid-,oar population.                                rcoac,lodutrial or other pr.ger-  which operato  tndependastly or a
Ac   -cr   Icc  si-iR.ciri-   popola.t Io  under 15 sod i5 -d ove  to chose                      Oearops-vt  of aecondor  bistftctir.-
o    cc1) ohbro,ch c4.                                                                     cilitror-r race  Mt)- -treat aLdults -canOe eo tred and writs) ac Pr-
fccc - _d-ot -_toco:  ratio, - fatLy of pupoictior ond-r IS ud 65 and Ove  t0                        e.tetae ofccloocpplto gd IS ysra end ovae.
cOo I obor for-  ido age g-,p of 15-it  ca-..
ovoilovuc       _atoot    -r trolcv.to)- C-1-i-atbve  nohcfsc-p-o-                                AOosfec-
f hirhb-cooo  device  coder  -cpioc, of -ati-I family plancing progr-                           persona Per roon (orhan) - Averoge enber of parsons Per reom  in occupied
cost i-cptio.-                                                                                   c-0-0ti-1 dwellings in orhaoaras  dwellings aniuso-peeen-t
Ounily   lcu       -cers (, of -ori.d   -!aoo  - Porcstagoo of  -arcld   -nn of                     scuoaaad on-opiad pores.
olild-heaiogag  (15-44 yearn) oho  -o  birth---crv  device  to oil married                      foosotod dtcellinos  ich-o  pined water (1) - Occupied convetional d.s1liags
caociosaeu;sgroup.                                                                           in orhan and rocal arean  without inaide or outoids piped water facilities
A_O perv o  of oI  occupied dwellings.
cool 70000 t                                                           soceas to electricIty  (7, o~~~t.f all dwlig; -Convetios-  dwellings with
T. al labor focco_thv-o_ad) - Ecstumically active pofrvo, including ansd                            ol1-tricity to living q-tors us percent or  -tota  d"ali,egs in urban sod
coo'n   aolvdctetloighcnie    tdco   er;dfntosrclacs
Lu'rlc   c     icctearecc onp-rblo.                                                         ora-  dwellings conneted ~o electricicy C   - tonpused as above for crol
Lohbor force toa cuir   (7,) - ,igri-Iucrol  labor frce (iv~ Oemiog, foretry,                       dwellings only.
hucc;Lsg sod fisbiug) asp-teotge of coral labor torn...
Icem  o~lod  L oi flabor fore;-_.   fnoployed ar  usually defined se persona eho                  Conauption
or   ble and willing to rakea job,  tt of a Job on a given day, reasinad out                 Radia rece.iver  (per tho  p-y   - All types of receivers far radio broadcats
ulajb,oaf seking worko   a.poclitid mini.,tperiod.not  -eediog one                            to ganera1 public per thocc-d uf population; socindes aslitansd  eceivers
w-k; nay not he conPar_ble betwe  cosatries duo to different defiititt,so                         tn n-tnin   and he yeses when registration of reds a sets wee in affect;
of o-emplovd urd surce of data, e.g., employment offire  -ncia   aple                             data for recnt yerbayoth   -~p-rai   sinc  east coutries sbolished
acrocyc, coapoisoro ontaopluvmcc C tcsorance.                            ~~~licensiLng.
Psassenger tar   cRctK_hoc _o). - Passenger corn mnprte astor cars eseaing
iercoe discrihootos - ferce-tge of privat  loos   (both in cask and kind)                           Iesa than night p-r-e; occ1odes  sb,Ula.c... hearses aad military
reoi-od ho  5red 01, rtch-a  2(011, pooes  OlCi, and poorest 40% of hous-                         -ehiclec.
holda.                                                                                          iecclcrobu/ype   cp  - Annuol conasuption of industrial, rril
pubic  sA   olv to1-otri-it, Ic kblovat boors per neptts, generally
Iltio  ucf Iot  ac.o-,     ecoac    f loud osced by wtolhbiest 10%.                          booe.d co prd-colu  deto, wito:, -t o1a-ee for leensa in grids hut allo--
sod p--oryci ILo o -         acea,                                                                 tp to, iporos, -nd _apr-c of el-ct~iclty-
aeern    kc_-spr   Put -fo  capita arnul cons-tapiess in kilograms
Oraith  and hotrlrcuc                                                      e~~~~~~~~~        ~~stimatnd fen oscop-ed-ctio  plus not imports of newprint.
Poultonpe   h.c -du  -fpuuco   d-.,deo  bv oot- of practicing
phscasq-lifiv   (cn  a  cf     clocclaolerfolvl



ANNEX I
83)ONOMIC ~~~VEIDP!4ENT DATA ~~page 3 of' 4 pages
EAoutsin!  ilin  or U.S. dollars)
197 Act4uaPlte                                            1967..  1972 - 1974  -   1976-   1967    1974    1981
1967 1  -T774  -M5                           ~~19372.   1974    1976       1981      -        -        -
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS---                                                                                                             -
5-Year- Average at 1967.. 1969 Prices & Exchange Rates          Average Annual Growth RaLtes         As Percent of GIOY
Gross Domestic Product              799.4  1109.9    1195.5        1266.1    1363.8   1798.8           6.8    3.8    6.8    5.7         101.2   104.0    103,6
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)      9.5-  21.4   -  46.0    -  38.2   -  41.2  -  62.9                   .       .       .      .       -  1.2  -  4.0   -  3,6
Gross Domestic Income               789.9  1088.5    1149.5        1237.9    1322.6   1759             66      28    7.3    5.6         100.0o   100.0    100.0o
Import (incl. N'S)                  234.0   325.0       344.5       364.3      387.4    516.6          6.8    3.0    6.0    5.9          29.6    30.0       29.8
Exports   "1 (import cpacity)   213.2   290.6           328.4        325.0      336.1    469.0         6.4    6.3    1.2    6.9          27.0    28.6       27,0
Resource Gap                         =08    7            T- 7T        37.        s>r       S          10.6  -46.2   78.5   -1.5         -sc.8
Consumption Excpenditures           682.1   951.2    1013.7        1084.0    1145.2   1445.6           6.9    3.2    6.3    4.8           86.4    88.2      83.3
Investment       (incl. stocks)   128.7   171.7         169.2       183.2      220.1    337.7          5.9  -  .1   14.0    8.9           16.3    14.7       19.4
Domestic Savinigs                   107.8   137.4       153.0       143.9      170.7    290.2          5.0    5.5    5.6   11.2           13.6    13.3       16.7
National Savings                     87.9   114.0       102.7       110.0      151.2    249.8          5.3  - 5.4   21.3   10.6           11.1      8.9      14.4
M4ERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                              As Percent of Total
Tncorts
Capital goods                      40.8    89.1       104.3       143.2      177.5    444.4         16.9    8.2   30.4   20.2           21.7    23.9       35.4
Tntersmediate goods (sl3.fuels)   87.3   133.6        198.3       254.3      297.6    533.7          8.9   21.8   22.5   12.4          46.4    45.5       42.5
F'uels and related materials        8.3    15.2        38.3        52.3       61.8    109.8         12.9   58.7   27.0   12.2            4.4      8.8       8.7
of which:  Petroleum              8.3    15.2        38.3        52.3       61.8    109.8         12.9   58.7   27.0   12.2           4.4      8.8        8.7
Consusmption goods                 51.6    64.9        95.0       112.7      128.9    169.3         12.2   21.0   16.5    5.6           27.4    21.8       13.5
Total Merch. Laports (oif)       TEW=     3=l~       =S9         3=         E3T T7T                10.0   20.0   23.6   13.6          1=       1-7        =-
Exports
Primsary products (eoml. fuels)   143.7   199.9       446.7       398.1      461.0    885.8          6.8   50.0    1.6   14.0           90.8    93.5       86.8
Fuels and related materials         -        -          -            -          -         -
of which:  Petroleum              -        -          -           -           -        -
Manufactured goods                 14.6    20.9        31..1        53.9       68.3    134.5         7.4   22.0   48.2   14.5            9'.2     6'.5     13.,2
Total Merch. Exports (fb)         1PI=    ~    P ~ 7P             7*S7U    -52973  -T0UDt            6.9   47.1    5.2   14.0         frmt3   rtPrn    -Tmu~
Tourism and Border- Tracie           .                   ..                      .         ..                 .      .
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1967- 69 -100
Export Price Index                 94.0   114.1       172.1       189.2      212.6    303.0          4.0   22.8   11.1    7.3
Import Price Index                 94.8   127.6       186.0       218.0      239.3    343.7          6.1   20.7   13.4    7.5
Terms of Trade Index               99.1    89.4        92.5        86.8       88.9      88.2        -2.1    1.7  - 2.0   - .2
Exports Volume Index               94.0   123.8       163.9       147.0      164.0    229.0          5.7   15.1      -      6.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates                 Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       27 2 .2 352.1       380.1       417.5      432.8    540.7          5.3    2.9    6.7    4.6          38.5    37.4       34.4
Industry and Mining               170.9   233.2       230.8       258.8      271.8    371.2         6.4   - .1    8.5    6.4           24.2    22.7       23.6
Service                           264.3   401.6      40.          460.D.5    488.1    658.3         8.7       .1    9.7    6.2         37.4    39.9       41.9
Total                           _707.4   96.9    1016.3          1136.8    1192.7   1570.2          6.9    1.5    8.3    5.6          10.      100       100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                             As Percent of GDP
(Central GoTvernment) (is CFAF billios)
Current Receipts                   31.9      56.6      68.4        79.6      103.8    201.1        12.2    9.9   23.2   14.1           16.4    16.4       17.0
Current Expenditures               32.1      46.6      60.9        71.6       93.9    165.9         7.7   14.3   24.2   12.1           16.5    14.6       14.0
Budgetary Savings-  .2                      10. 0       7.5        8.0         -9.9     35.2      152.7  -15.5   14.9   28.9          -  .        .         .
Other Public Sector Savings,        4.6       1.0      13.4        109        1.         98        3.    6.        .         .           .4      3.2       1.7
Public Sector Investment          13.5      27.5      43.4        44.2        49.9    124.7        15.3   25.6    7.2   20.1            6.9    10.4       10.6
CURRENT EKFENDITIJRE DETAILS                    Actual         Prelia.   Est.    Proj5.         DETATL ON                                AtS1974197llPondE
As % Total Current Expend.)               1967    1972        19 74     19 75    1976:        PUBLIC SECTOR           1/ir  Plan    % of Total.
Education                                14.4    17,1        16.9      17.1    17.4           INVESTMENT PROGRAM                    T19 71 / 72 - 19 75 /76)
Other Social Services                      .7    10.7         9.7      10.0    10.3           SociaLl Sectors                          247.6               26.6
Agriculture                               5.0      5.6        5.9       6.1      6.6          Agriculture                              167.5               18.0
Other Economic Services                  11.6      8.7       11.2      12.3    13.5           Industry and Mining                       14.0                1.5
Administration and Defense               59.5    45.3        42.6      41.8    40.3           Power                                     56.8                6.1
Other                                     8.8    12.6        13.7      12.7    12.1           Transport and communications             387.2               41.6
Total Current Expenditures (in                                                                Other                                     57.7                6.2
CFAP billion)                         32.1    46.6        60.9      71.6    93,            Total Expendituires                      9~30.8             100.0
SELECTED) INDICATORS                                 1960 -    1967-      1972 -   19 77-       FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1965      1971       1976    1981                                       2/
Average ICON                                                    T 2.2      a0       3.1             Public Sector Savings -351.8                             37.8
Import Elasticity                                     ,          .968       .789   1.010           Local Borrowing                       55.8                6.0
RMrginal Domestic Savings Rate                        ..         .023       .239    .289           Foreign Financing                    523.2               56,2
Marginal Rational Savings Rate                        .          .137       .151    .239           Total Financing                      930.8              100.0
IABOR FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (19 87- 69  Prices &   Xec. Rates)
OUTPUT PE  WORKER                          ___          % of' Total          1967 - 71          In U.S.Dollar        Pecnto verage               19 61- 71
67    171    1967         19 71     Growth Rate          1,967       1971        19 67      19 71      Growth Nate
3/
Agriculture                   22,200       31,700      18.5       19.7          9.3           4,585.6   4.186.1        118.9       107.7         - 2.6
Industry 31  4_               29,210      41,360       24.3       25.7          9.1           1.064.7   1,090.4         27.6       28.1             .6
Service-                       27,328      34,427      22.7       21.4           6.0          5,027.8   5,420.4         130.3      139.5            1.9
Government                     41,494      53,486      34.7       33.2           6.5          4,752.5   4,848.0         123.2      127.4             .
Total                 62~~~~~0,232    16-0,973    100.0   100o .0       T7.          3!,8 5 7.6   5,8 86. 2     100.0O      o- -0.0          .2
not applicable         - nil or negligible                I/ Estimated actual diabursements               41  Excluding government
nut available         -- lss than half the                2/Net of debt serice
smallest unit shown              3!Modern sector only



- 21 -
ANNhEX I
BALANCE OF pAYMENTS, EXTEFRNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                                   PagTEX4f 4 pages
-7amounts in millions of n.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                          Estinated         _                           Projected                                      Growth Bate
122a        19719        1975    17                                197 879                   1980         1981         1982         183          1977-1983
SU1MKARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (ncl. NFS)                       376.0        576.2        624.7        650.7         798.9          1,030.4      1,077.3      i,150.8      1,254.4      1,399.6      1,557.7         12.0
Departs tgsnl. NFS)                      422.0        514.8        703.1        792.0         925.5          1,161.5      1,192.0      1,340.6     1,385.1      1,6 39.0     1,783.7          n.6
Resouce Balance (X-M)                    -46.o         61.4        -73.4       -142.0        -126.6           -11.         -1t4.7       -8           -140.7       -239.4       -               8.9
Interest (net)                            -6.2~        -9.8        -11.3        -14.6         -25.0            -42.4        -49.5        -56.3        -67.4        -73.2        -85.9         25.8
Direct Investmnent Income                  -3.2       -15.5        -27.2        -30.2         -36.2            -39.9        -45.8        -52.7        -60.6        -69.7        -80.2         14.7
Workers' Resittance                        -30.4       -41.4       -34.2        -30.4         -31.2            -36.8I44                  -.           -48.7        -53.8        -59.2         11.4
Wourkers Transfers(net)                   -11.9         6.5         12.8         25.3          20.6             30.6         33.6         37.0         47           43.5         46.6         11.3
BalTance on Current Accounts                            1         -            -             -1               -5           -216.9           4        -277.        -1x.6      ,-40
private Direct Investment                   -7.5       15.2         24.5         34.5          37.9             43.8         71.0         77.5         93.0        100.0        105.0         19.5
Official Capital Grants                     11.2       13.9         19.7         30.1          27.4             22.4         22.4         22.4         22.4         30.0         30.0           .5
Public MiLT1 Loans
Disbursements                            69.3        50.3         73.0        138.9         211.1            236.3        234.6        317.1        249.4        385.2        389.8         13.6
-Repayments    -                          -7.1       -11.8        -14.3        -20.5         -28.3            -44.2        -62.2        -73.8        -79.3        -97.4      -105.6          26.2
Net Disbursements                           62.2       3S.          58.7        n1. 1-                          T1          1T24         233          170.1      .7             284.2         10.5
Other MALT Loans
Ddisbursements                           34.7         9.4         21.3         30.3
-ReEa=m6nt,                               -7.5        -8.0        -17.2        -13.2           ..               ..          .            .            ..
Net Disbursements                           27.2       77            4.1         17.1           ,.                          -                                Actul                       Estimated
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                -19.3      -39.5        -21.2        -3.4          -54.1                                          197        Jr4  t 1975                        1983
Change in Net Reserves                      -.2         30.7       -52.5          4.8          -4.4         DlEBT AND DELT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed  238.4        274.3      374.6      529.3       2,073.2
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITHENIS
Official Grants & Grant-like                41.9        47.8        77.0                    *         -        Interest on Public Debt          9.6       11.1      15.1       19.3          98.3
Repayments on Public Debt    15.0         14.o       20.7       21.7         105.6
Public MULT Loans                                                                                              Total Public Debt Service       24.6      25.1       35.8       41.0         193.9
IBRD                                     25.7        34.1          1.0        34.3            .             Other Debt Service (net)         ..         ..
IDA                                      24,0         -           21.2        25.0            ..            Total Debt Service (net)          ..        ..
Other Multilateral                       16.3         -           10.8        30.8            ..          Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governments                               82.5       44.8         99.7        29.4
Suppliers                                   *4          .9         7.1         7.6            ..             Public Debt Service              4.6        4.i       5.4        5.9         12.4
Financial Institutions                      -        64.6         27.8        87.3            ..            Total Debt Service                 ..        ..
Bonds                                                 -             -          -                            TDS+Direct Inves,t. Inc.           ..        ..
0Pblic Loans n.e.i.                        -          -             -         20,0
Total Pablic MAlT Loans                 1Tg9          1443        9            234.4            ..          Average Terms of Pblic Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on  WeC. 31,76                          Tnt. as % Prior Year DO&D        4.9        4.7       5.5        5.2          4.9
EXTERNAL DEBT                                    Disbursed Only                 percent                          Amort. as % Prior Yeer DO&D    7.6          5.9        7.5        5.8          5.9
World Bank                                           57.5                     10.9
IDA                                                  67.8                     12.8                          TBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed        23.1       28.7       49.7       57.5        265.0
Other Iultilateral                                    39.6                      7.5                           "  as % Public Debt 0&D           9.7       10.4       13.3       10.9         12.8
Governments                                          190.7                    36.0 To  as % Public Debt Service    5.6                                     8.5       lo.4       11.4         11.7
qunnliers                                            16.4                      3.1
Financial Institutions                               443.9                    27.9                           IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed         30.1       34.1       49.9      67.8         183.6
Bonds                                                                           -                             TI as % Public Debt o0D          12.6       12.4      13.3       12.8           8.9
Public Debts n.e.i                                     9.5                     1.8                           lTas % Public Debt Service          .7        1.2         .8        1.1          1.0
Total Public M&IT Debt
Other MALT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                     e  staff estimate
not available                                                      -  nil or negligible
.,  not available separately                                           --  less than half the
but included in total                                                  smallest unit shown



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of November 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                            Amount
Credit                                                      (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower   Purpose               Bank         IDA /1  Undisbursed
Five Credits and Seven Loans have been fully       55.7         63.2       -
disbursed
161-CM   1969   Cameroon   Education                           11.7 /2   0.1
320-CM   1972   Cameroon   Education II                         9.0      5.0
935-CM   1973   Cameroon   Roads II               24.0                  16.3
983-CM   1974   Cameroon   Livestock              11.6                   6.5
1039-CM   1974   Cameroon   Cocoa                   6.5                   3.5
574-CM   1975   HEVECAM    Niete Rubber Project                16.0     11.4
575-CM   1975   Cameroon   DFC - Small-Scale
Enterprises                      3.0       3.0
S4-CM   1976   REGIFERCAM Railways                2.3                   1.6
1245T-CM  1976   Cameroon   Education III          17.0                  16.8
657-CM   1976   Cameroon   Second Douala Port                  10.0      5.6
1321-CM   1976   Cameroon   Second Douala Port   15.0                    15.0
672-CM   1977   Cameroon   Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Devt.                        2.0       2.0
673-CM   1977   Cameroon   Technical Assistance                 4.5      4.5
723-CM   1977   Cameroon   Rural Devt. Fund                     7.0      7.0
1391T-CM  1977   Cameroon   Second SOCAPALM
Project              7.0                   7.0
1392-CM   1977   Cameroon   Second SOCAPALM
Project             18.0                  18.0
749-CM   1977   Cameroon   Feeder Roads                        6.9 /3   6.9
TOTAL                           157.1        133.3    130.2
of which has been repaid        1.7          0.1
TOTAL now outstanding           155.4        133.2
Amount sold                 0.2
of which has been repaid  -    0.2
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /1                    155.2        133.2
TOTAL undisbursed                84.7         45.5    130.2
/1 Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/3   Not yet effective.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of November 31, 1977)
Equity
311-CM   1975   BATA         Shoe Facitory         0.38
355-CM   1977   SAFACAM    Rubber Plantation    0.81
1.19
Less Sold       0.25
HeLd by IFC    0.94
Undisbursed      -
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1            First Education Project:  US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974); and US$1.2
million Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial
years, due to delays in both the construction and technical assistance pro-
grams. In 1975, a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to
cover cost increases due to currency realignments. Construction of all
buildings and delivery of virtually all furniture and equipment have been
completed, and project accounts are now being finalized. The project was
well-managed, particularly as project unit staff gained experience. A com-
pletion mission which visited Cameroon in February 1977 found that project
facilities are generally well adapted to local requirements. However, because
enrollments greatly exceed capacity aLt some project secondary schools, spe-
cialized classrooms and laboratories are not always used as such, thereby
reducing the impact of the project on diversifying secondary education.
Cr. No. 320                   Second Education Project:  US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project
is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to currency realign-
ments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since 1973, the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Government decided to finance the construction of one project school with
its own funds and another project school was transferred to the Third Educa-
tion Project (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935    Second Highway Project:  US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978; and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was completed
satisfactorily in December 1976 and of the Figuil-Mora road (163 km) in July
1977. Construction of the Douala-Pont du NKam road (161 km) is slow and its
completion is delayed by at least one year to July 1978. After a slow execu-
tion of the First Phase of the maintenance study, consultants started the
Second Phase in November 1977. The Government has hired technical assistance
for the Ministries of Equipment and Agriculture. The project has considerably
suffered from the 1973-1974 worldwide inflation, which nearly doubled its
total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed to postpone construction of
the Garoua-Figuil road (95 km). A Supplementary Credit of US$15.0 million was
approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed on the Government
by the project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                   Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although
some project components are behind schedule. The situation at two project
ranches continues to be very good and activities in the third, which started
in December 1976, are progressing well. Due to the bankruptcy of the first
contractor, a new contract has been negotiated with the second lowest eval-
uated bidder for the construction of two slaughterhouses (in Yaounde and
Douala).  Construction work started at end-August 1977.   Fifty-five credits
have been disbursed out of a total of 75 expected to be paid out during 1977.
The first tsetse-fly eradication campaign which started in November 1976, is
now completed having freed about 1,000 kmn of pastureland. The construction
of the first 20 km2 anti-tsetse barrier is scheduled to start by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1038                  Second Railway Project:  US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978.
Procurement of main project items has been satisfactory. The track
material was delivered and laid by December 1975, and delivery of rolling



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
stock was completed in 1976. Technical problems have been encountered with
the foundations of one of the piers for the Japoma bridge. Additional sup-
porting measures have been implemented and permanent monitoring of the
behavior of the bridge and its piers is being prepared, as well as proposals
for permanently monitoring the behavior of the bridge and its piers are being
prepared. The works will be completed in Spring 1978. Due to the fluctuation
in exchange rates during project implementation, additional financing was
required to cover the cost of the equipment already ordered and of the recon-
struction of the Japoma bridge. Consequently, the railway has obtained a
supplier's credit of US$820,000 to supplement Bank financing for the rolling
stock, and the foreign exchange cost of the consulting services (US$925,000)
originally included in this Second Railway Project has been transferred to the
Third Railway Project financed under Loan No. S-4. Due to the world slump
in the timber market and substantial increases in staff costs in 1974/75,
REGIFERCAM experienced difficulty in attaining the financial covenants
included in the Loan Agreement. The Second Railway Project financial targets
were retained for the Third Railway Project and the Government and REGIFERCAM
are carrying out the necessary measures to achieve the target set for 1978/79.
Tariff increases averaging 34 percent have been implemented since June 1976,
and measures to increase productivity and control operating costs are being
taken. REGIFERCAM is thus expected to achieve the agreed financial targets.
Ln. No. 1039                 Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Government, in recognition of the declining trend in cocoa
production, has instituted measures designed to improve incentives to cocoa
farmers. The most important of these are the provision of free fungicide for
black pod control, the consolidation of all farmers' groups in the department
comprising the project area, and the proposal to increase the producer price
for export quality cocoa from CFAF 150/kg to CFAF 180/kg for the 1977/78
season. The project itself shows a marked improvement from the last super-
vision. Project management has taken steps to strengthen the extension ser-
vice and to better focus its action. A manager to coordinate and control
the activities of all sectors will need to be appointed soon to oversee this
re-orientation of project work. The major problem remaining is that relating
to the maintenance of rehabilitated rural roads and a Government decision is
expected to be taken shortly.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Cr. No. 574                  Niete Rubber Estate Project:  US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber estate has been steady; plant-
ing is in fact slightly behind schedule; some 790 ha should be planted by end
1977 compared with 1,050 assessed at appraisal, and construction work is ahead
of schedule. More labor has been available and hired locally than anticipated
and is sufficient up to now; recruitment from other areas may become necessary
soon. Collection of rubber seed is being improved, as unusually heavy rains
have hampered seed production. The terms of reference for the regional master
plan studies have been drawn up.
Cr. No. 575                  Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project;
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1976; First
Postponement: February 2, 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Credit was declared effective on July 30, 1976. After consider-
able delay, two expatriate advisors for the Banque Camerounaise de Developpe-
ment (BCD) have assumed positions in BCD and commitment of the first sub-
projects has begun. The delivery of technical assistance to entrepreneurs
by the three agencies financed by UNDP under the Project is progressing and
interagency coordination has improved. The Government has requested that
the Bank Group and CCCE (the other co-financier) continue financing techni-
cal assistance once UNDP financing terminates.
Ln. No. 1245-T               Third Education Project:  US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4, 1976); Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from October 4 to
December 31, 1976, to allow for the signing of (a) the decree expanding the
responsibilities of the Project Unit, and (b) the contract between the
Government and the consulting architects. Satisfactory progress is being made
on the architectural design work, and agreement has been reached on the
preliminary drawings for the project schools. Following the Government's
decision subsequent to project appraisal to change the location of the two
upper secondary agricultural schools, a new site in Dschang has been
selected. Construction is expected to proceed on schedule.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. S-4                     DouaLa Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The first phase study 'feasibility study) has been carried out by
Consultants. The final engineeriLng study is expected to start in end-1977
and to be completed by September 1978. The Consulting service transferred
from the Second Railway Project are being carried out but additional Tech-
nical Assistance will be still needed to implement the recommendations of
the Consultants and would be financed partly by another donor and partly
under a possible Fourth Bank Pro ject.
Ln. No. 1321                    Second Douala Port Project:  US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                     Loan of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; (Original Effectiveness Date:
January 24. 1977); Closing Date: June 30, 1981
and US$10.0 million Credit of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: June 15, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: January 24, 1977); Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction started inI December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well, although there has been a delay in construction of the container berth
due to the need to undertake conf-irmatory sub soil investigations. A resump-
tion of scheduled progress is expected during 1978. Proposals to incorporate
facilities at the container berth to handle increasing volumes of roll on roll
off traffic have been circulated by the Port Authority to donors and these
will be considered early in 1978.
Cr. 672                         Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:
US$2.0 million Credit of February 28, 1977;
Effec:tiveness Date: August 29, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The 1977 season confirms the seriousness of the technical difficul-
ties that must be solved before f ull-scale development of the plain can take
place. While progress is being made in testing acceptable levels of mechani-
zation, the resolution of agronomic problems, recently compounded by climatic
fluctuations, has lagged.  The agronomic program has been redesigned for 1978.
Ln. No. 1392                    Secornd Socapalm Project:  US$18.0 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391-T                  Third Window Loan:  US$7.0 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loans were declared effective on November 23, 1977 - the due
date.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Cr. 673                       Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million
Credit of June 15, 1977; Projected Effective-
ness Date: November 14, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: September 13, 1977); Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from September 13 to
November 14, 1977 to allow for the recruitment of a senior economist by the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Credit was declared effective on that date.
Progress in project coordination and in recruiting long-term advisory consul-
tants is coming about slowly but is now expected to take place more rapidly
in parallel with the recent presentation of a comprehensive action program by
government. Several project-related studies are under active consideration
for financing under the Project.
Cr. No. 723                   Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Projected Effective-
ness Date: January 31, 1978 (Original Effec-
tiveness date: December 2, 1977); Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Measures required for Credit effectiveness and for project imple-
mentation are being taken.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
CAMEROON
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 3 years.
(b) The project was identified during supervision of SEMRY I. A feasibil-
ity study was prepared by Consultants in 1974, updated in 1976, and
supplemented by a rice markett study carried out in 1975 by Consultants
and the Government.
(c) Departure appraisal mission: May 21, 1977.
(d) Negotiations completed: November 4, 1977.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: End March 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank has supervised. the ICB procedures for the main civil
works contract and for purchases of essential equipment for force account
work, both of which will be financed retroactively by the Bank.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The following agreements would be reached during negotiations that:
(a)  Government would improve the road between Guirvidig and
Bogo before June 1980 (Section 4.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement);
(b) SEMRY would submit the terms of reference for consultant
services for the supervision of civil works construction
under contract as well as on force account to the Bank
for approval prior to signing of the consultants' con-
tract (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement);
(c) SEMRY would formulate a detailed health program for the
project area and proposals for its implementation would
be formulated not later than July 1, 1978 (see para. 35);
(d) SEI4RY would fill the position of director general and
director of SETRY II by persons with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank; the position of deputy director general would be



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
filled after consultation with the Bank; and SEMRY
would annually consult with Government and the Bank on
Cameroonization (see para. 37);
(e) SEMRY would appoint a training consultant with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, not later than September 30, 1978 (see
para. 37);
(f) Government and the Bank would periodically review the
level of farmers' charges and paddy/rice prices (see
para. 44).
2.        A condition of effectiveness of the loan/credit would be that all
conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the first FAC grant and CCCE
laon to the Government of Cameroon for the project have been fulfilled (see
para. 38).
3.        A condition of disbursement for the credit program would be that
Government and FONADER have entered into a financing agreement to finance
the program and that SEMRY and FONADER have entered into a credit adminis-
tration agreement for the execution of this project component (para. 42).






CAM EROOdW!    {-
Cull Of
GUINEA               I
AfAN)rc            W-
OCEANL
CAM~~~,ROQflI 
J        Nkombe  ~~41i"
~~  Asehong  BAFOUSSAMU T                                  ~W
-?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Nk-b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MDi-g
-  9               -                         -                   Molnuedno~~~~~~~bct
p ATL ANT/C                                                                                           t<AKtrW..
CC&IN          EQUAtV~~~~B il IlA~                        ~






. _ j~oT.K L
0,==,                                                                                                                                               C '
if                                                                               i f,                ' X
SECOND SEMRY RICE PROJECT *xg  . &iE > ,/iL eu
5<7lLn/                                                    (  Xrcposed reserw-r                                           - ee-
PROJECT STrGE III                                                                                                                         ;   
3|  || |i|| - 4;
Dik.
4/Tta    7                  000 hoo              /2/M-'O-O
3A Eoqtorobleucreas                                 KIOE-K                                         \ 141dlm/                                  --5*| r 
_.--_-Internotonol Soo,oor,e oo*                                                                                                                          ,  
L                                                                UIE                                              \      t,, Doresou   1  -



