CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1512 CM
Loan Agreement
(Second SENRY Rice Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 1, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1512 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association)
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Association (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agree-
ment), whereby the Association is agreeing to provide such assis-
tance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to fourteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($14,500,000);
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of said Project by
making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing and of the other considerations set forth in the Pream-
ble to the Development Credit Agreement, to make the Loan avail-
able to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
hereinafter, but only on condition that the Soci6t6 d'Expan-
sion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture de Yagoua (hereinafter
called SEMRY) agree to undertake the obligations set forth in
a project agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SEMRY;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):


﻿-2-
(a) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
"ll. The term Project means the project or program for
which the Loan is granted, as described in the Development
Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in the Loan Agree-
ment) and through incorporation of such description by
reference in the Loan Agreement, and as the description
thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower, the Bank and the Association."
(b) Paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:
"(c) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any
other obligation under the Loan Agreement or the Development
Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in the Loan Agree-
ment)."
(c) Paragraph (e) of Section 7.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:
"(e) A default shall occur in the performance of any
other obligation on the part of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement (as such term
is defined in the Loan Agreement), and such default shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank or the Association to the
Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Development Credit Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and
all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) "Credit" means the credit provided for in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fourteen million five hundred thousand dollars ($14,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower,
the Bank and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procuremeat of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Sections of Articles III and IV of the
Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2 and 3 thereto, as
such Sections and Schedules may be amended from time to time,
are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein; provided,
however, that for the purposes of this Agreement: (i) all ref er-
ences to the Association in any such Section and in said Schedule
3 shall be deemed to be references to the Bank; (ii) all ref er-
ences to the Development Credit Agreement in any such Section
shall be deemed to be references to this Agreement; (iii) all
references to the Credit in any such Section and in said Schedule
3 shall be deemed to be references to the Loan; and (iv) all
references to the Credit Account in said Schedule 3 shall be
deemed to be references to the Loan Account.
Section 3.02. As long as any part of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn or outstanding, all action taken, including approvals
given, by the Association pursuant to the Sections and Schedules
of the Development Credit Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, or Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on
behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and all information
furnished by the Borrower to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of such Sections and Schedules shall be deemed to be
furnished to both the Association and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined) as security for any exter-
nal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realiza-
tion or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, nd the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision


﻿-5-
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that any event specified
in Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
the Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and SEMRY; and
(b) any event referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date June 1, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement, including
those incorporated therein by reference to the Development Credit
Agreement, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
the termination of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaoundf
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINEP                             8268 KN
Yaound&


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Benott Bindzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1983,
through   September 15, 1997                   485,000
On March 15, 1998                                   435,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-9-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.10%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.25%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                        4.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        5.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        6.70%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


