CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 763 CM
Project Agreement
(Second SEMRY Rice Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE D'EXPANSION ET DE MODERNISATION
DE LA RIZICULTURE DE YAGOUA
Dated February 1, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 763 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SOCIETE D'EXPANSION ET DE MODERNISATION DE LA RIZICULTURE DE
YAGOUA (hereinafter called SEMRY).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($14,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SEMRY
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter called the Bank), the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($14,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that SEMRY agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
(C) by a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SEMRY, part of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement and of the loan pro-
vided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to SEMRY
on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(D) Part E (iii) of the Project will be carried out jointly
by SEMRY and the Fonds National de DOveloppement Rural (herein-
after called FONADER) pursuant to arrangements hereinafter set
forth;
(E) the Association has previously entered into a project
agreement, dated April 26, 1972, with SEMRY (hereinafter called
the Prior Project Agreement) for the purpose of assisting SEMRY
in carrying out a prior rice development project; and
WHEREAS SEMRY, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the


﻿- 2 -
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by SEMRY or by any one or more
subsidiaries of SEMRY or by SEMRY and one or more of its subsidi-
aries;
(b)  "Cahier des charges" means the Cahier des charges
relatif a l'utilisation des parcelles defining the rights and
obligations of farmers cultivating the land of SEMRY, as set
forth in Annex II to the Borrower's Decree No. 71/DF/74, dated
February 24, 1971, and as such Cahier des charges may be amended
from time to time; and
(c)  "CFA francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean the currency
of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SEMRY shall carry out Parts A through E (ii)
and F and, jointly with FONADER, Part E (iii) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, economic, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to secure assistance in the super-
vision of the civil works to be carried out under the Project,
SEMRY shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,


﻿-3-
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
(b) In order to secure assistance in carrying out Parts D
(v) and (vi), E (i), and F (ii) and (iii) of the Project, SEMRY
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association; such consultants shall include a training specialist
responsible for preparing a detailed program to carry out Part D
(v) of the Project, to be employed not later than September 30,
1978.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. In order to secure assistance in carrying out
Part D (vi) of the Project, SEMRY shall enter into a contract with
the Borrower's Office National de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique providing for the supervision of the food crop research
programs to be carried out by SEMRY in each year until completion
of the Project. SEMRY shall furnish said contract to the Associa-
tion and annually consult with the Association on the proposed
research programs to be carried out pursuant thereto.
Section 2.05. (a) SEMRY shall carry out Part E of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of the Cahier des charges.
(b) In order to carry out, jointly with FONADER, Part E
(iii) of the Project, SEMRY shall:
(i) not later than June 30, 1978, enter into a credit
administration agreement with FONADER on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii) as agent of FONADER, provide agricultural inputs
on credit to SEMRY farmers in accordance with the
provisions of the Credit Administration Agreement.
Section 2.06. Not later than June 30, 1978, SEMRY shall pre-
pare, in-cooperation with the health services of the Borrower, and
furnish to the Association for its concurrence, a detailed program
for the carrying out of Part F of the Project and a plan for the


﻿-4-
execution of such program, and thereafter carry out said Part of
the Project in accordance with such program and plan.
Section 2.07. (a) SEMRY undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by SEMRY to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SEMRY
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) SEMRY shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) SEMRY shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provi-
sions of paragraph (d) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and SEMRY, SEMRY shall prepare and furnish to the Association


﻿-5-
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Association and SEMRY of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(d) SEMRY shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SEMRY and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.09. SEMRY shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SEMRY Financing Agreement and the Credit Administration
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SEMRY
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the SEMRY Financing
Agreement, the Credit Administration Agreement or any provision of
either of said Agreements.
Section 2.10. (a) SEMRY shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, under the SEMRY Financing Agreement and under the
Credit Administration Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b) SEMRY shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit and the Loan, or the performance by SEMRY of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, under the SEMRY Financing Agreement or
under the Credit Administration Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SEMRY
Section 3.01. (a) SEMRY shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of its
business and maintain its financial position in accordance with
appropriate agricultural, commercial, economic, financial and
administrative practices, and under an experienced and qualified
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿- 6 -
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SEMRY shall;
(i) operate and maintain its equipment, properties
and facilities as well as the irrigation facilities
made available to it by the Borrower and make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in
accordance with appropriate agricultural and
management practices;
(ii) during a period of not less than ten years from
the date of this Agreement, provide technical and
extension services to farmers in the Project Area
at a level satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii) ensure that the technical, financial and adminis-
trative qualifications and professional experience
of its general manager, deputy general manager, and
director in charge of the unit responsible for the
administration of the works included under Parts A
through E (ii) of the Project be at all times
adequate for the satisfactory discharge of these
tasks.
Section 3.02. SEMRY shall, for a period of ten years from
the date of this Agreement, annually exchange views with the
Borrower and the Association on the progress in the replacement of
expatriate SEMRY staff by Cameroonians.
Section 3.03. SEMRY shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
SEMRY shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property and assets except in the ordinary course of
business.
Section 3.05. SEMRY shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations, including the Project, and shall take all steps
necessary to acquire and to retain such land, interests in land
and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses,
consents, franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the execution and operation of the Project and the
conduct of its business.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.06. (a) Before SEMRY shall take any action to
establish or acquire any subsidiary, SEMRY shall first satisfy
the Association that such action would not affect materially
and adversely the operations and financial position of SEMRY.
(b) If SEMRY establishes or acquires any subsidiary, SEMRY
shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obliga-
tions of SEMRY under this Agreement to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.07. Before SEMRY shall undertake or execute, for
its own account or for the account of any third party or parties,
any new major project or development other than the Project, it
shall first satisfy the Association that the carrying out of such
project or development would not interfere with its obligations
under this Agreement. For the purpose of this Section, the term
"major project or development" means any project or development
involving an investment of more than the equivalent of one
million dollars ($1,000,000) or such other amount as shall be
agreed from time to time between the Association and SEMRY.
Section 3.08. (a) To ensure the recovery of the investment
and maintenance costs of the works carried out under Parts B
and E (ii) of the Project, of not less than 50% of the maintenance
costs of the works carried out under Part A of the Project and of
SEMRY's operating costs for services provided to SEMRY farmers,
SEMRY shall collect charges from such farmers in accordance with
the provisions of the Cahier des charges.
(b) SEMRY shall annually exchange views with the Borrower
and the Association regarding the level of the charges referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section as well as the prices for
paddy purchases from farmers and rice sales by SEIMRY.
Section 3.09. SEMRY shall not take any action aiming at an
amendment, suspension, abrogation, termination or waiver of the
Cahier des charges without the prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SEMRY shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,


﻿-8-
including, without limitation, separate accounts for the Project
and for the operation of the agricultural developments and facili-
ties established under the prior project carried out pursuant to
the Prior Project Agreement.
(b) SEMRY shall, until one year after the Closing Date,
retain all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account and the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures, and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to inspect such records.
Section 4.02. SEMRY shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement, showing whether the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan made available to SEMRY and withdrawn from the Credit Account
and the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of SEMRY and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SEMRY shall at all times maintain its liquid assets at a
level equivalent to its cash expenditures during the three preced-
ing months or three hundred million CFA francs (CFAF 300,000,000),
whichever is more, or such other level as shall be established
from time to time by agreement between the Association and SEMRY.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "liquid
assets" means cash and bank balances, assets readily convertible
into cash and undrawn bank overdraft facilities, and the term
"cash expenditures" means all cash expenditures, including,


﻿-9-
without limitation, payments of principal, interest and other
charges due on account of debt, but excluding expenditures for the
purchase or renewal of fixed assets (such as vehicles and other
equipment and expenditures for new developments).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SEMRY thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
or the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, whichever shall be later; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement terminate in accordance with their terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
shall promptly notify SEMRY of this event.
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to the Prior
Project Agreement
Section 6.01. The Prior Project Agreement is amended as
follows:
(a) Sections 3.02 (a), 3.03 and 4.02 of the Prior Project
Agreement are deleted and Sections 3.01 (a), 3.07 and 4.02,
respectively, of this Agreement are substituted therefor.
(b) Sections 3.04 and 4.03 of the Prior Project Agreement
are deleted.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing,
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SEMRY:
Socift6 d'Expansion et de Modernisation
de la Riziculture de Yagoua
B.P. 46
Yagoua
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
SEMRY
Yagoua
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SEMRY may be taken or executed by the


﻿- 11 -
Directeur G6n6ral of SEMRY or such other person or persons as
the Directeur G6n6ral of SEMRY shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SEMRY shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of any person who will, on behalf of SEMRY, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by SEMRY pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE D'EXPANSION ET DE MODERNISATION
DE LA RIZICULTURE DE YAGOUA
By Is/ Benoit Bindzi
Authorized Representative


