                                              CONFORMED COPY




                                        CREDIT NUMBER 763 CM




Development Credit Agreement
          (Second SEMRY Rice Project)



                    between


         UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON


                     and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




           Dated February 1, 1978
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 763 CM


                  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;

     (B)  the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement),
the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to fourteen million five hundred
thousand dollars ($14,500,000);

     (C)   the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;

      (D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse
Centrale de Coopfration Economique, an agency of the Republic
of France (hereinafter called Caisse Centrale), a loan (here-
inafter called the Caisse Centrale Loan) in an amount of forty
million French francs (FF40,000,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement)   to be
entered into between the Borrower and Caisse Centrale;

     (E)  the Borrower further intends to contract from the
Republic of France, acting through the Fonds d'Aide et de
Coopfration (FAC), annual grants (hereinafter called the FAC
Grants) in an aggregate amount of nineteen million five hundred
thousand French francs (FF19,500,000) to assist in financing
technical assistance and engineering services for the Project,
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (herein-
after called the FAC Agreements) to be entered into between the
Republic of France and the Borrower, the first such FAC Grant,
                               -2-


provided under the first  of these FAC Agreements dated November
28, 1977 (hereinafter called the First FAC Agreement), covering
the period until June 30, 1978;

     (F)  Parts A through E (ii) and F of the Project will be
carried out by the Soci&tf d'Expansion et de Modernisation de
la Riziculture de Yagoua (hereinafter called SEMRY) and Part E
(iii) of the Project will be carried out jointly by SEMRY and the
Fonds National de Dfveloppement Rural (hereinafter called
FONADER), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SEMRY and FONADER
the proceeds of the Credit and of the loan made under the Loan
Agreement as provided hereinafter and in the Loan Agreement,
respectively, as well as the proceeds of the Caisse Centrale Loan
and of the FAC Grants;

     (G) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
April 26, 1972, the Association has made available to the Bor-
rower a development credit (No. 302 CM) for the purpose of
assisting SEMRY in carrying out a prior rice development project;
and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SEMRY;

     NOW THEREFORE the   parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, it being understood that the Project Agreement (as defined
hereinafter) is deemed to be an agreement supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of paragraph 3 of
Section 2.01 of said General Conditions, and subject to the
following modifications of said General Conditions (said General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
                                -3-


Association, as so modified,   being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):

     (a) Paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:

         "9. The term Project means the project or program
    for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Develop-
    ment Credit Agreement and as the description thereof may be
    amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower,
    the Association and the Bank."

     (b) Paragraph (b) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:

          "(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any
     other obligation under the Development Credit Agreement or
     the Loan Agreement (as such term is defined in the Develop-
     ment Credit Agreement)."

     (,) Paragraph (c) of Section 7.01 is     deleted   and the   fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:

          "(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any
     other obligation on the part of the Borrower under the
     Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement (as
     such term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement),
     and such default shall continue for a period of sixty days
     after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank or
     the Association to the Borrower."

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SEMRY of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

      (b) "SEMRY Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SEMRY pursuant to Section
                                        -4-


3.01 (b) of this Agreement and Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement,
                                                              term
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
includes all schedules to the SEMRY Financing Agreement;

                                                        even date
     (c)  "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank  for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
                                                               and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,    as made
                                                            to the
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;

        (d)   "Loan"   means   the   loan provided   for in   the Loan Agree-
ment;

     (e)  "Loan Account" means the account defined in paragraph 8
of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions referred to in Section
1.01 of the Loan Agreement;

     (f)   "SEMRY" means the Socift6 d'Expansion et de Modernisa-
tion de la Riziculture de Yagoua, a Socigtf de D&veloppement
of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to the Bor-
rower's Law No. 68/LF/9, dated June 11, 1968, Decree No.
68/DF/275,    dated July 15, 1968, Decree No.    71/DF/74, dated
February 24, 1971, and the Statuts of SEMRY, as such Law and
Decrees may be amended from time to time;

      (g) "Statuts" means the Statuts of SEMRY as approved by
the Borrower's Decree No. 71/DF/74, dated February 24, 1971,
including the amendments approved by the Borrower's Decrees No.
77/300, dated August 16, 1977, and No. 77/394, dated October 3,
1977, and as such Statuts may be further amended from time to
time;

     (h) "FONADER" means the Fonds National de Dfveloppement
Rural of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24, dated May 29, 1973, as amended by
the Borrower's Law No. 77/05, dated July 13, 1977, and Decree No.
73/496, dated August 28, 1973, as such Ordinance, Law and Decree
may be amended from time to time;

       (i)  "FONADER Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
 be entered into between the Borrower and FONADER pursuant to
 Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement and Section 3.01 of the Loan
 Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
 term includes all   schedules to the FONADER Financing Agreement;
                                 -5-


     (j)  "Credit Administration Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between SEMRY and FONADER pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement
and Section 2.05 (b)   (i) of the Project Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time;

     (k)  "Protocole d'Accord" means the Protocole d'Accord
concernant les am6nagements hydrauliques sur le Logone between
the Borrower and the Republic of Chad signed on August 20, 1970,
as the same may be amended from time to time; and

      (1) "Project Area" means the area referred to in the intro-
duction to the Project description in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.

                            ARTICLE II

                            The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($14,500,000).

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.

     Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

       Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
                               ~6 -


of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of    the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1988, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.

                           ARTICLE III

                    Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its   other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SEMRY to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Projdct Agreement, the SEMRY Financing
Agreement and the Credit Administration Agreement all the obLi-
gations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SEMRY to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

     (b)  The Borrower shall make available to SEMRY    the proceeds
of the Credit, except those allocated to Part E        (iii) of the
Project, under a financing agreement to be entered      into between
the Borrower and SEMRY on terms and conditions          which shall
have been approved by the Association.

     (c)  The Borrower shall make available to FONADER the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated to Part E (iii) of the Project under
a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
FONADER on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association.   Such terms and conditions shall, inter alia,
                              -7-


include that such proceeds shall be used for providing inputs to
farmers under Part E (iii) of the Project through SEMRY as agent
of FONADER, in accordance with the provisions of the Credit
Administration Agreement.

     (d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
SEMRY and FONADER Financing Agreements in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the SEMRY Financing Agreement or the FONADER
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.

     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FONADER to enter
into a credit administration agreement with SEMRY, not later than
June 30, 1978, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, for the purpose of the joint execution of Part E
(iii) of the Project by FONADER and SEMRY.

     (b) The Borrower shall cause FONADER to duly perform all
its obligations under the Credit Administration Agreement, to
exercise its   rights thereunder in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, not to assign, amend,  suspend, terminate,
abrogate or waive the Credit Administration Agreement or any
provision thereof.

      (c) The Borrower shall cause FONADER: (i) at the request of
the Association, to exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of Part E (iii)   of the Project, the per-
formance of FONADER's obligations under the FONADER Financing
Agreement and under the Credit Administration Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and (ii)  promptly
to inform the Association of any condition which interferes, or
threatens to interfere, with the progress of Part E (iii)   of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by FONADER of its obligations under the FONADER
Financing Agreement and under the Credit Administration Agreement.

                           ARTICLE IV
                         Other Covenants
    Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, by June 1, 1980, improve
and thereafter maintain the road from Guirvidig to Bogo as
                              -8-


required for the development of the Project Area, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.

     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall exercise its   rights under
the Protocole d'Accord so as to ensure that, except as the Asso-
ciation may otherwise agree, no works shall be carried out on the
Logone River which might have a material adverse effect on agri-
cultural development in the Project Area, and shall take, with
respect to its territories, all action required for this purpose.

      Section 4.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower speci-
fically undertakes to take or cause to be taken all action neces-
sary, including the guarantee of bank overdraft facilities of
SEMRY and the provision of funds by the Borrower to SEMRY on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to enable SEMRY to
perform its obligations under Section 4.03 (a) of the Project
Agreement.

     Section 4.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause FONADER to use the proceeds of the Credit
disbursed on account of inputs provided on credit to farmers under
Part E (iii)  of the Project, as and when such credits are repaid
by beneficiaries, for providing further such credits under the
program established under said Part of the Project.

                            ARTICLE V

                    Remedies of the Association

     Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:

     (a) SEMRY shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of SEMRY under the Project Agreement.

     (b)  A default shall occur in the performance of any cove-
nant, agreement or obligation on the part of SEMRY or FONADER,
as the case may be, under the Credit Administration Agreement or
the FONADER Financing Agreement.

     (c)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable: (i) that SEMRY will be able to perform
                               -9-


its obligations under the Project Agreement; or (ii) that FONADER
will be able to perform its obligations under the Credit Adminis-
tration Agreement.

     (d) A representation made by SEMRY in or pursuant to the
Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Association in
making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect.

     (e) SEMRY shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by SEMRY or by others whereby any of the assets of SEMRY shall
or may be distributed among its creditors.

     (f)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SEMRY or for the suspension of its operations.

      (g) The Borrower's Law or Decrees referred to in Section
1.02 (f)  of this Agreement or the Statuts of SEMRY or any pro-
vision of such Law, Decrees or Statuts shall have been amended,
suspended, terminated or repealed so as to affect materially and
adversely SEMRY's ability to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.

      (h) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FONADER or for the suspension of its    operations without
prior arrangements satisfactory to the Association having been
made by the Borrower for the transfer to another department or
agency of the Borrower of the functions of FONADER with respect to
the credit program to be established under Part E (iii) of the
Project.

     (i)  The Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24, dated May 29, 1973,
as amended by the Borrower's Law No. 77/05, dated July 13, 1977,
or Decree No. 73/496, dated August 28, 1973, or any provision
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, terminated or repealed
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of FONADER to
assist in carrying out Part E (iii)   of the Project in accordance
with the Credit Administration Agreement.

     (j)  The Protocole d'Accord shall have been terminated,
suspended or amended so as to affect materially and adversely
                                  -   10 -



the execution of the Project or the use of the works carried out
thereunder.

    (k)   (i)    Subject   to   subparagraph    (ii)   of   this   paragraph:

                 (A)   the funds to be provided under the FAC Agree-
                       ments shall not become available as and when
                       needed for carrying out the Project; or

                 (B)   the right of the Borrower or SEMRY to withdraw
                       the proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                       Borrower or SEMRY for the financing of the
                       Project, including the Caisse Centrale Loan
                       and the FAC Grants, shall have been suspended
                       or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                       the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
                       or

                 (C)   any such loan shall have become due and
                       payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

          (ii)   Subparagraph     (i)    of   this   paragraph     shall   not
                 apply if:

                 (A)   in case of an event referred to in subpara-
                       graphs (i) (B) and (C) of this paragraph, such
                       suspension, cancellation, termination or
                       prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                       the Borrower or SEMRY to perform any of its
                       obligations under such agreement; and

                 (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available
                       to SEMRY from other sources on terms and
                       conditions consistent with the obligations of
                       the Borrower under this Agreement and of SEMRY
                       under the Project Agreement.

     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:

     (a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SEMRY; and
                               -   11   -




     (b)  any event specified: (i) in paragraphs (e), (f), (g) or
(h); or (ii) in paragraphs (j) or (k) (i) (C) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


                             ARTICLE VI

                     Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:

     (a)  the SEMRY Financing Agreement      has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SEMRY;

     (b)  all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled; and

     (c)   the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement has been duly signed.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinions to be furnished to the
Association:

     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SEMRY, and is legally binding upon SEMRY in accor-
dance with its terms; and

     (b)  that the SEMRY Financing Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and SEMRY and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and SENRY in accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date June 1, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreemeit and the provisions of
paragraph (b) (i)  of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                               -   12   -



                             ARTICLE VII

            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

         Ministry of Economic Affairs
              and Planning
         Yaound6
         United Republic of Cameroon

          Cable address:                          Telex:

               MINEP                                  8268 KN
               Yaound6

     For the Association:

          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                          Telex:

          INDEVAS                                     440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.                            248423 (RCA) or
                                                       64145 (WUI)
                              - 13 -


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,    the   parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto   duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their    respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of     America,  as of the day and year
first above written.


                   UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON



                   By /s/   Benott Bindzi
                                            Authorized Representative


                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                   By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
                                          Regional Vice President
                                                   Western Africa
                                  -   14   -



                                SCHEDULE 1

                        Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                       of the Credit and of the Loan

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:

                                   Amount of the
                                 Credit and of the
                                  Loan Allocated            % of
                                  (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                     13,620,000       66%

(2)   Equipment and                    7,470,000       66%
      vehicles for
      Parts A
      through D and
      F of the Proj-
      ect, including
      a light plane

(3)   Equipment and                        960,000     66%
      fertilizer for
      Part E (iii)
      of the Project

(4)   Engineering                      2,020,000       66%
      consultants'
      services

(5)   Other con-                           580,000     66%
      sul.tants'
      cervices

(6)   Unallocated                      4,350,000


                        TOTAL         29,000,000
                              - 15   -



2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount
of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Association and the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower,    increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item as required to be con-
sistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and the
Bank.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions      of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

     (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,100,000, $400,000
and $100,000, respectively, may be made under Categories (1), (2)
and (4), respectively, on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1977; and

     (b)  in respect of expenditures under Category (3),     until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association, showing: (i) that the FONADER Financing
Agreement has been duly signed on behalf of the Borrower and
FONADER; (ii)  that the Credit Administration Agreement has been
duly signed on behalf of SEMRY and FONADER; (iii) that the execu-
tion of the FONADER Financing Agreement on behalf of the Borrower
and FONADER and of the Credit Administration Agreement on behalf
of SEMRY and FONADER has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action; and (iv) that the
FONADER Financing Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower
and FONADER and the Credit Administration Agreement is legally
binding upon SEMRY and FONADER, in accordance with their terms.

4.   Except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have
been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the
Loan Account except under commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
                              -   16   -



5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of  the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the Loan then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan, as the
case may be, which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association and the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)    if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
 further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.

6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association
or the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower cancel such amount of the Credit or the
Loan as, in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan.
                                  - 17   -



                                SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The Project is designed to provide for flood protection of
an area of about 15,000 ha on the Western bank of the Logone River
about 70 km North of Yagoua and the development for irrigated rice
cultivation of about 7,000 ha of this area, requiring the crea-
tion of a water reservoir with a maximum extension of about
38,000 ha. The Project consists of the following Parts:

Part A:    Flood Protection, Water Storage and Access Roads
            Construction of:

            (i)   a reservoir   dike of about   27 km between Pouss and
                  Guirvidig;

           (ii)   a flood protection dike of about 21 km along the
                  Western bank of the Logone River between Pouss and
                  TMk_l6;

          (iii)   an intake structure on the Logone River near Djafga
                  and a feeder canal for the reservoir of about 11
                  km between the Logone River and the Mayo Burad;

           (iv)   a weir up-stream from the Mayo Pouss and an outlet
                  into the Mayo Vrik near Maga for the discharge of
                  excess flood water from the reservoir; and

            (v)   two main access roads of an aggregate length of
                  about 50 km along the dikes to be constructed under
                  Parts A (i) and (ii) of the Project.

Part B:    Irrigation, Drainage and On-Farm Development
            (i)   Construction of primary irrigation canals and
                  drains to serve an area of about 7,000 ha.

          (ii)    On-farm development of said area, including
                  land clearing and levelling and construction of
                  secondary and tertiary canals and drains.

Part C:    Feeder Roads
           Construction of a feeder road network along the primary
           and secondary irrigation canals and drains under Part B
           of the Project.
                                 -   18   -



Part D:    Project Administration and Support

           (i)    Establishment, equipping and staffing of the
                  SEMRY department responsible for Project execution.

          (ii)    Construction and equipping of Project headquarters
                  at Maga, including staff housing, machinery sheds,
                  repair facilities and utilities.

          (iii)   Construction and equipping of a rice mill at
                  Maga, consisting of two milling units with a
                  capacity of 5 tons per hour each, and of storage
                  facilities for about 26,000 tons of paddy and
                  rice.

           (iv)   Construction of an airstrip at Maga.

            (v)   Training of local staff, including      scholarships
                  for specialized training abroad,        specialized
                  courses and on-the-job training.

           (vi)   Applied food crop research and studies on the
                  development of livestock and other food resources
                  in the Project Area.

Part E:     Settlement and Agricultural Credit Programs

            (i)   Settlement of about 7,000 farm families in the
                  Project Area, including resettlement of about 1,350
                  farm families living in the area of the water
                  reservoir to be created under Part A (i) of the
                  Project, to cultivate the land to be developed
                  under the Project.

           (ii)   Provision of infrastructure, such as enclosed
                  drinking water wells and feeder roads, and tech-
                  nical and extension services for farmers in the
                  Project Area.

          (iii)   Provision of seedlings, fertilizer, equipment and
                  other agricultural inputs and of housing construc-
                  tion materials, on credit, to SEMRY farmers.

Part F:     Health Program

            (i)   Construction and equipping of a health center in
                  Maga and three propharmacies in Yagoua, Guirvidig
                         -   19   -



           and Maga, and upgrading of the departmental center
           of preventive medicine in Yagoua and of the health
           centers in Guirvidig and Pouss.

    (ii)   Training of medical personnel required for the
           facilities included in Part F (i) of the Project
           and carrying out of a program to improve mother-
           and-child care and endemic disease control in the
           Project Area.

   (iii)   Surveys on the sanitary situation in the Project
           Area and monitoring of the health program.




The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
                              -   20 -


                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement;
A.   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Parts B.2 and D hereof, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth
in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines); such contracts shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines, except as provided in Part B.1 hereof.

2.   To the extent feasible, vehicles and equipment shall be
grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procurement.

B.   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and
furniture estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
each may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally, without notification of diplomatic and trade
representatives as described in paragraph 1.2 of Part A of the
Guidelines.

2.   Contracts for the purchase of office furniture and operation
and maintenance equipment estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $20,000 each may be procured on the basis of price quota-
tions from not less than three suppliers.

C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
     Domestic Manufacturers

1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Part B.2 of this Schedule:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f.
(port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price
for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost
to SEMRY or FONADER, as the case may be, of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
                               -   21 -


2.   Goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:

     (a) All bidding documents for the procurement            of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be           granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility         of a bid
for such -reference and the following methods and stages      that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.

     (b) After evaluation, responsive     bids   will   be   classified
in one of the following three groups:

          (1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
                Cameroon if the bidder shall have established to
                the satisfaction of SEMRY or FONADER, as the case
                may be, and the Association that the manufacturing
                cost of such goods includes a value added in
                Cameroon equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
                bid price of such goods.

          (2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
                in Cameroon.

          (3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.

     (c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if,  as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.

     (d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f.  bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f.    bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
                               -   22   -




the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.

D.   Procurement Without Contracting

     Civil works under Parts B, C, D (ii),     (iii)   and (iv)  and F
                       well  as  those  for the    feeder  roads under
(i) of the Project as
Part E (ii) of the Project may  be  carried out   by  force account by
SEMRY.

E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

     With respect to all contracts          estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:

     (a)  Before bids are invited, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, shall be furnished to the Association for its
comments, and such modifications shall be made in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.

      (b) After bids have been received and evaluated and before a
final decision on the award is made, the Association shall be
informed of the name of the bidder to which the contract is
intended to be awarded, and a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request, shall be
furnished to the Association in sufficient time for its      review.
The Association shall, if it   determines  that the  intended  award
would be inconsistent with the      Guidelines  or  this  Schedule,
promptly inform SEMRY or FONADER, as the case may be, and state
the reasons for such determination.

     (c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
                             -   23   -



     (d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.

2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request, shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after the execution of such
contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract. The Association shall, if it deter-
mines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SEMRY or FONADER, as
the case may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
