FA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
0 n~~~~~
Pe~o
ii
iii                        i~~~~~~~~~~It
'a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ........ ....



TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS
CCL           Central Coalfields Ltd.
CMPDI         Central Mine Planning and Design Institute
DGMS          Director General of Mine Safety
DSM           demand side management
EAC           Environmental Appraisal Committee
EAP           Environmental Action Plan
.EZA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
IOE           Institute of Environment
MCL           Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd.
HOEF          Ministry of Environment and Forests
NCL           Northern Coalfields Ltd.
NGO           non-governmental organisation
PAP           project-affected person
RA-           Rehabilitation Action Plan
RPM           respirable particulate matter
SECL          South Eastern Coalfields Ltd.
SPM           suspended particulate matter
TSS           total suspended solids
WCL           Western Coalfields Ltd.



Table of contents
I.    SECTORAL  AND  PROJECT  CONTEXT                                     ......................................    2
Sectoral  context   ......................................................  2
Project context .                      ....................................................... 3
II.   ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION AND REMEDIAL ACTION  ...................... 9
Overview  . ............................................................. 9
Laws and regulations ...............................................    9
Environmental  Management  Plans   .......................................  12
Coal   India's   corporate  environmental  policy   ..........................  14
Mine-specific  remedial  action   ........................................   19
III.       RESETTLEMENT  AND  REHABILITATION   ................................  21
Resettlement and rehabilitation under the proposed programme .... ..... 21
Resettlement  and  Rehabilitation  Policy   ...............................  25
Capacity building ......................5........................... 25
IV.   OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND MINE SAFETY ........                                               ..................... 28
Mine Safety and occupational health ...........                                             ....................... 28
Legislation,  regulations and standards  ........                                            ....................... 28
Corporate occupational health and safety policy  ...................... 29
ANNEX  1    PROJECT  DESCRIPTION   .........................................   30
ANNEX 2  ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND THEIR MITIGATION ................... 38



PREFACE
Considering the size of its economy, India is poorly endowed with energy re-
sources. It's major source of commercial energy is coal. Current reserves are
sufficiently large to meet India's demand for coal over the next 250 years. By
comparison, oil and gas reserves will last only for another 15-20 years.
By international standards India's per capita consumption of energy is among
the lowest in the world. Food security and even modest improvements in the
standard of living of almost a billion people will increasingly depend on the
availability of relatively inexpensive energy. Unless major technological
breakthroughs alter the options India faces for meeting its rapidly growing
energy demand, the country has little choice but to rely on the development of
its coal reserves. To be sustainable this strategy requires that:
*   the Government adopts policies that ensure that energy is used effi-
ciently; and that
*   coal producers take whatever steps are indicated to minimise the
adverse effects of coal mining on the environment and people.
This document was prepared by Coal India Ltd. (Coal India) to provide the
World Bank with an overview of the efforts the Indian coal industry and the
-Government are undertaking to mitigate the adverse effects of coal mining on
the environment and the people living in mining areas and working in coal
mines. Its preparation was triggered by Coal India Ltd.'s request for a loan
from the World Bank to finance replacement of equipment in *zinti4g mines and
equipment for completing the development of mines or for expanding production
of eziuting mines, as well as the expansion and rehabilitation of mining op-
erations. This document is based on extensive surveys of the environmental and
social effects of coal mining that were carried out by international consult-
ants, several Indian non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the staff of
Coal India. The findings of these surveys have led to substantial revisions of
Coal India's approach to managing environmental issues and, perhaps most im-
portantly, its policy for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people af-
fected by its projects.
This document consists of four parts. The first part provides a brief descrip-
tion of the project; the second part focuses on the environmental effects of
coal mining and their mitigation and the project-specific remedial actions;
the third part deals with the impact of the proposed project on the people
living in mining areas; and the fourth part provides an overview of the occu-
pational health and safety aspects of the project.



-2-
I. SECTORAL AND PROJECT CONTEXT
1.01 This part briefly describes the sectoral backdrop against which the
proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project has been designed. The first sec-
tion deals with the sectoral context. It argues that because of India's size,
its lack of transportation infrastructure and the fact that it has relatively
large coal reserves, coal-based electric power has emerged as the most effi-
cient way to meet India's rapidly growing demand for energy.
sectoral context
1.02  Domam  unz w orwa. Coal is India's most important source of cammercial
energy. It currently meets about two-thirds of India's energy needs. A com-
parison of reserves, production and consumption of major commercial energy
resources in India highlights the extent to which coal dominates India's en-
ergy economy. Considering that India's coal reserves are large enough to meet
projected demand for the next 250 years, and the fact that most of these re-
serves can be produced at significantly lower cost than other energy resources
(taking fully into account associated environmental and social cost), coal
will continue to play a dominant role in the years to come. As such, coal will
remain the cornerstone of the Government's strategy for the foreseeable future
unless there is a drastic shift in the relative prices of energy resources.
1.03 This strategy has to be assessed in the context of the medium and long-
term prospects of India's power sector which consumes the bulk of India's coal
production. India's per capita power consumption is among the lowest in the
world. Even with pricing policies that would bring electricity tariffs in line
with the long-term cost of production, the demand for power, and therefore for
coal, will grow rapidly. To meet the growing demand for power and eliminate
the persistent gap between supply and demand, the Government estimates a need
for additional capacity of around 7,C00-8,OOOMW per year.
1.04 DnuD amm aum.mo. To close the gap between power demand and supply,
Tndia will have to develop the full range of energy sources existing in the
country while putting much greater emphasis on efficient pricing, demand side
mmmagement (DSM), and increased efficiency in the use of existing generating
transmission and distribution capacity as well as the utilisation of electric
power.
1.05  Emu=r coua2=o. The prevailing low energy prices, when combined with the
cost plus pricing mechanisms for many industrial products, provide little
incentive for industry to conserve energy. Studies on India's energy conserva-
tion potential have shown that pricing of power at long run marginal cost
would reduce the need for additional capacity by almost 1,000KW per year. The



-3-
macro-economic reforms undertaken by the Government since 1991 are now gradu-
ally bringing about an environment in which significant DSM activities could
take place. In the expectation that major price reforms will be implemented,
DSM programmes are now being formulated in several States of India with sup-
port from bilateral and multilateral sources (including the World Bank). Over
the medium term, these programmes are estimated to generate energy savings of
about 500MW per annum.
1.06 Rrmuza inr. The longer term scope for renewable energy development is
estimated at over 20,000MW for wind and 5,000MW for mini-hydros, plus about
75,000MW for larger scale hydros. While some solar PV applications appear
economical in remote areas, it will take a few more years for them to become
economical in grid connected use.
1.07 Cme==uo. It follows from the above that:
*   after allowing for both price and non-price DSM measures and after
fullest use of feasible alternative energy programmes, conventional
hydro and thermal power projects will need to contribute some 5,000-
6.000W of additional capacity per year;
*   the immediate prospect of hydro projects in India is not bright
because of resettlement and rebabilitation problems and other envi-
ronmental issues; in addition,
*   in view of India's limited gas reserves, and until gas import op-
tions have been proven to be technically and economically feasible,
India has little choice but to continue investing in coal-based
power generation.
1.08 These conclusions are reinforced in light of India's current level of
development: an estimated 500 million people in India have no access to elec-
tricity service, and a majority of households still rely on fuelwood and dung
for cooking. Although research and development of alternate energy resources
for cooking are in progress, the use of these traditional fuels will continue
to increase in a population growing at about 2% per annum. Unless power gen-
eration and distribution systems improve and increase, this trend will result
in unsustainable pressures on forests, soil and water resources, and add to
the degradation of the general environment that is already too apparent in
many parts of Tndia.
Project contest
Origin of the project
1.09 Pmzuw-ow or amuur BWa=nmo. Until recently the Government financed between
70% and 90% of Coal India's investments. After the foreign exchange and budget
crisis in 1991, the Government began to phase out its budgetary support for



4
Coal India's investments (Fig-
ure 1.1). Because internally        Usuol. to Coalao
generated resources were in-
sufficient, over the past           Rs billon
three years Coal India's ca-
pacity to produce coal began                         CY1 udws ibe3
to erode gradually. Increas-                                       Y
ingly, equLipment that has          D   nm>=tWu und
outlived its usefulness can no          to filn= wrkidng
longer be replaced; and the
lack of spare parts is forcing 10
managers to 'cannibalise' part
of their equipment. No new
projects have been started.
Without a major injection of        5
financial resources, Coal                              anvnfmt sppt
India will enter a downward\
spiral of declining profits
and diminishing capacity to         °
-~~~   .  .                .~~~~~~9X4 1955 1956 195 1985 1989 1990 199 1992 1993 1994
borrow (as indicated by the
downward trend of the debt        S-= Ca Ini
service coverage ratio in
Figure 1.2).
1.10  Puma.. oauwenz. Over the past two years, the Government of India and
Coal India have implemented reforms aimed at making the coal industry commer-
cially viable and financially self-sustaining. The primary objective of the
proposed loan is to support this reform agenda and Coal India's transformation
into a commercial company whose operations are environmentally and socially
sustainable. The transformation, which would involve, inter alia, reliance on
market forces in the pricing and distribution of coal, closure of uneconomic
mines, more extensive use of contractors, opening of the industry to private
investors, phasing out of subsidies to loss-making operations, and investments
in improving operational efficiency as well as coal quality, will be costly.
The proposed loan from the Bank and the cofinancier will allow Coal India to
meet part of these costs. The remainder will come from a projected increase in
internally generated resources (due to efficiency improvements and the reforms
that will be implemented under the programme) and some modest market borrow-
ings.
1.11 In order for the programme to achieve the desired long-term financial
impact, it would:
*   support investments in opencast and underground mining operations
that are projected to yield the highest economic returns;
*  provide technical assistance in support of the programme: and



-5-
*   assist Coal India in miti-
gating the adverse effects       "    1.1 Dh laot d    wag...! iojatuu
of mining operations on the
environment and the people               g ml  DUOtIC
directly affected by mining      l1illii tons of coal
activities.
3o              with pro
1.12  Pzamumm DhuLm=a. The bulk of         2I0
the proposed loan would finance the
purchase of mining equipment for 33        2B                   itbmt pndet
mining operations in Nadhya Pradesh,        0
Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and
Orissa (Figure 1.3). Seventeen mines      2mD
need to replace their equipment; eight    200
mines need additional equipment in          1994 1995199619971998 1999200020D 200 2003 204
order to meet an increase in demand;
and eight mines are currently being
developed and require equipment to        0WX z4eaa upofts
reach their target production (Annex        iUn Ruee
1). Of these 33 projects, 25 are           i
opencast mines and eight are under-                      with oiwt
ground mines. The loan would also          w
provide technical assistance for re-
drafting the regulatory frameiork that                      
governs operations in the coal indus-                            w oi m
try. The aim is to enhance the              n
industry's competitiveness and effi-
ciency. In parallel, the programme                                         \
would assist Coal India in the re-          1
settlement and rehabilitation of the
people affected by the proposed in-
vestments and in community development
activities in the surrounding areas,      C0Xl inia's ability to bazow
as well as in mitigating the cumula-       Det service coverag ratio
tive adverse effects of mining opera-      28
tions on the environment and the
people living in these mining areas.       2.4h pmot
The project would also support             22
strengthening of the Central and State    2.0
agencies' (Central and State Pollution      fD n
Control Boards) capacity to monitor        L4                      Q
compliance with the environmental          L2
clearances.                                LO
M94 199 19961 997199819992000200120022032004



; :                             UTTrARPRADESH                   "               *  Patna
\ ' v ts * : No/lhem Colel- U ,: :'oh
Atta of                                                                 I .
,  /{      ~~main m3p                                                  Ngh  Bn:,
ratYoW, uUa CentnlCoalields Ltd.j
IS..,  *..    *  IEnd                   ....
*  Bhpal   MADHYAPRADESH                         fa     s.:                         KD°      gO*nP,
*~~~~~ I'a--. vpu                                      ',                HA
Nadh.mbu  a)els id
S ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    8s8a U^          )&ap;BbU           ,,
mallS ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      olfd  ltd. saO f'l'                                             '*  
Wouehelsemm Contpkl Ctal :elds Lid
UllUet    0 .1f                           Mahanadi Coalfields LtcL   iagaud
S..,  *                                              *ORISSA
MAHARASHTRA                                   ,J                    ',                                        BhubaA  100
Yadnupur        ' 
Uhopa               *                                            f /i pagur  13
:      ;   i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~j,-                                    ';7               Loation
"  "    ''                  "'             ,"   "' *,  , "'/           ~~~~~~oil subiproJ-ot
ANDHRAPRADESH                                                               D.ui0  2      310
GeaQazIqu                   200         300     4.            Calcutt
.#~~~~~~~~~~~~~aleae :Ia _0 /0.
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI~ 



-7-
1.13  Co  m  rznmucum mum       or .- wansi mau n. The total costs of .the pro-
posed programme are estimated at US$1.9 billion. The estimated foreign ex-
change requirements are US$1.1 billion. Coal India has requested a World Bank
loan of US$500 million, which would finance part of the required mining equip-
ment and technical assistance, and an IDA credit of US$50 million, which would
finance environmental and social remedial action programmes. Coal India has
indicated that it would be able to finance about US$800 million of the esti-
mated cost from internally generated resources and about US$150 million from
borrowings in local capital markets. The remaining UTS$500 million is expected
to be raised throuah cofinancing arrangements.
1.14  Pum r nounwn m. The design of the programme, which involved the iden-
tification of investments (subprojects) yielding the highest economic and
financial rates of return, included agreement with Coal India on (sub)project-
specific implementation arrangements, a review of resettlement and rehabilita-
tion requirements and plans and a review of Environmental Action Plans (EAPs).
this has also provided the Bank with an opportunity to assist Coal India in
strengthening its policies with regard to resettlement and rehabilitation and
the environmental sustainability of its mining operations.
1.15 Coal India has set up a Project Implementation Division (which employs
three fulltime expatriate consultants) at its headquarters to monitor the
implementation of the project, procuxement activities, the deployment of
equipment and the implementation of EAPs and Rehabilitation Action Plans
(RAPs). In addition, the subsidiary coal companies are strengthening their
capacities - both at their headquarters and the mine level - to deal with
environmental and social issues.
1.16  Pzn.X   uunuzozr.z. As indicated in para. 1.10 above, the proposed
programme would support Coal India's efforts to ensure that its operations are
(a) commercially viable, as well as (b) environmentally and (c) socially sus-
tainable. To ensure Coal India's financial viability beyond the period in
which the programme is being implemented, financial support under the
programme will be limited to mines that yield the highest economic return
while minimising adverse social and environmental impacts. To ensure that Coal
India's operations will be environmentally sustainable, Coal India is in the
process of building capacity in the subsidiary companies and at the mine level
(para. 2.23 and Figure 2.1) and will follow mine designs and operating prac-
tices that meet existing Indian environmental standards. To ensure that Coal
TInia's operations will be socially sustainable, Coal India has adopted an
enhanced policy for the resettlement and rehabilitation of project-affected
people (Box 3.1). This policy enlarges the scope of rehabilitation to all
project-affected people and safeguards against losses in their incomes or
standards of living. To ensure proper implementation of this policy, Coal
India now has Resettlement and Rehabilitation Cells at its headquarters and in



each subsidiary to implement and maintain resettlement and rehabilitation and
has taken steps to work with NGOs in identifying self-employment opportunities
for project-affected people.



-9-
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION AND REMEDIAL ACTION
Overview
2.01 This part provides an overview of the:
* main adverse effects of coal mining on the environment and
* various mitigating and remedial efforts to deal with these effects.
2.02  Zmnva6.    n muwm or com uxua. Coal mining, like most other industrial
activities, adversely affects the physical and biological environments (Table
2.1). Annex 2 provides a more detailed description of these environmental
effects, their underlying causes, the options for mitigating these effects and
the applicable legal provisions for doing so.
2.03  Kz,aarr  m  mmn i. zezau . The following sections deal with the
Government's and Coal India's efforts to contain, mitigate and remedy the
adverse effects of coal mining on the environment. The first section provides:
* a brief description of India's environmental laws, regulations and
institutions; this is followed by a section on
* the use of Environmental Management Plans (EMPs); a section on
* Coal India's corporate environmental policy; and a section on
* Coal India's plans for remedial action for the mines included in the
proposed programne.
Low and regulatio=.
2.04  Lnwmraso. Legislative action to protect the environment in India dates
back to 1927. Table 2.2 gives an overview of the major environmental laws that
govern coal mining operations, the main objectives and scope of these lawn is
described below:
*  Tar WAnT  (Puvmnrza. A  Coux=  or Pom=za.) Am, 1974. The aim of this Act
is to prevent and control water pollution. The Act provide_z the
legal basis for the establishnent of Central and State Pollution
Control Boards. These Boards establish standards for the discharge
of effluents.
*  Tm Wiu (P vwznau mm Conmmn r Poag&uz) Cz  ACE, 1977. The aim of this
Act is to reduce the wasteful use of water. It provides for the
collection of a cess on water use the revenues from this cess are
used to fund the activities of the Pollution Control Boards.
*   Tur lomz  (Co.mmvzos) Am,. 1980. Forest land, as all othez land, is a
'State subject.' In view of the steadily decreasing forest cover,
the Central Government enacted this legislation to encourage the
conservation of forest land. It requires State Governments to obtain
prior approval from the Central Government before releasing any



- 10 -
Table 2.1  major potential environmatal effects of coal uininq
Potential effects on physical environmenc     Potencial effects on biological environmenc
Air pollution                                   soil
•  Increase in level of suspended parti-         * Mixing of organic and inorganic strata
culate matter (SPIN and respirable (cl0       * Soil erosion from dumps
microns) particulate matter (RPM)             * Sterilisation due to mine fires
*  Increase in the level of gases like           * Topsoil sterilization due to stacking
Sulphur Dioxide, Nitrogen Oxides and          a Soil contamination from effluent discharge
Carbon Monoxide
Water pollution
*  Increase in total suspended solids (TSS)   Flora
*  Increase in oil and grease content            * Devegetation
* Acid mine drainage
*  Increase in chemical and biochemical      Faun
oxygen demand                                 * Impediments to migration
*  Increase in Iron                              * Loss of habitat
• Increase in Nitrates
Noise pollution
* Increase in the noise level
Vibration
* Vibration to ground and surface structures
Hydrology
* Changes in watershed and water courses
* Reduction in water flow
Hnydrogeology
* Changes in water tables
* Changes in aquifer discharge
TLandl
* Formation of voids
* Formation of waste heaps
* Transformation of agriculture and allied land
uses into residential and industrial areas
* Subsidence
* Surface mine fires
Source: Coal Xndia Ltd.
forest land for non-forest purposes. Subsequent modification of the
Act has provided for compensatory afforestation for forest land that
is being diverted to other uses. This Act also requires the return
of (the used) forest land to the Forest Department upon completion
of the mining operation.
*   Ta. Ama (Pmvmou mim Coamn  w Parxarz) Am, 1981. This Act provides for
the control and abatement of air pollution, restrictions on emis-
sions from industries and the imposition of penalties for noncompli-
ance with air pollution standards set by the Central and State
Pollution Control Boards.



- 12. -
Table 2.2 Overview of legsllative enactzUUts
Enactmants up to 1972                          mactments after 1972
The Indian Forest Act. 1927                 Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Rules. 1975
Bihar Wastelands Act (Reclaation.
Cultivation a IMprovement). 1946            Water IPrevention and Control of Pollution)
Cess Act. 1977
Mines and MLnerals Act (Regulation and
Developunti. 1947                           Forest Conservation Act, 1980
Factories Act (Pollution and Pesticides). 1948  Air (Prevention and Control of Pollutionu
Act, 1981
Mines Act, 1952
Environuental Protection Act. 1986
Orissa River Pollution and Prevention
Act. 1953                                   Amended Forest Conservation Act. 1987
Wildlife Protection Act. 1972
Note: The Ulf Caferac oan Hun eviron..at (Stockholm. 19721 spurred a *mber of enviraotmtal laws in india.
Sure: Coal India Ltd.
*    , zzaaL mume Aer, 1986. This Act provides the legal basis
for environmental protection in areas not covered by other Acts and
for establishment of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF).
It empowers the MOEF to assume a lead role in long-term environmen-
tal management and short-term response to environmental emergencies.
2.05  RPaW zouu. Pursuant to these Acts, the Government issues notifications
from time to time to ensure compliance with the legal provisions. The more
important ones which affect coal mining operations are summarised below:
*       A saz=m ous      Anzvz s    m e  uo aw&vr mm RXa= vm.s. Ambient envi-
roinnental management objectives are set to protect public health and
sensitive natural resources such as fisheries, vegetation and soil
productivity. Ambient or 'receiving' environmental objectives are
the basis for assessing and managing the cumulative impacts of
point-source discharges or emissions, which are usually regulated by
permits or consent letters, and non-point or dispersed pollution
sources which are not usually amenable to direct regulation. Coal
mining is a non-point source of air pollution and is therefore
guided by ambient objectives or standards. Ambient objectives have
been established for air quality, noise and drinking water quality.
These objectives are generally consistent with standards elsewhere
in the world under similar conditions.



- 12 -
*   Tmz WAIm (Puxgevzw wm Conoe or Pow!av) Rmau, 1975. These rules pro-
vide the legal basis for day-to-day operations of the Pollution
Control Boards and the establishment of laboratories for the analy-
sis of effluents.
*  DnuzaRm iw =mu n uunwuw. Discharge and emission standards are usu-
ally applicable only to discrete, point-sources of pollution, the
typical 'stacks and pipes.' The majority of air quality problems on
a minesite result from mobile and dispersed pollution sources (ve-
hicles. blasting and material transfer points). Waste water dis-
cbirge standards apply to a number of points on minesites: decants
from settling ponds associated with minewater collection systems.
wastewater from equipment maintenance and storage facilities, and
discharges from domestic sewage treatment systems. These standards
are generally consistent with those used in similar conditions in
other jurisdictions.
*   sUmWUm v  sun mm uzm. Although coal mining and, in particular
opencast mining, leads to extensive land disturbances, no statutory
standards for containing these disturbances exist, nor has the Gov-
ernment issued standards for land reclamation. However, in recent
years MOEF has made its clearance of coal projects conditional on
coal companies maintaining slopes of overburden dumps at 28° or less
and that reclamation will be carried out to make the area compatible
with the premining land use pattern.
2.^06  z D       -"zc- -s. The following agencies of the Central and State
Governments deal with environmental issues:
* The MOEF
- Regional offices of the MOEF
* The MOEF in each State
* Central Pollution Control Board
* State Pollution Control Boards
* Regional offices of the State Pollution Control Boards
Eni-ronmental Managament Plane
2.07 Since 1986 the Government requires the preparation and submission of
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) for investments in new coal mines or an
increase of coal production in existing mines. (Environmental Impact Assess-
ments (EIAs) are an integral part of the EMPs. There is a single document upon
which the MOEF bases its decisions and this is the EMP.)
Preparation o£ EMPs
2.08 According to regulations issued by the Government for the preparation of
ElAs and EMPs, the agency proposing to implement a coal project is required to



- 13 -
submit an application to the Secretary of the MOEF for an environmental clear-
ance and, if the acquisition of forest land is involved, a forest clearance.
The application needs to include a project report as well as the SMP for the
proposed operations. The MOEF will then review the EMP. In doing so. they will
usually avail themselves of the assistance of specialised advisory committees
known as Environmental Appraisal Committees (EAC). EACs, which review proposed
projects, include members of NGOs. The MOEF, at the advice of the EACs, has
the option to call for hearings on proposed projects, if they believe that
this would be in the public interest. (Hearings are usually held if there is
large-scale human displacement or if there are likely to be significant envi-
ronmental impacts.) Project-affected people and their (elected) representa-
tives have complete freedom to convey their views or objections to the MOEF
before a clearance letter is issued. If considered necessary, the EAC visits
the project site. After the EAC is fully satisfied with the EIA and the miti-
gation measures in the EMP, the MOEF issues a clearance letter for the project
with stipulations that would ensure the implementation of the required mitiga-
tion measures.
Consultation
2.09 Consultations with project-affected people and NGOs take place before
the clearance letter is issued (as indicated above), &uiam project implemen-
tation ad in the course of mine operations.
2.10 DuM=m iuam= inrns. If there are any environmental issues affecting
the people living nearby during the implementation of the mining project, Coal
India discusses these issues with the people and takes steps to alleviate them
as soon as possible. For example, if wells dry up, Coal India supplies potable
water. If houses or other structures are damaged due to vibrations from blast-
ing, Coal India repairs them. Whenever people in mining areas have concerns
about the impact of mining operations on their health, safety or welfare, they
convey them to respective mine managers. As such, mine managers are involved
in an ongoing process of consultation with project-affected people on environ-
mental issues and appropriate actions are taken based on these discussions.
Coal India has agreed to keep records of these discussions and any actions
taken.
Dissemina tion
2.11 Coal Tndia is in the process of making all project-related documentation
(project profiles, EMPs, the NOEF approvals, consent letters, letters of non-
compliance pointed out by regulatory bodies, and the EAPs) available to the
public at Coal India's headquarters in Calcutta and at the headquarters of
subsidiary coal companies. Notices to this effect will be put up at the of-
fices of the subsidiary company headquarters and the project sites. General



- 14 -
Managers (Environment) at all corporate offices have been instructed to handle
any inquiries and follow up any questions from concerned parties, including
NGOs .
Compliance
2.12  Rzmaunw uwuinwn. To enforce compliance with environmental laws and the
conditions contained in the clearance letter, all project managers are re-
quired to submit quarterly reports on air and water quality and noise levels
in their jurisdiction; semi-annual reports of the status of EMP implementation
are sent to the MOEF for all environmentally cleared projects; and all coal
mines have to submit annual environmental statements to the respective State
Pollution Control Board. In addition, regulatory agencies monitor compliance
through site visits.
Coal India's corporate .vjxom  ntal policy
Objectives
2.13 Coal India is committed- to comply with all environmental laws, regula-
tions and the conditions contained in letters of clearance by the WOEF. In
addition, Coal India's corporate environmental policy aims at:
a. full integration of EIAs and environmental impact management with
mine planning and design to facilitate the attainment of environmen-
tal standards, laws and regulations; and
b. mitigation, to the maximum extent possible, of the environmental and
social impacts of mining-
Strategy
2.14 To achieve these objectives, Coal India has adopted the following strat-
egy:
* Coal India will adopt mine designs that not only meet environmental
standards, but mi;nimise adverse effects on the ambient environment
and the people living in the surrounding area.
*   On new mines, environmental management will be fully integrated with
mine design, planning and development; comprehensive baseline sur-
veys will serve as the basis for EZAs and the planning of reclama-
tion activities.
*   Reclamation of 'mined-out' areas will aim at achieving post-mining
conditions that will help local people sustain or improve their
livelihood. Reclamation activities will be carried out in such a way
as to minimise delays between mining activities and post-mining use.
In carrying out these activities, Coal India will develop and adopt



- 15 -
reclamation technologies that are best suited for the Indian eco-
logical conditions.
*  Coal India will work closely with State Governments in identifying
an inventory of deforested land that can be used for compensatory
afforestation.
*   In the years ahead, Coal India will give priority to the protection
of air and water quality, the abatement of noise and the strengthen-
ing of its capability to reclaim mined-out areas.
Mitigating environmental management programmes
2.15  Hum Pain am =mm. Coal India is now fully integrating environmental
management considerations into the design and planning of new mines and expan-
sions of old mines. New EMPs and EAPs will contain multi-year operational
plans for the first five years of environmental activities which will subse-
quently remain 'evergreen' for the life of the mine.
2.16 Coal India is committed to full compliance with environmental standards,
EMPs, letters of consent and EAPs for all 33 subprojects by December 1997. In
addition, all surface areas subject to mining disturbances will be stabilised
and reclaimed by December 2000. In order to ensure that this schedule is
achieved, Coal India has prepared multi-year EAPs for each subproject with
benchmarks and budgets.
2.17       X      Owm=i    m     A  zvaz=m=. Coal India has decided that for environ-
mental monitoring, the Regional Environmental Cells of the Central Mine Plan-
ning and Design Institute (CMPDI) will be responsible for overall supervision
and guidance. Technically acceptable monitoring programmes will be in place on
all subprojects by the beginning of the pre-monsoon period 1996. Environmental
laboratories are being set up in the subsidiary companies and at CNPDI. CMPDI
laboratories currently cover the subprojects of CCL, NCL and the SECL sub-
projects in Korba coalfield. Until the other laboratories are completed, agen-
cies approved by MOEF are engaged to carry out the environmental monitoring of
the subprojects of MCL, WCL and those of SECL not in Korba coalfield.
2.18 Az ouros mm *o zAxunxn. Air quality monitoring will be undertaken in
all villages currently situated within core zones and on the fringe of buffer
zones to determine compliance with the environmental standards for suspended
particulate matter (SPM). All necessary measures, including watering of haul
roads, fine mist spraying at transfer points and quick regreening of overbur-
den dumps, will be taken to reduce dust to acceptable levels. Existing air
monitoring information for all colonies will be analysed to determine problem
areas, and remedial air quality management plans will be prepared for all of
these areas.



- 16 -
2.19  Smacu  mm imm aun=r mumm  . Surface water control and treat:ment
schemes, including collection drains, adequately-sized settling ponds and
polishing ponds before final discharge will be implemented at all subprojects
by December 1996. There will be no further discharge of untreated industrial
effluent directly to the environment after June 1996. Monitoring and soil
suitability studies will be undertaken in colony areas to determine the ac-
ceptability of septic field sewage disposal and, where needed, sewage treat-
ment facilities will be provided. Programmes for strengthening and/or
constructing drains and settling tanks are provided in the EAP for each sub-
project. An assessment of the quantity of water to be discharged from each
mine is required to obtain consent from the State Pollution Control Board for
the discharge of effluents. Mines will ensure that effluents meet Indian envi-
ronmental standards before discharge.
2.20 The impact of mining on local groundwater supplies will be assessed once
every quarter through monitoring of water levels and quality in local wells.
Where domestic wells are adversely affected, Coal India will provide alternate
sources of potable water.
2.21  Dnzna   wum _z___. One of the standard conditions in recent environ-
mental clearances is to keep the slope angle of overburden dumps to 280 or
less. This slope is considered a general guideline that will permit early
establishment of self-sustaining vegetation cover. In light of this require-
ment, slopes of future overburden dumps are planned to be kept below 28°. As
far as existing overburden dumps are concerned, Coal India will appoint a
panel of experts which will review the safety of these dumps by June 30, 1996.
(Coal India will submit the terms of reference for this panel to the Bank
before appraisal.) If the panel, which would consist of international and
Indian experts, finds that an overburden dump is unsafe, it will suggest reme-
dial measures. Coal India will immediately proceed with the implementation of
these measures. This panel of experts will also review the various options for
the reclamation of existing overburden dumps. Based on these reviews,, the
panel will submit to Coal India proposals for reclamation of these dumps. Coal
India will closely interact with local authorities and local people to estab-
lish end use objectives for each minesite. Native species will be used wher-
ever possible in reclamation programmes. For new dump areas studies will be
carried out to determine the most cost effective combination of initial spoil
placement and subsequent recontouring to achieve the desired spoil configura-
tion. A common pool of earth-moving equipment for the exclusive use of recla-
mation will be placed under the control of area environmental cells.
Significant horizons of organic soil will be conserved for use in plant propa-
gation facilities or in reclamation. Spoil placement will be carried out to
ensure that the most suitable materials for plant growth are placed on the
dump surface.



- 17 -
2.22  Zu-m-,mu pa  mjmznannan oorwr. Coal India is actively participating in
the implementation of regional environmental management plans coordinated by
various Regional Area Development Authorities. Coal India recognises the in-
creasing problem of fly ash disposal in the country and is cooperating with
pit head power generation companies in identifying ash management options, in
Particular ash disposal in abandoned opencast or underground mines. Coal India
is also prepared to beneficiate raw coal for consumers who are willing to pay
the additional cost.
Organisational structure for envirormental management
2.23 The primary responsibility for implementation of Coal India's corporate
environmental policy will remain with Coal Tndia headquarters in Calcutta,
coal producing subsidiaries and CMPDI. In order to be able to address environ-
mental issues more effectively, CMPDI, which provides expert services for mine
planning and design, environment and research, established in January 1993 an
Institute of Environment (IOE) at its head office at Ranchi and Regional Envi-
ronmental Cells at its regional offices. To safeguard the effective implemen-
tation of its environmental policy, Coal India will carry out, as part of the
proposed program, a review of its capacity to deal effectively with environ-
mental issues. This review will focus in particular on the need for changes in
the organisational structure, the skills and staffing requirements. Figure 2.1
shows the organisational structure that is currently in place to deal with
environmental and mine safety issues.
Staff development and training
2.24 To overcome the shortage of trained environmental staff. Coal India will
train available staff and recruit new staff when specific skills are not in-
ternally available. Coal India is planning to develop practical training
programmes for existing and inducted staff and new recruits with specially
designed curricula at local universities. The training programmes will include
environmental impact appreciation for senior management, effluent treatment
schemes for engineers, dump stability and reclamation techniques, and inspec-
tion and monitoring scheduling. A detailed training program will be developed
in the context of the review of Coal India' s environmental capacity. Coal
India is currently in the process of selecting executive and non-executive
staff for environmental positions throughout the companies. Executives will
undergo training at the Centre of Mining Environment at the Indian School of
Nines. In addition, training on environmental requirements and the implementa-
tion of environmental measures is being provided to all mine managers.
2.25 Coal India subscribes to the principle that good environmental manage-
ment is the responsibility of everyone - equipment operators, production
staff, environmental personnel and senior management.



IL
'U
Mliii
Ii          I,                     ',.--...--..-.--.-.I     I
'  ci              mI                        3
*  .          1*
z                                                     U
m                                            I
I                         ____         - I! -       =-*.
L!.J                         ii
p
...
j  0  NI
1            ii          HI
III                         I
F.                             I
Fr                 -
I                 I        Ii'
K
I.
r



.
- 19 -
2.26 In addition, Coal India proposes to establish annual awards to its em-
ployees for excellence in environmental programmes. paralleling the award
programmes for production and wsrker safety.
Mine-specific r emdial action
2.27 As indicated above (para. 2.07), legislation requiring the preparation
EMPs as a precondition for obtaining environmental clearances came into force
in India in 1986. For the 22 mining subprojects approved and initiated after
this date, Coal India has submitted EMPs and environmental clearances, issued
by the MOEF (consent letters), to the Bank. Eleven subprojects were started
before 1986. Coal India prepared EMPs for 7 of these projects, but was not
required to seek environmental clearance from the MOEF. As indicated below,
Coal India prepared EAPs for all 33 subprojects.
2.28 Coal India's EMPs cover most of the subjects required by OD 4.01. Areas
not dealt with in the EMDs, such as environmental policy, environmental law,
institutional arrangements, occupational health and safety and public consul-
tation, have been addressed in the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
of the Indian Coal Sector.
2.29 Mine emergency plans have been prepared under the Government of India's
1957 Coal Mine regulations; samples of these plans have been sent to the Bank
for review. Technical assistance will be provided under the proposed program
to review and, if necessary, update these plans.
2.30 In line with the corporate environmental policy outlined above, in par-
ticular the com-itment to self-police compliance with environmental laws and
regulations, Coal India has reviewed the status of environmental compliance of
the mines proposed to receive financial support under the programme. The re-
sults of this review and a progranme of action (EAPs), which would bring all
mines into full compliance with required environmental standards is attached
to the Sectoral Environmental Assessment for the Indian Coal Industry. Box 2.1
contains a brief description of the basic structure and information provided
in the EAPs. Each of the EAPs contains a time-bound action programme for envi-
ronmental mitigation which clearly identifies benchmarks to facilitate moni-
toring of the implementation of these plans.



- 20 -
3C  2.1      ootn i  Fie-ytea                             Actnl to   Planu (=n)
Description of an EAP
.- Background information:            .
0 NmamOf mine
* -o-.  tion (coalied and -Stat.)
0    V -   mof Min-     ..
^ -  -   S       .nction. dat anid. startup data
O *- Urent and azxdIm  production-
*£Nia life in yars (total and res4dual)
N a * mber of coal seams.. Vam heS.:           h codtenat-
* i,tri.ppig ratio (opencat ,BO--S)
;  *        :nE  depth of minin  *    -  -  -"   - *- -
-.- *    S S description of minangmthod and type of equipmAnt in use
-2. Currnt env:w       tl utatu        - ta.    -:t
.-  ' -      pm      . aett;.-.        '     - .---:-.;:-.t-
=*-.     4     4Plain   de     a3.- nd   .tl..
- - hydrology  dan ter qity u          ,     ---eneut,
-    WIr.uLity -and-nosLaaeetad~
~    *-   istirbedIlad xeclaoaiam.
T-'s3 ~rirmentat. -    management Vprogram.s fo Fiscal years 1993-96 to 1999-20000:
*-- iec.-1monitoring, auditinwa  evaaiad,
:-----;lony and water iity ma-nagm:.
a±r-:ualty. asdnosaagmt and
--    *  ¢ ,;igturbediand.rec      ;a"- -n --2 --         :
sectiqon a:l  inlude. a fi-eara a            budget   '    (1oerating and capital) for each
of .it  above. <
4. Also included in the;EAps are the areas covered by overburden dumps and plantation. In
addition, the programs (with auropriate bechmarks) for the comletion of protection measures,
such as effluent treatment ponds (settling tanks) and oil/grease traps, are shown.



f
- 21 -
III. RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION
3.01 In recent years, the social and environmental costs of developing coal
resources have increased considerably, particularly in the densely populated
areas of India's eastern States. Coal India finds it increasingly difficult to
acquire land for the expansion of its operations. To deal with these chal-
lenges and to minimise the adverse effects of these operations on the environ-
ment, Coal India has changed the designs of new coal mines; it has adopted
resettlement and rehabilitation policies that ensure that all people affected
by its projects are compensated for -their losses; it has intensified its com-
munity development programmes through which it aims to improve the living
conditions in villages adjacent to its mining operations; and it is strength-
ening its organisational structure to ensure effective implementation of these
policies.
3.02 This part of the sumnmary focuses on
a) the various impacts of the proposed programme on the livelihood and
living conditions of affected people, and
b)  Coal India s capacity to deal with these impacts.
Resttlmeint and rzhabilitatLon under the proposed programme
3.03 Out of a total of 33 subprojects proposed for Bank financing, 20 involve
resettlement and/or rehabilitation issues. In these 20 subprojects, a total of
18,257 people (3,904 families) will be adversely affected. The majority of the
project-affected people (PAPs) are located in Orissa (11,750 persons). Over-
all. 10,928 people will have to be physically resettled. Table 3.1 provides
details. Coal India has prepared detailed Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Action Plans (RAPs) for 16 subprojects. The four remaining subprojects com-
bined will affect only 53 people (9 families) and involve no resettlement.
While no RAPs will be prepared for these four mines, the affected people will
be rehabilitated according to the same entitlements and principles.
3.04 A summary of the RAPs is provided in Table 3.2. For the project period,
a total of 9,418 persons (3,575 families) are entitled to rehabilitation as-
sistance. Jobs with Coal India and contractors will be used to rehabilitate
3,569 people (38%) and 5,853 people will be entitled to assistance for self-
employment.
Indigenous peoples issues
3.05 About 29% of the project-affected people (5,203 persons) are classified
as tribals. With the exception of one mine (Jhingurdah), the tribal project-
affected population lives in 'mixed' villages together with non-tribals. All



- 22 -
Table 3..1 Nmber of poople affected in the Mines included in the proposed
prograes, 1994 to 2003
CMPny       Hie         Land to be Lad to b.  Total    frilb    Entitled   Parsons    troAl
acquired   possessed   PAPS    PAPa      PAPa      to be    affecced
(ha)     t(h)              *18 years           resteled  fahilies
mCL        Ananta           0         0        685         0       455         0        147
Opencast    Belpabar       25       659       3,941     1,110     2.387     3.300      838
Bb.zatpur      127      306       2,497        0       1516     1,294       521
Jaganmath        0       is       1,962        0      1,169     1.962       S17
Lakhanpur        9      140       1.010       156       567       865       293
Seuleswari       0      lS0       1.655       232       988        0        414
NmL        Jhingurdah       0         0        460       460       234       247        63
Opencast
CCL        KD Resalong      0        30        198       153        81       199        47
Opencast    Paraj East      0       237       1,172      467       528      1.170      257
S LL       Biaraspur      323       323        878       329       443         0       125
Cpeneast    Dbuanuri        1         1        239       211       131         0        49
Dipka            0        0       1,629     1.069       705     1,302       320
Genra            0        0       1.154       530       574       475      i18
Kumunda          0        a         176       75        83        115        23
SIC!.      Behraband        0         0         16         0         9         0         3
Underground Churcha West    0         0          5         0         1         0         1
Pandavpara      24       24         249       186      120         0         40
Pirarim          0        0          6         0         4         0          2
Siughali         0        0         2"        208       177         0        56
orea             0        a          26       17        14         0          3
Total          503    1,387      11.257     5.203    10.186    10,928     3,304
Source: Coal India Ltd.
the tribals speak Hindi as their first language, except in Orissa, where they
speak Oriya, the local language.
3.06 Most of the tribal communities are fully integrated into the Indian
rural society and are engaged in agriculture on fixed plots (as opposed to
slash and burn cultivation) or crafts related to agriculture (blacksmith,
carpentry, etc.; all of them have been in contact with mining operations for
the past 20-30 years. Their contact to the louts de world' is not new and does
not constitute a new threat to the survival of their identity. In places like
Madhya Pradesh, tribals constitute the majority of the local workforce in the
mines and have done so for more than 20 years. The Jhingurdah mine (in
Singrauli) started operations in 1965 and of the 63 project-affected families
(460 persons), 26 families have persons already employed by NCL.



- 23 -
T!ale 3.2  R habilitatLon Action  lamu 1994 to 1998 - an Ovum-vew of 16
Projets requiring plan.
COmpany    Kime      Families  Persons   Persons  Jobs to be .7obs to be Eeitled to  Proposed
affected by  to be  entltled to proveded  sought wl self-emlay  fulletm
project  relocated  rehab.   in mine  contractors  assist.   MR staff
MCL       AMnats       147        0       455        0        20       435         0
Opencaas    Belpahar   838    3.300    2,387        50        19      2,318        2
Ihar.tpur    521    1.294    1,516      800      260        448        1
Jagannath    517    1.962    1.169      680        30       459        1
kanptr    293        865       567       70        61       428        1
Samleswari   414       a       980       22        a        95g        1
NCL        Jhinaurdah    63     247       234       46       165        23         1
OvenaBt
CCL        1D Nesalong   47     198        81       14         0        67        0
Opencast    Parej East    53    286       133       15         0        11        ;
SECL       Biaraupur    125       0       443      124        0        319         1
Opencast    Dhanpuri    49        0       131       37        10        B4         0
Dipka       298    1.302       655      502      100         53        1
guwra        91      475       279      205        50        24        0
Xuaunda      23      115       83        24        0         59        0
SEML       fandavPara    40       0       120       57         3        60         0
UndEBrround  Singhali   56        0       177      141        40         0         0
Total     3.575    10,0U     9,g11    2,803      766       5,853       10
Scurm: Cal Xnda Ltd.
Pa.rticipation and consultation of project-affected people
3.117 During the preparation of the RAPs, the affected people were consulted
abniut their preferences for rehabilitation, etc.:
•   Since every household was visited by the interviewers, this created
an opportunity for consultation. The survey contained questions
regarding affected people's perceptions of issues related to land
acquisition, compensation, benefits of the project displacing them,
and the relocation site and the host community.
*   All consultants had more unstructured interaction with the project-
affected people than the officials of Coal India. Most of the con-
sultants organised focus group sessions for various groups in the
villages, such as women, landless and tribals. This information was
used to formulate a strategy for involvement of the project-affected
people in the Rehabilitation Action Plan, and for their active par-
ticipation in the resettlement and rehabilitation process.



- 24 -
3.08 Coal India has adopted a two-pronged strategy for the contiuead partici-
pation and consultation of project-affected people. One, through the formation
of a two-tier committee structure in which project-affect people are repre-
sented. At the project level, a coordination committee will be essentially
responsible for planning and implementation. At the area (or subsidiary)
level, a monitoring committee will be responsible for approvals, monitoring
and grievance procedures. In both committees, it is envisaged that two
project-affected people (preferably one man and one woman) will have seats.
These committees will consist of five people (six if a host conmunity exists).
This setup aims at institutionalising the participation of project-affected
people. Two, by breaking down the planning process into half-yearly periods.
The project level coordination committee is the body that formally submits the
half-yearly detailed plans of implementation to the monitoring committees. The
formulation of half-yearly detailed plans of implementation makes it possible
for experience gained in one period to be incorporated into the next plan, and
allows for substantial input from the affected population. Besides this more
formalised participation, it is envisaged that the day-to-day interaction
between project-affected people and project officers and NGOs involved in
resettlement and rehabilitation will provide opportunities for consultation
and participation. Figure 3.1 illustrates the committee structure.
Iaplementation issues
3.09 The major challenge for the implementation of the new policy is to make
self-employment an attractive and viable alternative to a job with Coal India.
The majority of project-affected people are farmers or agricultural labourers
Figure 3.1 Committee ntructuxe for r.u.ttleaent and rehabilitation
Subsidiarv Company/Area level
.onitoring Committee        * Appuwalofdeta iplans of
Directo (Tedincl) P&P or Nominee-Member/Secrta implementaion
DiwrikCoflectmorNlominee repreenting State Gwerment.Internal monitorig
2PAPs (Panchayat /1 woman)
Pemon of high repute       * Gnevan
Pepaatirt of:
1\real5ub-Project Execution level c  *Haf-yearly detaled plans of
Co-ordination Committee         ianpementalion
Depty CMER& R) (fulI-tme)-MemberfSecrtwy    * Q r   pmgress ps
BDO or equivalent State Govenment representative    MoRrstrvngpf
NGO Repreentative          a u Conf:mpamn
2PAPReprsentatives (I woman)   * Rotieent pa
Host aonmm ty esentative (if any)    * Rebabfiitatio activites



- 25
and the transition into other professions requires a great deal of follow-up
involving business planning assistance and extension services.
3.10 Technical guidelines for the implementation of the policy will be pro-
duced by the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Cell of Coal India based on the
initial experience in the four pilot subprojects. Technical assistance, mainly
by local consultants, and intense supervision by the Resettlement and Reha-
bilitation Cell of Coal India, is of critical importance to the successful
implementation of Coal India's Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy. In
addition to the monitoring by its Resettlement and Rehabilitation Cell, Coal
India will involve independent research organisations in regular reviews of
its resettlement and rehabilitation activities.
Rusettlmu.nt and RehabilLtation Policy
3.11 Resettlement and rehabilitation of project-affected people will be
guided by Coal India's Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy (1994). This
policy, which was adopted by Coal India's Board in April 1994, provides new
and uniform guidance to all subsidiaries for the resettlement and rehabilita-
tion of project-affected people. The main elements of this policy are
summarised in Box 3.1
Dissemination
3.12 Because the preparation of RAPs started before the current policy was
approved, then existing resettlement and rehabilitation policies served as the
basis for the consultations with project-affected people about their options
for resettlement and rehabilitation. To ensure that all project-affected
people are now fully aware of their options under the current policy, Coal
India (a) has translated this policy into the three most widely understood
languages: Oriya, Marathi and Hindi; (b)  made copies available at the Public
Information Centers at Coal India's headquarters in Calcutta, and the head-
quarters of subsidiary coal companies; and (c) will inform project-affected
people about their options under the revised policy at the time identification
cards are issued, i.e. well before decisions on resettlement and rehabilita-
tion measures are finalized.
Capacity building
3.13 In order to ensure effective implementation of Coal India's resettlement
and rehabilitation policy, Coal India has agreed to strengthen the implement-
ing organisational structure at Coal India's headquarters and 'area' levels.
Coal India has provided the General Manager(Resettlement and Rehabilitation) Is
office with sufficient resources and manpower to guide, support and monitor
the implementation of the new Coal India policy. Coal India will also hire



- 26 -
Doz 3.1 Main seaats of the RemettiUat and Rebabilitatio  Polcy of Coa M.dia
Category of pesons affcted by do pzJuct                 Cspmuation ad ehab.LLtatJlon stftlamc qpis.
A. (i   Persona fith  lend L. acquired.            -All4_awnm  with titlee will receive _ etrY c=:N  a-
lwludia  tribels cultivating lad            f       land acqired fro  tb_. - The valu  of tes lana..
u nd-tradittioal rightsa.     ,      ,      determed on the baWs of              lega-l norma.  diUition;
-a    feaaible. the euhaidieries wind offer -lovrmut ea pe
;thelr am policies (PeJcimgA):                              >4;
-i.._ ,* -   .      :b. proJect-mffected peole identfy end parchaa. t -th-.e,
.  :  a--itance of the eublidiazy, uivallet repleOm.at.Ia;
-uels thei- lad Copensation (Pacage a :
.-.*--:c. :te adiay will asmist   ject-affcted pople to
q        ,         ,    m. .,. .. - . .'etablih -no'term Mel,!t _mplfyuent throug -the provision  f
_-                                                      A;-:irstr,ncure. petty maca  or flormat  of copes-
:-   t-e - -Pack    CIO
d. -if noe og the oter package are avalabl. proect-effected
people with 1_  tha  two acrm old receive re£Jblaittio
aRs'istance in the fom of a eientnce alloanc or grat
4Ns .- -:  ;- - - -  . :- 5 ','&to.be oned f'or oductive Invett provid that thi.
.=- . ;.- ;- .-. : -, -               . .t--     ::- rr imme  f r suot sors do ot 1seag2 Rn,000 COO pr 
:A. 1111 "Persoona tme- hoateed Is apruire           -: :tbazwetvaffcd         ni]         e  tbh replacat -t
of-this b ateind ad the structu   oan it. In addition  tbe-
aubsidiariea acquiriaghie homestead will provide:
-- s.;:  -   -a--  .   - :  - -           -a  -. a  alternte home site measuring lotw  Wr faily,
:_: . .e:ist-nce In de-iudg the sw hose. if an deered W  the
--    ' -- -'"  ' '     '   '   '- f   -prosject-affected puma. a_
--'-_.=-_. :-i   Allowane tdo cvr the i'u c    ofst
-t  ;..    -; blat bengi-nw . to the reloction site.  ackae 3).
A. tllI Pers -wdhos land and homested                See. compame ation for cteoria A. ti) and A. (Li) ahove
a1r                   land leaseam. tn              Pacg.  C or jobs with contractors. Cntrectors will he
ar, da labu, .                            p- _v&   to give job  to eligibl projct-affece pepl an a
- - ' 'z  -    tial:   'L -  :': erm- falbls.
3. (ii  Tibal dep       t of fat progcn             --Pacage C oarjobs with coenctors. Contractor will be
,erauded to give je to elgibe project-ffect pople On a
- -        'ertial.- hee-.ls, wher et  bL. fe-eible. in aMti,ton. tht.
u-idia -         . shi -::1ft. the tribal. cominity .a  un- i
.e                   r   i
D:~~~~~~~~~~ . .... .;                    aslprv   : fnilLi   :t  ase  th  -paLl  ziada,f tba.
3 (iii! persons whose hometead is acutie.d    Packsg  E.
Sour0ce. coat. anl                                               .04



- 27 -
social scientists who will be posted at the area level and be responsible
fulltime for resettlement and rehabilitation activities for those projects
thi.t require the most assistance for self-employment. A total of ten profes-
sional social scientists will be engaged in the project, with a minimum of one
in each subsidiary where resettlement and rehabilitation is required. NGOs
will be engaged to assist in specific tasks, such as training for self-employ-
ment and community development work. Additional external consultants for peri-
odic evaluation surveys, case studies to identify self-employment
Opportunities and diagnostic studies to identify problems of integration at
resettlement sites will be provided under the proposed programme.
3.14 The major responsibility for implementation of the RAPs lies with the
subsidiary and area level management. Dedicated resettlement and rehabilita-
tion staff are currently deployed in several subprojects and/or at area lev-
els. The implementation chart for resettlement and rehabilitation at the
subsidiary and area levels is shown in Figure 3.2.
Figure 3.2 :mplemntation chart of resettlement and rehbailitation at
s-ubsidiary and area level
C,aimian/
Managing
IDir cI
D~ar
(Tedunical
(F&P)
m _m
I  L F
DMsruto       Daor                   PE~i~ena
resetdmeme
|  abtaion |        w
Ncf:Axnin-&IowelMve menssistant    Cmpensahn prepa .ton
Note:Aniu-aiow.rvd rvnue.cum.uuieyalibft



- 28 -
IV. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND MINE SAFETY
4.01 While Part III dealt with the impact of coal mining on the people living
in the areas surrounding coal mines, Part IV focuses on the effects of coal
mining on the people working in the mines. The first section briefly reviews
Coal India's record with regard to mine safety and occupational health; subse-
quent sections suzmnarise the measures the Government and Coal India have put
in place to safeguard the welfare of coal miners.
Kin. Safety and occupational health
4.02 Muam srs. Over the past three decades there has been a decline in fa-
talities from 0.62 to 0.34 per 1000 persons employed. While underground mining
continues to account for the majority of fatalities (the major cause is roof
or side fall), fatalities in opencast mines have been steadily increasing (the
major cause is accidents with heavy earth moving equipment). An international
comparison of fatality rates places India slightly above the average.
4.03  0cmm=owm min. Pneumoconiosis and hearing impairment are the two most
serious health problem Indian coal miners face. The percentage of coal work-
ers with pneumoconiosis ranges between 8.1% and 17.4% for underground mines,
and between 1.B% and 3.1% for opencast mines. Tests for hearing impairment
indicate that slightly more than 50% of the workforce seems to have some de-
gree of hearing impairment.
Lagislation, regulations and standards
4.04 Occupational health and safety in coal mines are governed by the Mines
Act (1952) and Indian Electricity Act (1956). Regulations and standards are
contained in the Coal Mines Regulations, the Mine Rules, and the periodic
circulars of the Director General of Mine Safety (DGMS). They range from regu-
lations for record keeping to regulations for explosives. DGMS circulars are
issued on specific technical subjects such as safety provisions for winding
installations, reduction of vehicle-related accidents in opencast mines, and
the design of vehicles for explosives transport. Specific measurable standards
have been established for airbourne dust, noise, and lighting in both under-
ground and opencast mines, and for ventilation and temperature in underground
mines. Application, inspections and enforcement of the Mines Act and its regu-
lations, rules and standards is the responsibility of the DGMS in the Central
Government's Ministry of Labour.



- 29 -
Corporate occupational health and safety policy
4.05 Coal India regards the health and safety of its workforce as its primary
responsibility. Health and safety will be assured through appropriate mine
designs, planning and mine development that avoids hazardous and unhealthy
conditions; consulting and educating mine managers and workers; regular moni-
toring, inspections and audits of the workplace; and regular medical examina-
tions of employees. Coal India is committed to full compliance with all
occupational health and safety regulations on all subprojects by December
1995.
Institutional arrangements
4.06 Occupational health and workplace safety are dealt with separately in
Coal India's organisational structure. Health is the responsibility of medical
services units at both the corporate level and in the central hospitals of the
subsidiary companies. Safety is the responsibility of an internal safety orga-
nisation operating at all levels from corporate to project.
* OomumamLn aUos. Responsibilities for occupational health at the
corporate level are shared by the Chief of Medical Health Services
and the newly-created Institute of Occupational Medicine and Hygiene
at CMPDI. Ranchi.
* Coal India will have in place a fully computerised, regularly up-
dated employee health record system by December 1996. Radiology,
cardiopulmonary, audiometry, ergonometry and psychiatric diagnostic
capability will be strengthened at both the corporate and subsidiary
company levels. Employees will have periodic medical examinaticns at
least every 18 months.
-  Wcmn=A  sauns. Coal India recognises full worker participation as an
essential element in the success of mine safety programmes. A safety
committee at each mine, comprising representatives of mine manage-
ment and trade unions, meets monthly to review safety provisions,
analyse accidents and dangerous incidents, and make recommendations
to management-



- 30 -
Page 1 of 8
ANNEX 2 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.   This annex consists of an overview table which contains a brief descrip-
tion of each subproject, including type of operation, current production and
production goals, premining land uses, status of environmental and social
issues, and the related project costs.
2.    The following abbreviations have been used in the table:
CCL     Central Coalfields Ltd.
MCL     Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd.
NCL     Northern Coalfields Ltd.
SECL    Southeastern Coalfields Ltd.
WCL     Western Coalfields Ltd.
EAC     Environmental Appraisal Committee
EAP     Environmental Action Plan
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
HP      Madhya Pradesh
MEF    Ministry of Environment and Forest
PAP     project-affected person
R&R     resettlement and rehabilitation
UP      Uttar Pradesh



Detailed project debcription
Cpny/                hAcation                                 Nine profile                                        status of              Cost of         Total        Persons        Cost
Nine                                                                                                          environmental           environ.         PA"           to be        of IUA
clearance             action                      resetled       action
NCL (opencstl
Slina           singraull               Opencast mine in operation since 1946 with draglines.              As thi leia n old mine,         2.47
crltield,               Production is 5.5 etilton tonnes per year. The mine reuvies    to aetwrountal
Sonebhadra. UP          replaceent of equipmnt to maintain production,                     clearance is required,
Premining land uses of 12C4ha consist of about 60t                hwenver RAP has
torest ad shrublands. The balance is dry agricultural             been prepared.
land, unoccupied lAnd and small villages.
Dudhichua       Singrault               Opencast mine In operation since li1  with                        DIP prepared  nd                2.50               -              -            -
coalfield, slibi.       draglines, shovels and trucks. Production is 4.0 million           cleared bt  MtOu on
HP ad                   tonnes per year. The mine requires replacent of  quip-             July 3, 1990.
Sonebbadra, UP          ment to maintain production and additional equipmant
to raise production to 10.0 million tonnes per year. Pre-
mining land uses of 1694ha consist of about 464 forest
and obrublands. The balance is dry agricultural land and
unoccupied land.
JIyant          Slngrauli               Opencast mine in operation since 1975 with dreglinas,              SHP prepared and                3.25
coalfield,              shovels and trucks. Production Is 1.0 million tomns per           cleared by INP on a-
Sidhi, HP               year. The mine requires replacemnt of equlpent to                  Decmber 4, 1992.
raise production back to the planned level  110.0 million
tonnes per year Pr,ianing land uses of 2464ha consist of
about 47t forest and shrublandn. The balance is dry
Agricultural Iand. unoccupied land And small villages.
Jhingurda       Singraull               Opencazt mine in operation since 1965 with shovelsand             JAs this Is an old sine,         5.53            440            241         0.31
coalfield,              trucks. froduction is 3.0 million tonnes per year. The mine       no envirosntal
Sldbi, KP               requires replacmnt of equipment to maintain produc-               clearance to required.
tion. Preininq land uses of 12COha consist of about 6I2           hwever tAP has
forest and *brublands. The balance is dry agricultural            been prepared.
land, unoccupied land and small villages.
Nigabi          lingrauli               Opencast mine in operation since 1934 with draglines.              EIP prepared and               3.52               -              -            -
coalfield.              shovels and trucks. Production is 2.9 million tonnem  per         cleared by MtNr on
sidhil MP               year. The nine requires replacemnt of equipnt to                  October S. 1957.
maintain production and additional equipment to ralse
production to 1.0 million tonnes per year. Premining land
uses of 3C16ha consist of ebout 40 ftorest and shrublands.
The balance is dry agricultual larnd and unoccupied land.
'U
'0
co



CLPany/              Location                                mine profile                                         Stcatus of            Cust of         Tbtal        huroma          cot
Kine                                                                                                          environaental           environ.         ?APB          to be        of IUR
clearance             action                      resettled      action
NM lopencasti
AnMnta          Talcher coalield.       Opencast aine in opration since 12B9 with shovels and              3(A  was prpated               2.51             615              -         0.59
Angul, Orissa           trucks. Production is 4.0 milliontonnes per year. Te  ine          and cleared by mo"
needs additional equipment to raise production to 5.5             In July 1955.
million tonnes per year. Premining land uses of S10ha
consist of 25% forest and shrublands. The balance is
Government and tenancy lands.
BeIpbar         lb valley,              Opencast mine in operation since 1982 with shovels and               P was prepared               2.40           3,311          21300         0.91
Sa'Ialpur.              trucks. Production is 2.0 million tonnes per year. The mine        and cleaed by mIU
Orissa                  requires replacement of equipment to mintain                      in Septembr 19e5
production. Preaining land uses of 1601h1 consist of 40%          And lMrch 1992.
forest nd shrublands and 331 dry agricultural land. The
balance is unoccupied land and sa=l villages.
Bbaratpur       Talcher coalfield,      Opencast mine In operation since 1985 with shovels nd              W  was prepared                2.51           2,497          1.291         0.18
Angul, Orises          trucks. Productlon is 3.5 million tonnes per year. Sh  mirne        and cleared by NOV
requires replacement of equipunt to mintain                       In January 1992. 172hw
production and additional equipment to zemie production           of forest was cleared
to 5.0 million tonnes par year. Premining land uses of Silsh   by NOmu on
consist of about 251 forest and shrublands. The balance           November 11. 1991.                                                                                La
is Governmnt land, agricultural In nd snal villages.
Jaganath        Salcher coalfield,      Openeast mine ir noeration since 1971 with shovels and             As this is an old              2.43           1,962          1.962         0.45
Angul. Orissa           trucks. Production is 5.0 million tonnes per year. Sb  mine       mine. no emirormental
requires replacemnt of equipment to maintain                      clearance is required,
production. Premining land uses of 793hw consist of               hrwever ElP has been
about It forest ad  shrublands. The balance is                    prepared.
Governmntal and tenancy lands.
alkhanpur       lb Valley,              Opencast mine under devolopment since 192t to oprate              W  was prepared                3.33           1.010            165         1.47
Sahelpur,               with shovels ad trucks. The mine has produced 700,000             and cleared by  aOrF
Orlosa                 tomes to date. Wine requires additional quipment to                in Septemr 1991.
reach target production of 5.0 million tomes per year.
Premining Iand uses consist of about 17% forest ad
shrublands. The balance is Government lnd, agricultural
lnd and small villages.
Esaleewerl      lb Valley.              Opencast sine under development since 199I ; to operate             W  was prepared               2.64           1,655              -         0.19
Sa6bolpur.              with sbovels and trucks. The mine has produced 1.7 million        and cleared by ImU
Orivsa                  tonms to date. Mine requires additional equipmnt to reach          in Septemer 1991.
target production of 3.0 million tonmes per year. Premining
land uses of 906hs consist of about 661 forest and
abrublnds  nd 341 dry agricultural land and oll villages.                                                                                                 'o
co



CqinyI              Location                              mine profile                                      StAtus of            Cost of        foIal ]      Paron         Cut
Nine                                                                                                    enviro,uental          mzvirzn.        PAP          to be        of UAR
clearance            action                    resettled      action
M  (opencastl
Durgapur       Vardha Valley,         Opencast mine in operation since 1991 with ebovels and          As this I an old mine,       0.41              -                          -
Chandrmpur             trucks. Production is 1.6 million conne per year. ma mine      no enviromm-tal
Kaharashtra           requires replacsmnt of quipment to mintain                     celsoane is required,
production. Premining land uses of 112ha consist of            hoev"r EIP has
about l31 forest and shrublAnds. the balance is dry            been prepared.
agricultural Iand and unoccupied land.
21111.         wardha Valley,         Openoast mine in operation since 1991 with shovels an           i  prepared and              0.15              -             -            -
Yeotml,                trucks. Production is 2.3 million tonnes per year. The *iao    cleared by Non on
Kaharashtra           requires replacent of equipment to mintain                      February 13. 19587.
production. Ptrmining land uses of llilha consist painly
of dry agricultural Iand and a smll percentage of
unoccupied lend.
rFapur   Y       ardha Valley,        Opencast mine in operation since 1955 with shovels and         D  prepred and                0.21
Chandrpur,             trucks. Production Is 1.0 million toness per year. the min     cleared by NIlO on
Kahasrhtra            requires replacement of euipent to mintain                      December 13, 1991.
production. Premining land uses of 551ha consist mainly
of dry agricultural lend and unoccupied land.
L-a
ksati          Variha Valley,         Openceat sine In operation since 1995 with shovels and          D  prepred and               0.41              -             -           -
Cbandrapur,            trucks. Productlon is 1.1 million tonnes per year. The mine    cleased by NIO  on                                                                           I
Kaharashtra           requires replcement of equipnt to maintain                      April 3. 1919.
production. Freuining land uses of 719ha consist of
more than 90% agriculturel lnd. The balance Is
unoccupied land and sall villages.
tkror          Wardha Valley,         Opencast mine in operation since 1961 with draglines.          Ls this Is an old mine.       0.41
chandrepur,           shvels and trueks. Frocuction is 2.2 million tome per           no enviroanental
liharashtra           year. The mine rquires replacent of equipment to                clearance Is required,
maintain production. Premining land uses of SOmhe              however DgP has
consist mainly of dry agricultural land  nd unoccupied         been prpred.
lAnd.
'0
oo 



Copny/               Location                                 mine profile                                        Status of              Cast of         SotaJ        Forsms         Cast
Kine                                                                                                          environentel            evwirz.           PAP          to be        of EAR
clearA.e              action                      resettled      acticn
CML lopencastl
IID Kealong     N. Karnpura,            Openceat mine in operation since 1961 with shovels and              W  prepared und                3.57            1IS             191         0. 2
Rnchi, lihar            trucks. Production is 2.0 million toones per year. Mine            cleated by NOW on
requires additional equipsnt to raise production to               October 29, 1992.
to 45 million tonnes per year. freining land uses of
551b consist of 0S forest and shrublands. The balance
is dry agricultural land, unoccupied lan nd small
villagXe.
lrdj tast       West Bokaro,            Opencast mine under devolopment since 1992; to operate             mEl prepred and                 :.S            1,172         1,170         1.44
Kasaribagh,             with shovels and trucks. Nine requires  dditional equip-           cleared by ioms  on
Bihar                   ment to reach target production of 1.6 million tomes per           Novembr 21, 1592.
year. Premining land uses of 495ha consist of about 25%
forest and shrublAnds.  he balance is dry agricultural
land, unoccupied land nd small villsgos.
KAjrappa        Ragarb coalfield,       Opencast mine in operation since 1973 with shovels arn              ME prepared and                2.25               -              -
Pasaribagh,             trucks. Production is 2.3 million tonnes per year. Th  eonA        cleared bY MlD  on
Bihar                   requires replacement of equvipent to mintain                       November 21, 1992.
production. Presining land uses of 1857h  consist of                                                                                                                 a
about 421 forest and shrublands. The balance la drY y
agricultural Ilad, unoccupied land and mll villages.
tn
co 



Cmpany/              Location                                 Nine profile                                         Status of             Cot of          total           rsmons       Cost
mine                                                                                                           environsntal            environ.         ?Aft         to be         of 5R4
clerance               action                     resettled       action
AE lopencasti
eiarapur        Blsrapur                 Opencast mine in operation since 1960 with dgaglines,             As this is an old mine,         1.96            G1I               -         0.66
coaltteld,              shovels ua  trucks. Ptoduction is 1.1 million tonnos per           no enviromenUtl
Surguja, HMP            yar. Tha mine requires replacement of equipmnt to                  clearance In required,
maintain production  Premining Iand uses of 1472ha                 however DIP his
consist of 33% forest and abrublands. The balance 1I dry           been prepared.
and irrigated agricultural land and bodies of water.
Dhbnouri        sohagpur                Opencast mine in operation since 1919 with ehovels and              OtP prepared and               0.65             239              -         0.13
coalfield,              trucks. Production ts 1.1 million tOnnes per year. The mine        cleared by 110P In
Ihahdol, HP             requires replacemnt of equipment to mintain                        September l11.
production. Prmining land uses of 1122ha consist of 66%
forest and shrublands nd 341 dry agricultural lnd and
small villages.
Dipka           Korba coalfield.        Opencast mine In operation since 1917 with shovels nd WAM   prvared and                            1.25           1.629          1.302         0.44
allaspur, H?            trucks. Froduction is 2.2 million tonnes per year. Th  mine        cleared by NOP on
requires replacment of equipment to mintain production            July 10, 1155.
and additional quipment to raise production. Preining
land uses of 1551ba consist of 101 forest and shrublendu.
The balnce is unoccupied dry agricultural land and aall
villages.
oevra            Korba coalfield,       Openeast mind in operation since 1985 with shovels and             As this is an old mine,         3.00           1.154            475         0.31
Dilaspur, HP            trucks. Production Is 14.0 million tonnes par year. The mine    no avirotmntal
requires roplacmnt of equipmnt to mintain                          cloarance is rquired,
production. Premining land uses of 2946ha consist of               bowver SAP has
dry and irrigated agricultural Ilad, mll villages  nd              prepared.
bodies of water.
Kusraina        Korbh coalfield,        Opencast mine in operation since 1919 with shovels  and             EXP prepared  and              1.71             176            115         0.83
Bilaspur, h             trucks. Production is 4.1 million tormns par year. Il  mine        cleared by NOU on
rquirca replacmnt of equipment to maintain                        July 10, 1966.
production. Prnmning land uses of 1544hk consist of
321 dry agricultural land and 60% irrigated agricultural
Ind. The balance is smll villages.
Nanikpur        lorba coalfield,        Opencast mine In operation since 1966 with shovels and             As this is an old mine.         1.14
Blilaspur, H?           trucks. Production is 2.0 million tonms per year. The sine         no envirosmental
requires replacement of quipment to Maintain                      clearance is required,
production. Premining land uses of 1652ha consist of               however DiP his
33% forest and shrublands. The balance is dry                     been prepared.
agricultural land, unnoccupied land and mall villages.
Is 
'0
eo 



Caspny/              1.ocation                                Mine profiJi                                        Status of              Cast of         fttal         erson          Cost
mind                                                                                                          enlrou'zntel            environ.          PADS         to be         of IS
clearance              action                     resettild       action
SEC2 (underground)
Bangvar         Shagpur,                Seai-mehanlsed bard  nd pillar mine in opration since               W  prepared And                0.25               -
Sbhdol, IP              1951.  roduction is 300.000 tormes per year. Th  mine              cleared by NOVP on
requires additional equipment to leach target produetion          July 5, 1935.
of 650,000 tonnes per year. Prteining land uses of 450lh
consist of 921 forest. The balance is dry Agriculviral
len and bedlas of water.
Behraband        aidec,                  semi-rechsnised bord and pillar mine in operation as a            As this Is en old mine          0.35               16
Shahdol, MP             pilot since 1956. Production Is 210,000 trnnms per year.           no environmntal
The mine requires additlonal equipmnt to reach target              clearance is required,
production of C00,000 tonnes per year. Presining land uses         hcwver UP has
of 219ha consist of dry agricultural Iand, small villages          been prepared.
and bodies of water.
Churcha         saikuntbpar,             Mechanised bhrd and pillar mine in operation since 1970.           a   prepared end               1.36               5
West            sarguja, MI              Production is 320,000 tonnes per year. The mine requires           cleared by NODF on
additional equipmet to raich target production of                  February 17, 1995.
C00,000 tomes pet year. Preining land uses of 555ha
consist of 33t forest and shrublands. The balance is dry
agricultural land and sall villages.                                                                                                                                w
Kuria           Hasdeo,                  slope and shaft mine under development since 1961. Pro-            Ott prepared  nd               0.35
Skahdol MP              duction is 70,000 tonnms per year. The size requires               cleared by NOR? on
additional quipmnt to reach target production of                  march 17. 1993.
400,000 tonnes per year. Preuining led uses of 449ha
consist mainly of agricultural land and unoccupied lend.
Pandavpra       uaeiunthpur.            Manual bord and pillar mine under development since 1990.          DIP prepared and                0.43             249              *         0.1I
larguja, IU             Production is 210.000 tonnes per year. The mine requires           cleared by MU an
additional equipmnt to reach target production.                    January 30. 1995.
Fresining land uses of IlOiha consist mainly of forest
and shrublnds.
Piperia         Johilla,                Semi-mechanised berd and pillar mine under develop-                QU pregared and                 0.42                              -
Shahdol, MP             ment since 1991. Production is 10.000 tonnez per year.             cleared by NeW  on
The mine requires additional equipment to reach target             March 16, 1991.
production of 240.000 tnnes per year. tremining land
uses of Iltba consist of dry agricultural lend.



COAnyI              Location                               mine profile'                                      Status of             Cost of         retaJ       Persos         Cost
mine                                                                                                      envlrorneAl            mzviron.         PAPa         to be        of MR
clearawe              action                    resettled      action
SrM lunderground)
Singbali        Morba,                 Sei-cbhanlaed bord and pillar mine under developmat              IP prepared and               0.30            23               -        0.14
Bilaspur, MP           Slims 1933. Vzodacttou is 240,000 twuns Pat yea. The             cleane  by M     In
mine requires odditional equipment to reach target              february 1S5.
production. traiming lan  use, ot 942hl  conist ot
about 33t forest and abrublands. The balance Is dry
agricultural land and smil villages.
Soms            Hamdeg,                Manual and  chantsed bard and pillar mine In                    hs this Is and old             0.3l             26
ShaMol. MP             operation since 1974. Production Ia 550.000 tnnes per           mine. n  enwirnnnal
year. Us aine requires replacmenet of equlpment to              clearance is required,
maintain production. Premining lnd usas of 055ha               bhcevsr goP bas
consist of oer that 50% irrigated agricultural land. SO         ben prepared.
balance is unocupied land, usll villags and bodies of
water.
I-a
cc
co



.
- 38 -
Annex2
Page 1 of 7
ANNEX 2 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AZND THEIR MITIGATION
1.    This annex consists of a table which contains information concerning the envi-
ronmental issues faced by mining operations, their underlying causes and adverse af-
fects, technical solutions to the causes and effects, and legal policy and provisions
concerning the issues.
2.    The following abbreviations have been used in the table:
BOD      biochemical oxygen demand
COD      chemical oxygen demand
CPCB     Central Pollution Control Board
HEMN    heavy-earth moving machinery
OB       overburden
RPN      respirable particulate matter
SPM      suspended particulate matter
TSS      total suspended solids



nvsironmental isues and their mitigation
tnvironmental                   Underlying                           magnitude of                             Technical solutlons                       Legal poJlcy/
etfects                       causes                           probladverse                               'cost is mangeable                           provisions
effects a                                 cost is high
AIX oll'Atieo
1. Increoase in the level    * Drilling rocks and coal.    Problem is inherent In  lIl opencast        Blast In clmoer conditions.                Catn*l Pollution Control Board ICKI) has
of suspended parti-      * Blasting rocks ard coal.    mines and coal handling plants.            I'xtrsctlon of drill gusings.                preucribed tolerawn limits for SU and SA
culate matter (SPM)      * Handling and transport.       Effects. bronchial problesm, lui          'eutllblacktop transport reoe.              in Industrial some. rurallresidential
and respirable (110         of rocks and cosl.           diseaas, dust nuisance.                   'Dust suppression with water at             zones and senitive :ones. Tnese standards
microns) particulate     * Coal crushing and loading                                               crushing, tranfer and loading points.    are fixed undrr powers delegated to CPCB
utter IRPM).                In handling plant.                                                     'Stop open air soft coke making -           by Section 1612h) of the Air Prevention and
Sott coke aking.                                                        anufacture In proper plants.               Control of Pollution Act (15(11. 4
* Beehive coke oven                                                      'xodify emistion chimney of beehive
emissions,                                                             hard coke ovan.
'eWter haul roads.
"Spray water and chemicals on haul roeds.
"Coal transport with conveyers.
3. Increase In the level    ' Blsiting in mines.             Mining does not cause any perceotible    use correct type and quantity of             See above.
0, uAd 1N0. in the       * Soft coke mking.              change In So, or NO. content of air.      explosive charges for efficient blasting
ambient air.                Beehive hard coke oven       In Jhatia coalfield lavels exceed          nd to reduce the chances of i  c-olete
emissions,                   limits because of mine fires  nd          detonation.
* Auto emissions.               anufacture of soft and herd coke. In      Stop open air soft coke making -
* mine fires.                  Singraull. because of super thermal       anufeoture In proper plants.
powr staties. levels  ometimsx ex-         Modify mission chimney of beehiv
ceed limits. None of the subprojects      hard coke ovens.
has levels that exceed standrds.          'Proper maintenance of truck engines.
Effects: high lenvl of SO, causes eye    "Control the mine firex.
Inflammation - excessive exposure to
high levels nay be fatal, NO. can cause
throat congestion and edeA of lungsn
Slgh levelx of either gas may cause
acid rain and affect vegetation.
Hatet pgllutiem
1. Increase In total         * Direct puMing froe sine    This problem is severe only during           Provislon of lagoons for settling of       Vide COzette notfication CGI-429131 dated
suspended solids (TSR).    wotkings to natutal wnter   monsoon season. During other seasons          nsoon water is not practical due to       warch 5, 1333. Central Governt meode
sources,                    the problem is only from coal              high rainfall and discharge levels.         Snviron.ntal Protection Rules 191S and
During coAl washing, the    washeries and unclarified mine             'Develop settling pands for face water      stanards for effluents were laid dcn in
effluents generated con-    discharge,                                 from new mines. Use voids as lagoons In   Scbedule Vt of Rule ]Ali). The tolerance
tain a lot of coal fines.   Uffects: Water is not potable  nd          old  ines.                                  limit for TS$ Is lOCog/l
* During transport by road.   natural water sources are effected.         'Coal washing plants to have closed
dust (fines) generated set-                                            circuit for mttluent treatent and to
tles In drainage channels,                                             use clarified water in the washing
* During monsoon, rain fall-                                             circuit to minimise replenishmnt water.
Ing an stocks und dumps washes                                         'Dust suppression on transport routes.
fines into water sources.                                              'Oarland/stor  water drains around coal                                                     u
stocks and waste daps.
o0"



Ehvwroauntal                   Underlying                           ifgnitude of                             technical solutionm                        Legal policy/
effects                       causes                           problem/idverse                            *co:! is mangeable                          provision
effects                                  *cost is high
2. Increase in oil and          Wasbhings  roe workshops.    Prblm of oil and grease In mine    X      fevelop settling pynds for sedimnt-       TM uaiu  tolernce level of
grease content.          * Oil and grease leakage        water is negligible, however washings    atlon of TSS.                                oil and  grease In ofti bent Is
froe  Achinery.              from workshops And effluent from          Install all and grease traps and           .20mgl.
Iffluentso ftce coal         washeries contain quantities which        allow top vater to be processed in them.
washery having froth         my exceed the limit of lmg/l.             Collect skixed all end grease in a
floatatlon oil.              Eftects: water unfit for dmetic          sall sump. when dry. dispose of it
and even agricultural uses.               in backfilled areas of mining voids.
1. Acid mine drainage. t        Acidity due to under/over   Only 7% of Indian mines have this          Treating acidic water with lire before    The pH tolerance limits ace 5.5-9.0.
lying strata (rocksl)        proble. Only one (Churcha west; of       discharge into natural sources.
Pyritli hand In coal         the subprojects has a mildly acidic
seam.                        discharge.
Effectst Acidic water corrodes metals,
dauaes vegetation in flow path until
diluted and makes water non-potable and
non-useable when acidity Is high.
4. Increase in biochem-      * Effluent from colonies        Problem is moderate with colony           'Soak pita mre designed to ce  letely      The tolerane liait for moo is .300gIl.
Ical oxygen demand lBODI.  contains biodegradable        effluents, since most water is guided    soak sewage - no effluent coes out.
materials,                  to wastelands and acts as biomanure.       "Treatsent of colony effluents if they                                                                °
Effluents from sewage        No preblem  from sewage effluents         are not within the tolerance limits and 
system.                      since soak pits are deslgned to           It they are to be discharged to bodies
handle the total sewase.                 of water.
5. Increase in chemical      * Coal wuhing effluents        Limited to coal washeries discharging   Wlshery effluents are to be treated ad    The tolerance liait for COO Is 250g/1.
oxygen demand (COD).        have a dense slurry In       dense slurry.                             coal fines recovered to reduce COD and
the form of coal fine.                                                bring It within standArs.
'Pecovery of fines tircugh the sediment-
ation and tloroculatlon In the slurry
managennt syste.
6. Increase in Iron.           Presence of pyrites or       Ptoblm  is limited to osl seam with    Aeration of the effluents converts             Tolerance limit for tron is 3mg/l.
other Iron ceon ts           pyritlo bands. Cven In these, the         ferrous to ferric which is precipitated
In the coal seas.           absorption of Iron into effluents         and can be removed. Hoever, effluents
does not exceed the limits.               Invariably seet the standards.
Effects: mtabolism disorders and
staining and weakening of teeth.
clothes, etc.
7. Increase in Nitrats.        luh off from coal            No problm  encountered. Main wash off    "Tretent of Nitrate is feasible by           Tolerace limlt for MD, is 45w1l.
stacks or waste dum.         occurn during monsoon when rai            denitrification througb use of xethyl      Tolerance limit for Nitrate Nitogen Is
dilutes effluents. Nitrate levels         Alcohol. searcb for other cheals Is         .10mg/1.                                        P
during other seasons are 12-15ag/.        ongoing, because this is cost prohibi-
Effects. Nitrate levels In water my      tive. However, no treatmnt is required                                                       w
affect fetus and young children.          In the mines.                                                                                    X



9 V
Environmental                  underlying                          Magnitude of                             Tchnical solutions                        ZagI policy/
effects                       causes                          probleoldv.rgs                             cost Is manageable                         provision
effects                                 "cost Is high
oise pgollution             * Drilling In coal uad           roblem is marginal outside work sone.   'Proper equipent design.                   Noise tolerac  linits are laid dema In
overburden 10(1.            Ambience Is affected only by transport   Proer mintenance of equipant.               Schedule III of lvirortatal Protection
* Blasting in 0D.              vehicles passing through habitats.       GAttenuats betwee  source end              Rules 119161. Coal India's policy is to
* operation of NW.             Effects: Annoyance and aniety and        receptor (e.g. strip of tree plantation). comply with the above provisios. gmn  high
* Operation of vorkshop,       hearing loam.                            'Divert haul roads away from habitats.   coct alternatives sy be consldered to
* Transport vehicles.                                                   "Construction of coal hanoling plant at  avoid the problem.
mine to stop transport through habitat.
Vibhatioen o etoud en        * Blasting in coal nd 0C.    Problm is marginal. Blasting Is             Blasting carried out under nrms for       Blasting proceoureIaeths are guided cy
tnretaen                                                    carried out with due consideration to   quantity of explosives and timing.          the Coal Nins legulatios IIS719 7on-
the distance of structures fro, site.     Blasting patterns and charges to be       trolled blasting is permitted 300. from
Effects. Psychological lear and cracks   fixed for specific situatigns.             structures. witbin lot permission from
if vibration is large.                   'Special blasting techniques for closer   Director General of Nine Safety is required
distances to contain vibrations.           and any conditions are coxpled with.
0pesettleent if no other option for
lnabltenta.
"drolow
1. Changes In watershed     * I val of 03.                 NAgnitude of problem Is mild to severe      Plarning to mantain the gnertal          No legal provisions against cauiSg changes
ad water courses.        * Domping of 0S  nd disturb-  depending on topography and coal-U        topography.                                 in watersheds. Diversion of premnial water
Ing surface contour. Voids  ratio. Plannd diversion will have        "Planning to maintain similar grand        courses (rivers). equir  clearance from
creAted affect watershed.   marginal poloblem.                       profile where feasible. hcwever cost        State Coverreots. fnvi:oiental Nakgnet
* Planned diversion of         Effects, changes In water table, dry-    Is prohibitive.                            Plans docuzl nt to Impact on hydrology and
water courses.              ing of part of natural water courses.    'Diversion of water courses,                coal Indias policy is to cceply with the
plovimloos of cleatance letters.
2. Roduction in water       * Changes in watershed an      Mining in a subsurface activity. This   Generally there Is an overall incrtese    No specific legal provisions except
flow,                      water courses.               involves dealirn  with Aubatface water  in water avaieble in coal mining azeu.  clearance of the operation by NInistry of
a Voids created alon  course  uad water entering  mine In moon                                                     fAvirorAnt and Forests.
reduce downstream flow,     season. Nines are required to pump
* Water utilisation by aIne   regularly to keep the wotkings dry.
reduces downstrem flow.
1. Changes in the water     * Excavation in opencast       Opencast mining my affect the water    *Puping water Into voids created              No legal provisions have bn laid dcr.
table.                     mines cuts across the        table up to 400/50m from the edge of   during  xcavation.                          T   operations are guided by condItlns of
water table.                the quarry. Underground mlnes have        "Partial extraction of coal. This          enviromntal clearac  letterx for
* Underground mining may       similar effects, but to a mch lesser    causes peranent loss of coal resner.    individual projects. Where village wells
cause cracks In overlying   degree depending on geomining condi-      but minomises effects on water table.      become dry due to mining. Coal India
strata and disturb the      tions and extraction smtk3d.              "Stowing/backfilling of voids under-       policy is to arrange water for the villag.
vwter table.                Effects: water lfyel in wells, ponds      ground to prevent cracks and
and bore wells are chnged                disturbnces.
1. Damge to aqulfer.           Opencast excavations snd    The problem is ImiLted to up to 500m    In underground mines, coal extractien        TM  operatimie are guided by the conditiou 
underground extraction      from the workings,                       is to be plamied to keep the aquifers      of envirometal clearace letters for
ope  aquifers to            Effects: open wells and bormwlls         undlsturbed. This results In pernet    individual projects.                                I3
unrestricted flow,          become dry  nd ground water quality      loss of large quantity of coal reserves.                           
in effect zone my be affected.                                                                                                      o



dovironmental                   Underlying                            magnitude of                              technical aolutlons                        Lgal policyl
effects                        causes                            probl/dverse                               *cost Is mnagoable                           prodsien s
effects                                  *cost is high
Lod
1. Formation of voids.        * Excavation of rocks and       Problem associated with all opencast       *lest solution say be to backtill
coal below the surface,      mines,                                     voids with waste - not feasible where
lffectsx  dsiage to land ud tlora,        Imor ess will be mined later.
2. Formation of waste         ' Ga rocks from opencest        Proble  Is acute if no backfillirng is    *1ackfilling part of the pit, convert-   No legal provisons exist. Operiatios are
heaps.                      mines,                        possible (due to gomining conditionsl   Ing pert of pit to water body nd                guided by eviroental clearance letters
Rejects from coal handling   otherwise it is emangem ble,               landscaping of the external duW.             which require: auximma hckfilling to
plant ad washeries.          Effects: degraded land and aesthetics,   Ecologically, this is an acceptable            reduce waste heaps. regrading of slopes
air and water pollution due to wind       solution,                                    and bioreclaation.
and rain corrosion, source of fires.
3. Tramsformation of          * To met the developetnt        Land selected for infrastructure is         Greenery developed in blocks, strips       only environmental clearance guides the
agricultural and allied     of infrastructure,            generally waste and poor quallty land    and on avenues in the built up aras,           actions. go lagal provisins exist.
lsnd uses into resl-                                      to minisise dasge to good lnd.
dentisl and industrial                                    Effectse green cover reduced, s*epage
areas,                                                    and recharging to ground water is re-
duced and lnd used for life of mine.
4. Subsidence.                  Extrection of coal by         Magnitude depends on geomining factors   'Partlal extraction  and backfilling          Governd by Coal Mines Reguletion 11571
underground mining,          and method of extraction.                  *"Filliog voids with Incomustible            which lay dem  norm  for Individual
Etffcts: daage to surface, built up       materials,                                   mthods of xtraction. Environmetal                           a
areas, aquifers and water table.          Leaving coal to support surface results    clearance also gives guidelines, especially
in permanent los' of reserves. After        It aquifers  xlt. These guidelires are                     N
ground movets havy  ceased, land can        project specific and no genral norms 
usually be returned to original state.      exist.
S. surface mine fires.        ' UIargroud fires travel    Acute where all problm  combine and            'Dosing and filling of surface cracks.      Governd by Coal Ninas Regulations.
to surface.                  if fire is old asd established. New        'Fires in coal stocks sre lemdiately         Enviroaental clearance letters my also
* Surface sses/stock'lvaste  fires are manageable.                         quenched                                    give guidelines on surface firms. Coal
dumps may catch fire.        Effects: air and soil pollutlon.           'Bioreclasation of waste dumps.              Indio's policy is to comply with the
H Fire in weds/dry vege-                                                   "Provide layer of soil over the fire        requiremts of snvlronxentAl clearances
tation on mine surface.                                                 area after dosing and filling crack'.        end Coal Nines Regulations.
loll
1. Mixing of organic         * when 0  Is rmoved, mining  with thin layer of soil. six up Is            'Separate equipment for soil winning,       No legal provisions exist. Environmental
sad inorganic strata,       of soil and rocks is to       acute, With thick layer ad space for    stacking and rehandling.                        clearanees provide guidelines for
sloe dgree inherent,         stacking, soil can be segregated.          'When mining and backtilling are sbul-    handlidg uA  use of top soil.
* If soil layer Is thin. it   Effects: soil loses fertility when           taneous, soil can be used for top layer
can not be segregated,       stacked for long period; bioreclas-        filling and problem is avoided.
If sufficient space for      atlon of luops is difficult when soil    "Separate stacking areas for top soil.
asperate stacking of soil   Is mixed with debris or buried in it.
is not available, mixing
with rocks occurs.
0
o 



avironmstael                    uderlying                            Magnitude of                            Technical solutions                        L.gal policy/
effects                       causJe                            probleh ladverse                          *cost Is  mnageable                         provisions
*ffaects                                 'cost la high
2. Saoil erosion from           Runoff from dump during      The problm is Inherent with external    'Bioreclaation of dimps at earliest           No logal provision exists. Environental
dumps.                      nmtoon lesson,               dumps.                                    possible time                               clearane letters guide the foralation
minor erosion by strong      Utfecta: loss of Soil from duops,         "Inlalmatton of external dumps in           anA reclaation of dumps These guidelines
winds In dry seasons.        siltation of water drainage syte          opancast mines by rebandling.               lay down slope angles nd priority for dump
,Provision of garlanA drains and                                                     reclamation.
mettling lagoons to prevent siltation
of water course.
1. Soil contmination            If effluents from mine or   Problem Is marginal, because most          Al effluents to be guided by peru-         Legal provision for treatment of etfluents
fro  oeffluent              washery vith high  SS5 are   effluents are guided into channels.        nt drinage Xyteus ad treated               exists and Is epolained in the section
discharge.                  left over the land areas    Ittectes pollution of Soil with            belore dlacharge to watter courmes          concerning witer pollution.
without proper channeling,   uspended solids                           re that top soil is not effected.
top soil is polluted.                                                  "Before discharge, effluent to be
treated for pollutant In addition to
disposal In channels.
4  Iterilisation due to         aurface mine fires or        froblm  is laute in older coalfields      'Dozing and leveling min  fire arues.        o leal provision exlts under the
mine fires.                 underground fires reaching  with large number of *ine fires            Then blanketing the leveled area with       invirooamtal Ptotection Act, fire
the surface.                (IJharia coalfield). The mines under       soil about In thick to prevent loss of      msnagnt is done under provisions of the
this proiect do not have this probles.   soil In surrounding areas.                  Coal Kines Regulations.
idesbioeta
1. TW  soLl sterillsation      Soil forrs top layer of 06  This problem in associated with open-    -Soil lanments to be addd when usirq    No legal provision exists. Good and
due to stacking,            over coal ssems, so it Is   cast mines where reuse of soil is          sterile soil,                               effective practises will be followed and
extracted and atacked for   delayed.                                   "Stacking to be avoided by using soil    the provisions of nmirorYntal clearanco
years before it in reused *ffects: Loss of microbiote and moil         elsewhere when feasible.                    letters will be coplied with.
in new mines. Because of    cannot support plant growth without        "Stacking in thin layers to avoid
stacking, mlcrobiota dies   soil axenAtentm. Loss of nutrients.        sterilisation.
and soil becomes sterile.
1.  Devegetation.              Hining and Infrastructure   froblm usociated with openast               'Haxiam  plantation in mine, colony        Legal provision uner Forest (Conservationl
dnvolopment. (liniq brings mining and, to a lesser extent.            ia  infrastructure areas.                    Act 119101. (Imandd in 1957 for cponsa-
Site specific activity and  underground mining.                        'forest land disturbed is reforested.       tory  f forentatio  in nor-fotest lanid. Act
inherently involves Saoe    Effects  Less of green cover, healthy      Compuatory afftorestation In non-          does not allow diversion of forest land
devegetation of forests.)   surroundings and forest product for        forest land equal to forest area            inolving noutuaries. parks, bioreserves
neighbouring comounity.                   disturbed to increase total forest          And senitive forest areu. Conditions laid
cover as early as possible,                dow in envirormental clearance are
'Emphasis on grasses, legumes and          complied with.
shrubs,
o
C s



Environmnteal                  Underlying                         HMgnitude of                             Technical solutions                       Legal policy/
effects                       causes                          probluu/dvrse                             *comt es mnageable                         provisions
offects                                 "cost Is high
V&Aa
1.  mpedinnta to            * Devegetation.               ftoblem is limited since forests are    'Reforestation of mined area.                 There Is no specific legal provision, but
migration.               a operation at sines           centiguous to mines ard guna can          Coapnatery forestation of contigwu        since format including perks. reserves.
easily migrate.                          non-forest lands to provide livin          sanctuaries and fragile ecology are not
3tfectst genoeal effect on ecology       spaes for fauna.                           rlelsed     fauna can be disturbed in such
due to migration of taun,                                                           zones. Provisions for tmediel actieo  are
included in envirocmental clearance.
2. Loss of habitat.         * Reduction of forest covur.  Problem is not appreciable because         'Increase forest cover to help             Igoe above)
fauna have migrated from degraded        rehbilitate fauna.
torest of the mine site to
contiguous forest.
Sources Coal ndia Ltd.
Pu
o B






