Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23743
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29860; SCL42260; COFN-04090; PPFB-P2260)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$532 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
COAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 28, 2002
SASEI
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
Rs. I = US$ 0.022
US$ I = Rs.44.86
FISCAL YEAR
April 1  March31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL            Adjustable Program Loan
BCCL           Bharat Coking Coal Limited
BIFR           Bureau of Industrial and Financial restructuring
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CSRP           Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project
CHP            Coal Handling Plants
CIL            Coal India Limited
CMNA           Coal Mines Nationalization Act
CMPDI          Central Mine Planning and Design Institute
CPRA           Coal Price Regulation Account
CRISIL         Credit Rating Information Services of India Limited
EAP            Environrnental Action Plans
ECL            Eastern Coalfields Limited
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
GOI            Government of India
HEMM           Heavy Earth Moving Equipment
IICM           Indian Institute of Coal Management
JBIC           Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JBICC          Joint Bi-partite Committee for Coal Industry
JEXIM          Export-Import Bank of Japan
NPV            Net Present Value
OGL            Open General License
LMC            Loss Making Companies
MOC            Ministry of Coal
PAP            Project-Affected Persons
RAP            Rehabilitation Action Plans
R&R            Resettlement and Rehabilitation
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SEBs           State Electricity Boards
TA             Technical Assistance
VRS            Voluntary Retirement Schemes
WBPD           World Bank Projects Division
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:     Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Penelope Brook
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Charles Husband



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
COAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                12
6. Sustainability                                                                    14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   17
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009979                                      Project Name: Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Charles A. Husband                          TL Unit: CMNPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: May 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project            L/C/TF Number: IDA-29860;
SCL-42260;
COFN-04090;
PPFB-P2260
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: NN - Mining & Other Extractive
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/30/1993                             Effective:                   06/17/1998
Appraisal:  07/14/1997                               MTR: 01/01/2000            02/01/1999
Approval:  09/09/1997                             Closing: 06/30/2003          07/25/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: CIL/CIL
Other Partners: Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                 Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Penelope J. Brook                         Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:  Charles A. Husband                        Hiroaki Suzuki
ICR Primary Author:  Charles Husband; Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project (CSRP) were to support the market-oriented reforms
India was undertaking in the coal sector, and specifically to provide financial and technical support to Coal India



Limited's (CIL) efforts to make itself commercially viable and self-sustaining. The project also aimed to increase
productivity and domestic supplies of coal, by financing investment in 24 of the most profitable opencast mines of
CIL until imports and production from private sector investments could fill the emerging supply gap.
The first main objective of supporting market-oriented reforms in India, although explicitly defined during project
preparation, was not adequately reflected in the legal agreements, especially in terms of coal sector policy reforms.
The project overestimated the Government of India's (GOI) ability to undertake major sectoral reform, corporate
restructuring and significant labor reductions in the context of the prevailing political instability, trade union
resistance, and potential social unrest in the coalfields in the wake of such a reform. The second objective of
increasing domestic supplies of coal was, however, clear, realistic, and achievable.
Both objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board on
June 20, 1995 which emphasized continued Bank support to India on: (i) the reform of key sectors of its economy;
(ii) the rationalization of energy policy; (iii) the reform of public sector enterprises; (iv) the enhancement of the
social and environmental sustainability of the government's investment program; and (v) the improvement of
environmental protection.
The project was important for the sector and the country because India needed additional energy in order to power
its economic growth and coal was the least-cost option for base-load power generation in India. The Bank's
involvement in this project was relevant, particularly since the project was large and complex and included sector
reforms, corporate restructuring, and environmental and social mitigation activities. The sector knowledge and
experience that the Bank had acquired through five previous lending operations with CIL', as well as extensive
policy dialogue on sector reforms was expected to enable the Bank to effectively assist the government and CIL in
implementing a comprehensive strategic approach which the project required. Given the large financing
requirement and the fact that the CIL's productive capacity and financial health depended upon the expeditious
implementation of the proposed reforms, restructuring and investment, only the Bank, in partnership with its
co-financier, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), formerly Export-Import Bank of Japan
(JEXIM), had the resources to finance the project.
The project envisioned several benefits to India, which included: (a) further promotion of deregulation of price and
coal distribution, and opening of the sector to private investors; (b) transformation of CIL into a commercially
oriented, viable and financially self-sustaining coal company; (c) safeguarding the government's broader economic
reforms by underpinning India's capacity to supply the coal needs of the power sector and other industries until
imports and production from private investments could fill the emerging supply gap; (d) supporting coal industry
reforms by helping, inter alia, to attract financing from bilateral donors; and (e) contributing to the improvement
of coal quality by assisting CIL to introduce selective mining methods and to develop coal supply contracts with the
incentives to produce better quality coals.
The project was responsive to the needs of the Borrower. It was designed to meet their need to selectively upgrade
their technology, respond to the rising demand for coal in India, and stem the operating losses of a number of
subsidiary companies of CIL.
The project was demanding and complex for both GOI and CIL because of the sector reforms; magnitude of
investment; extent of corporate restructuring including labor rationalization; and interaction with the requirements
of environmental and social mitigation programs arising from the cross-conditionalities between this project and
Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project (CSESMP).
I The,five previous projects were Dudhichua Coal Project (Loan 2393-IN); Jharia Coalfleld Project (Loan 2498-IN); Coal Mining Coal Quality
Improvement Project (Loan 2796-IN); iharia Coalfield Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2450-IN); and Coal Sector Environmental and
Social Mitigation Project (Loan 2862-IN)
-2 -



It was demanding and complex to the GOI because the reforms involved amendment of the Coal Mines
Nationalization Act (CMNA) of 1973 by the Parliament, primarily to attract private sector investment in the face
of extensive resistance and potential political cost to the government; a revision of the coal sector's legal and
regulatory environment; and changes to the government/CIL's environmental, resettlement and rehabilitation
(R&R) policies, and involuntary resettlement of more than 10,000 Project-Affected Persons (PAPs) arising from
the project's cross-conditionality with CSESMP.
For CIL, the project was demanding and complex because it involved major investment programs extending over
24 individual projects, six subsidiary companies, and five States (now six States). It was also demanding because
the restructuring and corporatization of CIL and its subsidiaries required extensive staff redundancies and
voluntary retirement schemes (VRS) in the face of resistance from employees and regional trade unions.
The project, however, was able to take into account the lessons learned from previous loans to CIL and other coal
projects in India and to incorporate them into the project design. The project also recognized and took into account
the following three major risk factors which could affect the implementation of the investment and TA components
of the project, viz.:
*   potential delays in implementing sector reforms arising from central-state government issues; resistance from
various political groups and labor unions to opening the sector to private investors; and absence of clear
transparent procedures to provide access to mineral resources and selection of licensees. During appraisal it
was assumed that these obstacles would not in the short- to medium-term affect the financial and economic
viability of the project nor the financial performance or viability of CIL. Even though sector reform and
amendment of CMNA were not realized, liberalization of distribution and sale of coal was implemented which
enhanced the economic viability of CIL:
*   delays in implementing CSESMP because of the refusal of PAP to relocate to resettlement sites, and lack of
adequate experience on the part of CIL and its subsidiaries in the implementation of Rehabilitation Action
Plans (RAPs). In order to address this issue, beyond agreements under CSESMP, CIL had agreed to reinforce
its capacity to deal with the social issues by engaging facilitating NGOs to assist with RAP and IPDP
implementation, appointing additional R&R and community development staff and reinforcing their training.
After a delay of 18 months from the date of effectiveness, the Borrower began the implementation towards the
end of 1997. Progress during 1998 and 1999 was however both slow and uneven across the 25 mine sites.
Significant implementation progress began only in the first half of 2000. But economic rehabilitation and
income restoration was still unsatisfactory.
*   delays in restructuring Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) and Eastern Coafields Limited (ECL), was
addressed by the government agreeing to provide Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) grants, and using
dividend revenues from CIL to cover BCCL and ECL's financial losses, limited capital expenditure
requirements or closure costs according to the Bureau of Industrial and Financial Restructuring (BIFR) rules.
Despite better than expected reductions in surplus labor, bold and decisive actions were not implemented and
both BCCL and ECL together with CCL continued to decline and undermine the viability of CIL.
At the time of appraisal the Bank's Operation Committee and the South Asia Region debated in depth the issues
on the amendment to CMNA and the completion of the regulatory study by the GOI and finally approved the
project in light of the following favorable key factors: (i) GOI had demonstrated its commitment to coal sector
reforms and implicitly indicated its policy on sector development by adopting in February 1997 the Chari
Committee Report which recommended amongst other things opening up a number of undeveloped blocks to
competitive bidding by both national and private companies; immediately liberalizing coal prices of new mines and
phasing in price liberalization for existing mines; and setting up an appropriate regulatory framework; (ii) Coal
was the least-cost option available for base-load power generation, thereby addressing India's increasing energy
shortage; and (iii) CIL was financially weak and faced huge investment requirements in the absence of GOI
budgetary support that had been phased out and discontinued in the early 1990s.
- 3 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised two components that were balanced and geared to achieving project objectives. The
Investment Component was aimed at increasing domestic supplies of coal. The TA and Training Component
involved revising legal and regulatory environment of the coal sector; relaxing import restrictions; abolishing
supply linkages; and making mines more profitable by addressing systemic revenue arrears, restructuring CIL and
supporting turn-around plans for both ECL and BCCL.
The institutional capacity of MOC and CIL as the implementing agencies was reasonably strong. For the
Investment Component, CIL set up a dedicated World Bank Projects Division (WBPD) within CIL with competent
and technically qualified staff supported by an international consulting firm for the duration of the project.
The project consisted of the following components:
(A) Investment Component.
This component involved high-return and quick-disbursing investments to maintain or improve the profitability of
the 24 existing project mines in the east and central India. The Bank financed the cost of a large fleet of heavy
earth-moving equipment (HEMM) for replacement at 15 mines, for expansion at six mines, and for completion of
construction-in-progress at three mines. Because of the emphasis on quick investment returns, no greenfield
projects were included; it was estimated that by 2001/02, the project mines would produce about 106 million tons
of coal per year including added production of 13.4 million tons. The projects were selected on the following
criteria: sufficient reserves; high productivity; short implementation period; limited environmental impacts;
minimal resettlement requirements; and a minimum financial rate of return of 16% per annum.
(B) Technical Assistance and Training Component.
This component included technical assistance (TA) and training to support the sector reform program and to
strengthen CIL's institutional capacity for the project implementation, mine management operations, as well as its
major restructuring and corporatization programs. These comprised:
* Policy Support
Rationalization of rules and regulations of the coal industry. The project provided TA to review the coal
industry's regulatory system and recommend a more suitable regulatory framework based on international best
practice.
*   Institution Building
Commercialization of coal sales to provide assistance to CIL in commercializing its coal sales, particularly in
improving their tender method and developing coal supply contracts.
Improvement of Central Mine Planning and Design Institute's (CMPDI) design to review existing mine
design and practices within CIL and recommend a time-bound program to improve them.
Improvement of corporatefinancial planning and implementation of the restructuring process was aimed at
enhancing CIL's capability in implementing its restructuring program and preparing financial models as part
of its ongoing commercialization process and to enable the company to access and borrow from international
financial markets.
-4 -



Trainingfor CIL's middle and senior level managers, at different national management institutes in order to
familiarize them with the principles and techniques of managing commercial operations.
Improvement in equipment utilization sub-component consisted of a review by a panel of mining and other
engineers and management experts of CIL's operations to identify activities that could be contracted out to
realize efficiency and cost saving.
*   Proiect Implementation
Procurement assistance to assist CIL in the preparation of bid documents and technical review.
Coal quality improvement included a feasibility study to pilot selective mining techniques at four sites under
different geological and mining conditions and identifying the required equipment.
Assistance in project supervision. The project financed a team of local consultants with requisite experience in
opencast mining operations to visit all the mines at least once in every quarter and submit an independent
report on project programs to the Bank and CIL.
Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project (Project ID: P0433 10)
The two projects, CSRP and CSESMP, were initially conceived as one to include both investment in coal mine
reform and expansion, and the mitigation of the resulting environmental and social impacts. However, given the
environmental and social impact of the project, and the scale and complexity of the mitigation measures, CIL and
the Bank decided in November 1995 to address these, in advance, in a free-standing project. In May 1996 the
Bank approved an IDA Credit of US$63 million to finance CSESMP, which became effective in July 1996, over
two years earlier than the CSRP. CSESMP was launched earlier with the goal of providing time for CIL to
establish the required capacity for environmental and social mitigation, and also to enable the Bank to assess the
project's implementation progress prior to the negotiations for the CSRP. (Refer Section 10 for additional
information on details of CSESMP)
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory. The project was awarded the Bank Managing Director's Quality at Entry Award in 1997 in
recognition of its detailed and comprehensive approach towards policy reforms, coal sector investment,
environmental and social issues, and unique concept of cross-conditionalities with CSESMP.
The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the government's priorities, it took appropriate account of
the Bank's Safeguard Policies, and met the critical needs of the coal sector. Lessons learned from earlier coal
sector projects in India as well as the major risk factors, which could affect project implementation were considered
and incorporated into the project design. The project design separated the environmental and social aspects from
the main project, created a separate free-standing investment project, and linked both projects together through
effective cross-conditionalities. Consequently, the approval of the CSRP project was subject to satisfactory
implementation of the CSESMP. The Borrower had to be in compliance with all obligations under the CSESMP
legal agreements and the additional obligations relating to environment and social mitigation that were set out in
the Loan Agreement of the CSRP.
Nonetheless, it is apparent that insufficient attention was given to securing, prior to loan approval, the legislative
changes to the Coal Mines Nationalization Act and regulatory amendments that underpinned critical sector
reforms of the project. The Bank did not properly assess or grossly under estimated the degree of political and
- 5-



social resistance to the reforms and relied more on government assurances and dated covenants which ultimately
proved to be inadequate and no substitute for upfront action. At the very least the policy reforms should have been
more clearly defined in the SAR, articulated in a formal Letter of Development Policy recording government's
sector policy, and explicitly reflected in the legal agreements. These institutional failures resulted in
implementation difficulties almost from the start and led directly to the ongoing delays in opening of the sector to
private investment (beyond captive mining), evolution of a competitive environment and achievement of the
developmental objective of the project. The ICR therefore finds the quality of entry to be unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's physical (investment) objective of increasing CIL coal production through rehabilitation and/or
expansion of 24 mine sub-projects was, in aggregate, achieved ahead of schedule. The physical targets for
individual sub-projects varied, some well exceeding planned levels of coal production, while others are still
building up to full output. Nonetheless, all individual sub-project are expected to meet or exceed planned coal
production levels within the next 18 months.
Another outcome of the project was the liberalization of pricing and distribution for all categories of coal in
January 2000. Accordingly, CIL has been free to set prices of deregulated coal according to the market forces, and
the prices of washed coal (both Coking and Non Coking) are being fixed by the subsidiary companies. Coal is also
presently freely imported by anyone under open general license (OGL).
The project facilitated CIL reforming and restructuring its operations to the extent that its subsidiaries became
largely financially independent and autonomous companies, improving their productivity; competing with each
other; and fixing their own prices according to market demands. The project also supported CIL's decision to do
away with the existing systems of linkage/sponsorship and take a new policy initiative for non-core sector.
Subsidiary companies are also authorized to sell their entire quantity of coal and coal products after meeting the
requirements of the core sector, to the non-core sector customers. In addition, the project eliminated the automatic
cross-subsidization of loss-making activities through Coal Price Regulation Account (CPRA) pricing mechanism
between subsidiaries and even collieries as a natural consequence of coal price liberalization.
Owing to unsatisfactory performance on coal sector reform; a reversal of the policy of reducing import duties on
coal; the financial deterioration beyond covenanted limits under the CSRP; and difficulties with economic
rehabilitation and income restoration under the CSESMP, the Bank advised the Ministry of Coal (MOC) and CIL
in January 2000 that it was considering applying legal remedies and moving towards suspension in the event that
these issues were not addressed. As the issues remained unresolved after extensive discussion, the Bank proposed
two options to the government comprising: (i) if GOI could achieve compliance within a reasonable period of time
with the covenanted actions under the two projects in the near term, the Bank would suspend the CSRP Loan,
reinstating it when compliance was achieved; or (ii) if GOI assessed that compliance could not be achieved, they
should request cancellation of the balance of the CSRP Loan. In July 2000, GOI and CIL requested cancellation of
the un-disbursed balance of the Loan and Credit. The reasons and the background for such an outcome are
described below:
Sector Reform. The amendment of the CMNA was an essential legislative measure to enable the
participation of the private sector in the development of new non-captive coal mines and also in any
divestment that CIL would undertake as part of the restructuring of its loss-making subsidiaries. GOI in its
Supplemental Letter to the CSRP Loan Agreement had committed itself to submit the draft amendment to the
CMNA to Parliament by December 31, 1997. Despite the Bank's repeated attempts to emphasize the
importance of this amendment, there was inordinate delay on the part of the GOI to submit it to the
Parliament. The draft was finally submitted to the Parliament in April 2000, and was subsequently referred to
the Standing Committee on Industry of Parliament and thereafter to the Standing Committee on Energy. After
project closure, the GOI however did continue its efforts to submit the bill to Parliament and was prepared to
withstand intense trade union pressure to withdraw the bill and endured a three day general strike in
December 2001. Nonetheless, the difficulties in securing these reforms are apparent and further delays can be
- 6 -



anticipated.
Regulatory Framework. This important policy TA was designed to provide the critical foundation for coal
sector reform to encourage the introduction of private sector interests in the coal sector and create enhanced
competition between coal producers within India. Although the detailed TOR and its underlying fundamental
philosophies were agreed at loan negotiations and reflected in loan and credit agreements as a precursor to
continuing Bank support to CIL, GOI showed limited interest in engaging with international/local consultants
and played a minor role in the development of its findings and recommendations. The study was completed
well behind schedule due to procurement misunderstandings, delays and general lack of cooperation. Even
though DOC had agreed to submit a time-bound action plan for the implementation of a new regulatory
framework by June 30, 2000, it was never submitted by DOC to the Bank. A paper on national coal policy was
however prepared by DOC but remains under consideration by GOI.
Restructuring of BCCL and ECL. Despite the initial capital restructuring, CIL failed to take the bold
measures needed to restore the financial viability of its loss making subsidiaries, BCCL and ECL in spite of
repeated representations by the Bank. These together with CCL have now completely eroded their equity base
and have all been referred to the BIFR for restructuring or closure under the Sick Companies Act of 1985.
Despite various plans which remain under consideration by GOI/CIL and a 17% reduction in excess labor
since 1998, these companies continue to drain scarce resources from other parts of the group and undermine
CIL's ability to sustain its operations.
Lower than expected demandfor coal. Most of the expected additions to power generation capacity did
not materialize due to the slow pace of the power sector reforms, and as a result, demand for coal began to
decline. In addition, a slow down in industrial demand combined with the availability of imported Indonesian
coal at comparable or cheaper prices than domestic coal, especially in the coastal areas, affected the demand
for coal from cement plants and other industrial users. Consequently, the actual demand was only 311.0
million tons in 1996/97 and 354.3 million tons in 2001/02 compared with 332.7 million tons and 513 million
tons respectively in the SAR. Likewise, while the SAR estimated the gap in coal supply would be 44.0 million
tons in 1996/97 and 128.0 million tons in 2001/02, the actual gap for these years were only 15.9 and 25.46
million tons respectively. In light of these developments, a downward revision of capital requirements due to
outsourcing, better maintenance and operating performance, and savings realized on phase A procurements,
CIL no longer needed external finance to support the procurement of equipment scheduled for the Phase B of
the project.
In July 2000, the Bank cancelled the un-disbursed balance the CSRP Loan and in January 2001 the un-disbursed
balance of the CSRP Credit was cancelled. While the loan account remains technically open to allow for the
disbursements under the special commitments given by the Bank (about US$37 million), the project has been
"de-activated" and is no longer listed as an active project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(A) Investment Component.
(Satisfactory). The objective of increasing coal production at the sub-projects by 13.4 million tones per year to a
level of 105.95 in 2002 was achieved by end 2001 with an increased output of 17.85 million tones and a total
sub-project production of 112.83 million tones coal. The output of individual CIL subsidiary sub-projects was
generally satisfactory (exceeding plan) although the 3 sub-projects at CCL are not expected to meet planned
production targets until 2002/3. It is evident from the table below that from 1996 - 2001 Coal India (CIL)
successfully
* increased production (by 31 million tons per year - 13%);
* reduced employment (by 87,000 workers -14%) and
* increased labor productivity (by 0.5 tons per man shift - 28%).
- 7 -



These are substantial accomplishments and, despite more modest gains in the financial performance, the
objectives of the investment component were realized by CIL.
Key consolidated statistics of CIL for the period 1996-2001 are given below:
___|  __|Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual    SAR
1996   1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2001
Production                 Mill tons  237.3  250.6   260.6  256.5  260.6  268.1  289.9
Coal Prices                Rs/ton      441    530    588     600    629    652    739
Production Cost            Rs/ton      442    497    545     573    617    726    504
Labor Cost                 Rs/ton      211    215    230    239    266     380    245
Profit/(loss)              Rs billion  (14.1)  6.9   14.5   18.0   11.4    6.1    25.2
Employment                 # 000's     639    632    620    599     574    552    594
Productivity               OMS         1.8    1.9     1.9    2.0    2.1    2.3      n/a
Capacity                   %                    n/a  91.9   88.3   87.5   85.7    88.3
Utilization                            n/a
Capital                    Rs billion  15.5   13.3   16.3   15.9   28.8    7.6    35.7
Expenditure
Debt                       Rs billion  61.6   61.4   55.9   63.6   70.5   63.2    61.1
Equity                     Rs billion  49.9   54.2   59.2   64.3   61.4   39.4   117.6
Receivables                months      2.4    2.3     2.6    3.1    3.0    3.3    1.4
Source: CIL Annual Reports
wB Staff Appraisal Report.
For practical purposes, procurement for the project was split into two phases to ensure that equipment
manufacturers could handle the very large equipment orders in a phased and timely manner. At the time of loan
cancellation, Phase A equipment contracts had been awarded. Phase B requirements were revised downwards and
rescheduled somewhat to reflect lower equipment capacity utilization (and hence longer life of existing equipment
due to reduced coal demand), better than expected operating performance of the HEMM, outsourcing of
overburden removal and other operational activities, and greater use of hired HEMM. Capital equipment
requirements have been reassessed and are being sourced from domestic suppliers under CIL procurement
procedures. The second procurement phase will be important at many sub-projects to ensure that coal production
levels attained can be maintained and that the sustainability of the sub-projects and their cumulative coal
production is secured.
Works of some US$160 million, comprising mainly four coal handling plants (CHPs), were not initated under the
project. Of the four CHPs, two (Hesalong and Parej East) were no longer required and were dropped from the
project prior to closure. Planned procurement of the remaining two coal handling plants at NCL's Dudhichua and
Nigahi mines was under preparation for ICB at the time of loan cancellation. These are now being procured from
internal resources according to CIL procurement procedures and are in an advanced stage of preparation. In a
similar manner, outstanding procurement packages relating to truck dispatch systems and telecommunications
packages were revised subsequent to loan cancellation and are being financed by CIL and procured under in-house
procurement procedures.
(B). Technical Assistance and Training Component.
(Unsatisfactory). The project design provided for nine technical assistance/training sub-components (estimated
cost US$14 million) covering policy, institutional development and project implementation. The level and extent
of TA/training was substantial by any project standards. Generally speaking, the TOR for individual study
programs was developed as a cooperative effort between Bank staff and GOI/CIL and the TA design was to a large
- 8-



extent appropriate. With the loan cancellation coinciding approximately with the conclusion of the TA programs,
Bank staff were unable, with the exception of the policy (legal/regulatory) study, to review the implementation of
domestic/international consultant findings and recommendations. Consequently, achievements realized by the TA
cannot be specified with any degree of certainty. Performance indicators related primarily to the conclusion of the
consultant TA work programs, however, were largely achieved.
Regulatory Framework Study. The final report of the Study was completed and submitted by the
consultants in April, 2000. GOI has not formulated a time bound action plan nor taken any follow-up action
on these recommendations and in this sense, the policy TA has been unsatisfactory, a key factor leading to
loan cancellation.
Improvement of CMPDI Design Practices. Much of the historical design practices of CMPDI was rooted
in Soviet mining practices and centered on CIL operations and planning requirements. The program,
completed by international consultants, exposed CMPDI to best practice through international visits,
modernized CIL's' mine planning concepts and explored ways in which CMPDI could better position itself for
international consulting assignments. Although the TA design was most appropriate, CIL did not accept all
the consultant findings and recommendations and formed a committee to selectively implement the
recommendations.
Institutional Development. Bank staff prepared TOR for this important institutional development during
the early stages of project implementation but the scope of work was never fully agreed, nor finalized by CIL
and the study was not launched. CIL felt that the TOR did not adequately address the need for evolving a
commercially oriented Corporate Plan based on realistic demand and economic price projections.
Consequently CIL decided to substitute this component with two separate studies covering strategic planning
and demand/pricing aspects for which two consulting firms were engaged by CIL out of its own resources. As
a result of these changes and delays in implementation, CIL has not yet transformed itself into a fully
commercialized, cost-driven enterprise capable of operating successfully in a liberalized and competitive
environment.
Training of CIL Managers. The Bank staff prepared TOR for this program and after reaching agreement
on the scope with CIL staff, RFPs were issued, proposals received and evaluated, and a preferred
international/domestic consultant consortium was identified. However, in final discussion with CIL
management, there remained issues regarding the role of CIL's Human Resources Department, and the
definition of "managers". The contract was not signed and after loan cancellation, the component was revised
and implemented by the Indian Institute of Coal Management (IICM), an in-house training unit located at
Ranchi. The institute imparts training on modules evolved by them to various participants selected from the
managerial ranks across CIL subsidiaries.
Coal Sales Agreements. This component aimed to assist CIL to develop commercial coal sales
agreements with its customers based on international best practices and standards. By the time of loan
signing, CIL had solicited the inputs of a reputable international consultant, who assisted the company to
draft sales contracts with all key customers. These arrangements were reviewed by the Bank staff and found to
be satisfactory. The commercial arrangements between CIL and its customers are now much more closely
aligned with international best practices and are considered acceptable.
In relation to project implementation, there were four TA components:
Procurement and Mine Design Optimization. During project preparation, CIL, under a Bank-funded PPF,
signed a contract in 1993 with international consultants to review equipment packages required for the
rehabilitation/expansion/development of the 24 sub-projects and at Loan signing, this TA was subsequently
incorporated into the CSRP project. The scope of work was well designed and provided excellent assistance
over a number of years and ensured that equipment packages were individually optimized for each sub-project
and that bid documents were prepared, reviewed and evaluated and contracts awarded according to guidelines.
-9-



Although procurement processing was streamlined, there were periodic delays, mainly of a bureaucratic
nature. Nevertheless, it is considered that procurement was handled in a very well organized and effective
manner, with few major disputes between the Bank and GOI/CIL. The consultant completed the procurement
for phase A and all equipment specifications for phase B and the contract was terminated in July 2000, even
though further procurement was to be undertaken.
Local Supervision. At the outset it was recognized that with 24 geographically spread mine sub-projects,
the Bank staff could not effectively monitor project implementation at all mines. Consequently local
consultants were hired (under an extension to an existing CSESMP supervision contract) to prepare quarterly
supervision reports to assist Bank supervision. The design for this purpose was most appropriate and the local
consultant reports proved invaluable to the Bank supervision mission in quickly grasping project
implementation-related issues that required attention. After loan cancellation this local supervision was
discontinued and is now being undertaken by CIL at the risk of a potential lack of independence.
CIL Operations. This TA involved international consultants reviewing all CIL mine operations and
maintenance procedures to bring them to a level of international best practices and standards. The study was
completed but the findings/conclusions were not reviewed by the Bank staff due to limited technical
supervision resources in 2000/2001 prior to Loan cancellation. It is understood that some agreements were
reached in terms of upgrading operations and maintenance practices in order to increase efficiency and reduce
costs but others were more contentious and appeared to conflict with the certain mining regulations and CIL's
operational practice. As a result, although the design was appropriate, its achievements were more limited.
Selective Mining. In light of the high ash content of Indian coal and the frequent presence of shale bands
within certain coal seams, the development/design of TOR to consider the options for selective mining to
improve the coal quality is considered to be very appropriate. The study program was designed in phases to
identify mines where selective mining could be employed, determine and procure appropriate equipment to
carry out selective mining, and implement a series of four pilot projects to undertake, monitor and test the
benefits of selective mining. International consultants were contracted and they completed the first phase
effectively. Loan cancellation occurred shortly thereafter and selective mining equipment was not procured
nor was there any specific plan to complete the consultant work program or to introduce selective mining into
CIL operations on a phased or organized basis. Nevertheless CIL's subsidiaries were requested to consider
implementing at their own cost any and all identified opportunities for selective mining. MCL has taken the
lead and undertaken selective mining at two projects with encouraging results that could be replicated
elsewhere.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
For economic evaluation purposes the expected net present value (NPV) was used as a criteria for acceptability.
The NPVs have been calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit streams associated with each of the
24 project mines. In addition to the variable costs and capital costs, project specific environmental and social
mitigation costs have been taken into account in the economic evaluation of the project and were derived from the
CSESMP Project. Costs were adjusted for taxes and duties, and standard conversion factors applied to convert
financial cost into economic cost. Economic benefits are based on incremental coal production valued at either the
imported price of Australian coal for tradable coal or long-run marginal cost for non tradable coal, appropriately
adjusted for quality, to reflect consumer's willingness to pay.
In aggregate, the project yielded a positive expected economic NPV of US$593 million, at 16% discount rate. With
the exception of CCL's K.D. Hesalong mine for which benefits could not be quantified, the investments in all the
remaining 23 mines included in the project yielded economic rates of return in excess of 16% per year. Investments
in K.D. Hesalong mainly supported equipment such as cranes, and motor grader for which no assessment of
incremental production could be made. At appraisal, it was envisaged that in addition to supporting equipment,
investments would also be made in productive equipment such as shovels and dumpers, which did not materialize.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
- 10 -



The overall financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated to be 55% p.a. The project as a whole yielded positive
expected financial NPV of US$397 million, at 16% discount rate. As in the case of economic analysis, the financial
analysis of K.D. Hesalong was not carried out because incremental output associated with the investment could not
be quantified. The financial analysis was carried out on the basis of incremental costs and benefits. The major
variables affecting the cash flows included the capital cost, operating cost, annual production and the selling price
of coal.
Four observations are noted:
* The economic and financial NPVs are estimated to be lower than the expected values estimated at appraisal.
The main reasons are: less than anticipated increase in output and lower investments as a result of the
cancellation of the uncommitted portion of the loan; higher then expected operating costs; and lower than
anticipated grade of coal extracted in the case of a few mines e.g. Paraj East.
*   Even though, the economic and financial NPVs are lower than those estimated at appraisal, NPVs are still
positive. The reasons relate to the nature of the investment project. A large number of the mine sub-projects
are characterized by investments with short gestation periods in profitable mines involving one or a
combination of the following efforts: the removal of bottlenecks to efficient and profitable operation and
replacement of worn equipment. In addition, expansion of mining operations in well performing mines, and
opening of new mines are also included.
*   The difference between the economic and financial NPVs has decreased. This is mainly due to the narrowing
of the differential between the economic and the financial prices. At appraisal, financial benefits were
evaluated on the basis of administrative prices of coals of different grade, which were significantly lower than
economic prices. Since then, coal prices have been deregulated, narrowing the gap between the economic and
financial prices.
*   While investments in the specific coal mines supported under CSRP are financially and economically viable,
the long-term sustainability of the Coal sector depends on factors well beyond output increases. Policy,
regulatory and institutional reforn aimed at improving efficiency, promoting competition by opening up
imports and private sector participation, and a continued growth in the demand for coal in India are critical for
long-term sustainability.
The results of the financial and economic analysis of each of the 24 mine projects; and the underlying assumptions
are presented in Annex 3.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
(Modest). CIL has reformed and restructured itself to the extent that each subsidiary: became a financially
independent and autonomous company; now regulate, control and account for all inter-company transfers and,
together, have maintained the ihtegrity of CIL's corporatization program; have improved productivity; and to a
large extent are competing with each other and setting their own prices, in consultation with CIL, in line with
market demands. Nonetheless, these companies remain in the public sector and are owned and controlled by the
central government. CIL has been unsuccessful in restoring ECL, BCCL and more latterly CCL, to profitability
and in reducing the influence and impact of the holding company. At the time the project was de-activated, CIL
still retained its status as a monopolistic enterprise.
There was negligible institutional development impact at the MOC since there was never any intention to make
changes in the way the sector was administered.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S.l Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
-1 1-



The lack of political continuity and instability at the central government level made it difficult for GOI to move
ahead with sector reforms. Since the coalition government consisted of about ten parties with only a small
majority, the government's commitment to these reforms was undermined and it became extremely difficult to get
the CMNA Amendment passed by the Parliament. Administration of central and state governments aligned to
different parties and the resulting disputes between them also had adverse impact on project implementation. For
instance, without the active support of the state administration, it was difficult to formulate, agree and implement
the tum-around plans for ECL, BCCL and CCL.
Pressure from trade unions opposed to staff adjustments had a severe effect on project implementation. Closing of
loss-making mines was difficult without the support of workers and trade unions. Specifically, since CIL had
traditionally entered into successive Joint Bi-partite Committee for Coal Industry (JBICC) labor agreements with
the coal sector unions which covered all mines in all the districts and states, any labor problem and/or
management action in one mine had a direct and imrnmediate impact on all other group mines. In addition, since
public sector enterprises in India do not have the tradition of retrenching their employees, it was difficult for CIL to
eliminate loss making activities and implement its staff reductions to the extent that proved necessary.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
For the reasons mentioned earlier there was a general lack of responsiveness on the part of GOI to actively push for
sector reforms. Coal sector reform continued to suffer from delays, in particular regarding the submission of
legislation to facilitate private sector participation in India's coal sector. Even though the Ministry of Coal (MOC)
had reiterated with force and clarity that the government was committed to continue the implementation of the coal
sector reforrn, GOI never succeeded in implementing these sector reforms. This was reflected in the
commissioning of the regulatory study which was inordinately delayed and implementation of its
recommendations which were indefinitely deferred.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(i) Financial aspects. Delays on the part of CIL in addressing financial problems of its loss-making subsidiaries,
ECL, BCCL, and CCL, has undermined the viability of CIL. CIL continues to use the dividend income from group
companies to pay their debt service obligations, subsidize their losses and finance part of their investment
requirements. In 2000-2001 this amounted to Rs5.7 billion, draining CIL of liquidity, diverting resources from
productive investment, reducing its capacity to obtain commercial credits and limiting its flexibility to sustain its
operations. In 2000-2001, CIL's aggregate debt to capitalization ratio deteriorated to 60% against the SAR
estimate of 37%.
(ii) Accounts Receivable of cIL. Despite CIL's efforts in supplying coal only against prepaymnents or letters of
credit, securitization of coal dues and long-term supply agreements, Account Receivables were 2.63 months in
1998, 3.12 months 1999, 3.04 months in 2000, and 3.29 months in 2001, compared to a performance indicator of
1.4 months for all these years. Despite ongoing consultations with all levels of government, CIL has yet to reach a
meaningful agreement with any of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) on a progressive reduction in outstanding
arrears.
(iii) Corporatization Program. The corporatization program as conceived at appraisal has been successfully
maintained by CIL to restrict and regulate the financial flows between CIL and its subsidiaries. Support provided
to the Loss Making Companies (LMCs) is declining and is within the dividend receipts of CIL from its more
profitable subsidiaries. These dividends payments are consistent with the original dividend policy adopted by the
Board and agreed with the Bank i.e. 40% of profit after tax. Support to LMCs remains restricted to: i) the
servicing of loans contracted by CIL and assigned to the LMCs; ii) support for VRS gratuity payments that are in
addition to the severance pay being met through Government grants; and iii) minimum investment on replacement
of productive assets.
- 12 -



It is noted that the support for these issues was, and continues to be necessary for CIL to: i) preserve its financial
standing and credit rating; ii) limit its responsibility for, and its exposure to the LMCs; and iii) ensure that LMCs
respond effectively to the revival packages as and when these are agreed upon and taken up for implementation.
(iv) Performance Indicators and Compliance with Covenants. While labor reduction targets were generally
exceeded due to an extension of GOI's VRS program, most of the financial performance indicators of CIL and its
subsidiaries were adversely affected by various factors such as increased competition form imports and lower
growth rate in demand for coal.
(v) Impact of CSESMP on the project. The CSESMP started two years before the project, and consequently the
project mines had already successfully adapted their R&R policies and adopted a new modus operandi in relation
to environment and social mitigation, which kept improving with time; and CIL's other subsidiaries became more
responsive to these issues.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was about US$649.80 million, compared with the SAR estimate of US$1.7 billion. Of
the Bank Loan amount of US$530 million, US$224.40 million was disbursed and an amount of US$268.70 million
was cancelled on July 31, 2000. About US$37 million remained open for disbursement under special commitments.
Out of the Credit amount of US$2.0 million, US$1.42 million was disbursed and the remaining US$0.58 million
cancelled on January 25, 2001. JBIC provided co-financing of US$261.30 million, and CIL contributed
US$125.78 million. This is proportionately less than that planned due to the higher level of local procurement and
savings in excise duties, reduced custom tariffs and CIL's disproportionate share of works which were either
dropped or deferred.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Investment and TA Components.
(Likely). On the investment side, CIL has achieved positive results, albeit at lower levels of investment and
returns. Its sustainability, however, depends very much on CIL's ability to restore its financial position as coal
demand improves and its capacity to finance the implementation of Phase B of the project.
Reform Component and Corporate Restructuring.
(Unlikely). Parliament has not yet considered the draft amendment of CMNA and nor has GOI formulated an
action plan or implemented the recommendations of the consultant report for the regulatory framework and
consequently sustainability is unlikely. Without a viable turn-around plan for the LMCs and CIL's continuing
subsidization of these subsidiaries, sustainability of the corporatization program remains in jeopardy.
Overall Project Sustainability.
(Unlikely). Despite significant progress within CIL, the sustainability of the overall project objective is on
balance, unlikely in the absence of adequate competition, an enabling legal and regulatory environment, and a
rapid turn-around of the LMCs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Technically, the project will remain open since the Bank has given special commitments which are not affected by
the cancellation. Disbursements under these special commitments, which cover the final payment on the third
dragline and supply of spare parts associated with large contracts, amounts to US$37 million, and are expected to
- 13 -



be disbursed over the period to mid-CY 2003.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
(Satisfactory). The Bank was proactive in initiating the dialogue with the government and MOC for the sector
reform. The Bank spent substantial amount of time and resources for preparing the project. The deferment in
project preparation was caused mainly for addressing the concerns of the Bank and the government on policy
reforms, environmental, and resettlement issues. The Bank, which introduced the state of the art expertise into
project design, had a harmonious team with a good skill mix which included mining experts and specialists in
financial analysis, corporate restructuring, economics, sociology, resettlement and environment.
The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
During the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits but, in hindsight, underestimated the
magnitude of political and social resistance to sector reform. The project team could therefore have focused more
on these reforms and ensured that the necessary amendment of the CMNA was done prior to project effectiveness
and thus avoided the implementation difficulties that were experienced almost from the start.
A formal financial management assessment was not undertaken at appraisal since the project was appraised prior
to the introduction of LACI and the Bank's focus on these issues.
7.2 Supervision:
(Satisfactory). Over the two and half years of project implementation, there were six supervision missions, with an
average of more than two missions per year. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive.
Supervision teams included mining experts and specialists in finance, corporate strategy, economics, sociology,
resettlement and environment. The country and sector management and project team were engaged in extensive
dialogues with GOI and CIL and thoroughly discussed all the issues affecting project implementation. The Bank
also provided assistance, in terms of suggestions for drafting the laws and regulations, reviewing legal drafts, and
giving technical comments. Aides-Memoire were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the
government to problems with project execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner, and in conformity with
Bank procedures.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
(Satisfactory). The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
(Satisfactory). During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the
objectives of the project and dedicated sufficient resources to address the problems. The government officials and
staff of the implementing agency worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis with full
cooperation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
(Unsatisfactory). The approval of the project by the Bank's Board of Directors was premised on the commitment
that important policy measures such as promoting a greater role for private investors and trade liberalization, and
facilitating the development of a competitive structure for India's coal industry, would be implemented as agreed
during negotiations of the project. GOI had agreed to take necessary legal steps such as the amendment of the
- 14 -



CMNA and to review, develop, and implement an appropriate regulatory framnework. Even though the government
had agreed to submit proposed amendment to the Parliament in December 1997, it was finally submitted only in
April 2000, with a delay of more than two years. Similarly there was an inordinate delay by the GOI in
commissioning of, and on-going support for the regulatory framework study, which was to be originally completed
by October 1999. Although review was completed and submitted to the government, no apparent steps were taken
to implement the recommendations of the study.
GOI's handling of the procurement of international legal/regulatory technical assistance specialists incurred
continuous delays, some associated with misunderstandings regarding IDA procurement guidelines. However, the
major delays occurred because of a lack of DOC appreciation of the importance of the TA program to the coal
sector reforms underlying and underpinning the CSRP project justification and negotiation.
The government has also reversed key policy measures such as reducing import duty on coal. The import tariff for
steam coal for example, which had been progressively reduced since 1993/4 to 10% by February 1997, was
increased up to 25% in the 2001 budget largely to compensate for the local duties imposed on domestic coals by
state governments. These actions on the part of the government perpetuate market distortions and raised concerns
about the GOI's commitment to achieve the project's developmental objectives.
On the other hand, GOI fully met Voluntary Retirement Scheme obligations and provided funds for meeting the
agreements and labor reduction targets. The project did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems. The
government officials were always available and cooperative.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
(Satisfactory). Led by a competent and committed Chairman, CIL provided sufficient resources, set up WBPD,
engaged a consulting firm and project monitoring teams, and as a result, the day to day implementation and
supervision of the project was smooth. WBPD was very well organized and had the right kind of staff dedicated
and committed to the task. It was effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in
maintaining proper records of the project. Recognizing the almost unprecedented size and scope of mining and
auxiliary mining equipment packages under CSRP, CIL undertook procurement preparation and processing in a
satisfactory manner. With the extensive experience of procurement under IDA guidelines in 5 previous investment
projects, CIL prepared itself very well, establishing a Procurement Cell under the WBPD and retaining
international procurement specialists on a multi-year contract basis to assist with procurement processes.
CIL's procurement processing generally was handled in an expeditious manner. The first phase consisted of 21
ICBs, the bidding documents of which were compiled based on Bank's Standard bidding documents and were
finalized after two to three rounds of discussion between Bank, CIL and the international consultant. The
processing of procurement proceeded smoothly although the multi level approval process in CIL resulted in
occasional delays. In only one case out of the 21 ICB packages was there disagreement with Bank's view and
CIL opted to award the contract to a public sector firm which had been referred to the BFIR under the sick
company's act. Bank accordingly declared misprocurement for that case. Procurement was otherwise satisfactory.
Local political and trade union pressures did, however, limit CIL's success in addressing company restructuring
and staff reductions to the extent that later proved necessary. CIL was also unable to comply with any of the three
financial covenants related to the performance of the LMCs, and take the bold measures needed to deal with
unviable activities, reduce sales arrears and restore the creditworthiness of these companies.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
- 15 -



(Unsatisfactory). The overall performance of the Borrower was on balance unsatisfactory owing to insufficient
progress in opening the sector to private investment, reducing the role of the holding structure, creation of
adequate competition and generally to the constraints and rigidities of the socio-political system. Although the
borrower's performance is assessed as unsatisfactory in the context of the project design and the ex-ante
commitments by the GOI, it is nonetheless important to put this in the larger context of worldwide experience of
coal sector reform.
Many industrialized and developing countries have undertaken coal sector reform in the past two decades, and one
lesson is clear - it is an exceedingly difficult and complex task that is very difficult to do to a pre determined
timetable because it involves deeply embedded political and social forces as well as technical and financial issues.
As noted previously, the Bank's Operation Committee and the Regional Management at the time of appraisal
debated the regulatory study and sector reform and decided to proceed on the basis that the sector was critical to the
development of the country and that the GOI had shown strong indications of its readiness and willingness to
reform the sector.
It is now apparent that the Government was unable to develop the degree of consensus that was required to take on
board and implement the proposed reforms within the agreed time frame. For its part, the Government comments
in section 9 (b) that "in a major democracy like India implementing radical reforms without a major social
upheaval is a delicate task. ...Though it is conceded that there have been delays in meeting milestones, but, the
direction has been right and irrespective of the foreclosure of the loan, the Government is committed to usher in
reform in the coal sector. The fact that the government chose to face the 3 days nation wide strike in the coal
mines during December 2001 rather than give in to the demands of the Trade Unions and withdraw the
Amendment Bill in the Parliament bears testimony to its commitment and resolve to move ahead with coal sector
reforms". These comments by Government and international experience provide a strong indication that the
project has supported considerable progress in Government thinking and commitment to move along a coal reform
pathway - even though progress has been much slower than anticipated at the time when the project was approved
and progress has not been sufficient for this project to remain in implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
*   It is important to complete legislative actions upfront and ahead of loan effectiveness. Failure to do so reduces
the project's leverage, undermines its objectives and limits its success. The Bank should also ensure that all
sector policy and reform objectives are clearly articulated and recorded in a formal Letter of Development
Policy, even though the government had demonstrated an apparent commitment for sector reforms.
*   An investment Loan is a mismatch when the project includes sector reforms. Mega investment loans are
poorly suited to support long-term sectoral reforms; particularly, when the policy framework is not clearly
defined by the government. Had it been available while designing the project, an adjustable program loan
(APL) would have been much more effective in supporting gradual sectoral policy changes, minimizing risks
and costs, securing incremental commercialization and restructuring of CIL, and the progressive closure of
loss making activities.
*   The Bank should not underestimate the magnitude of difficulties and resistance from-trade unions, staff,
corporate management, and the govemment itself, nor the time required to develop sufficient consensus that
is generally needed to address structural changes in large organizations that require major staff reduction.
*   The Bank should not rely on studies and expected implementation of their recommendations as part of
conditionality, as happened in the case of the study on regulatory framework financed under the project. This
approach is by its nature too vague, difficult to manage or measure and almost impossible to enforce.
*   Also to ensure commitment to, and full implementation of all TA components of the project, the Bank
should ensure that all TORs are fully defined, finalized and agreed during appraisal and proposals invited
prior to negotiations.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(A) Coal India Comments
(i) Project objective as per 4.1 SAR
"To support the market oriented reforms being undertaken in coal sector and to provide financial and technical
support to CIL's effort to make itself commercially viable and self sustaining."
Indian coal sector and CIL in particular during the time of loan negotiation felt very strongly the need of above
objective which were most appropriate at that relevant point of time. To meet the above objectives, loan had
two components i.e. investment component and TA/Training components covering policy support and
institutional strengthening.
Investment component covered procurement of large fleet of Heavy Earth Moving Equipment and CHPs. At
the time of formulation of project , it was thought prudent to make these investment in two phases, i.e. Stage
'A' and Stage 'B". Under the first Stage i.e. Stage A, equipment were procured in the first 13 month of loan
sanctioning. All the equipments save two draglines have already been commissioned. As a result, the projected
production of these sub projects were achieved ahead of time in most of the sub projects. Sub projects which
slightly lagged behind, will also achieve production within next 9 to 12 months time. The increase in
production from the 24 sub projects has been better than projections in the SAR and accounts for the
production increase in Coal India as a whole. The rise in production slowly from these projects have enabled
the concerned subsidiary coal companies to consolidate their financial position since all these projects are
yielding high returns. From this point of view one of the major objectives of the project has been fulfilled, even
though, the part of the loan linked to Stage B procurement has been cancelled. The procurement has
commenced and is continuing on a modest pace. These procurements are mainly towards replacement of
existing HEMM in the sub projects. Efforts are being made to use existing HEMM beyond their normal life by
improving preventive maintenance and also by rehabilitating some of them. These factors have enabled the
projects to achieve production levels as per SAR with lower compliment of additional equipment.
Under the Technical Assistance component, studies by most experienced expatriates consultants were carried
out and their recommendations were reviewed by the management and are being gradually implemented.
However, Technical Assistance programs for training and financial forecasting, were dropped from CSRP due
to further review by the borrower. Borrower proposed to undertake training through its in-house facilities.
TOR of T.A. program for Financial Forecast was split into two TA programs (i) Corporate Plan formulation
with market orientation which has been undertaken by M/s. KPMG and (ii) Coal Demand Forecast and
imported coal price that can be released, which has been undertaken by TERI. These two were undertaken by
Borrower from its own resources. Short synopsis of the same has been provided during the mission visit.
Under sector reform, study was carried out through reputed firm to study rules and regulations to upgrade
them to world norms and to remove some of the constraints felt by the coal sector. Study was undertaken late
and report was available only in June 2000. The same is under review by the Government at the highest level.
However, in the mean time, Government has already introduced legislation amnending Coal Mines
Nationalization Act partially opening the sector to private captive users. The Government has also moved
amendment for opening up the sector to private entrepreneurs for coal production and marketing. This has
been referred to Standing Committee of Parliament. The matter has been delayed due to various socio political
reasons.
In the meantime, several steps has already been taken for deregulation of coal price and opening import barrier
for coal. Import duty on Coal reduced from 35% to 25% and coal has been kept on OGL. Action has already
been taken for corporatization and making all subsidiaries independent competing with each other for which
- 17 -



various experts were engaged and their reports were implemented.
For turning around of ECL and BCCL and to some extent CCL, various experts in the field were engaged.
Their reports have been submitted and reviewed by all stake holders, i.e. subsidiary companies, State
Government, Unions and the Government of India. Due to various socio political reasons, full implementation
could not be completed and there were several modifications to them. However, awareness and urgency of
serious steps to be taken is now fully appreciated by all stake holders. Gradually, action has been taken in all
these 3 subsidiaries and working results are improving by interim steps taken.
Under VRS Schemes manpower of ECL and BCCL have been reduced from 1,53,154 and 1,35,535 in 1998 to
1,27,452 and 1,13,73 8 in 2001 respectively
Assessment of the Borrower.
CIL is now commercially viable and self sustaining organization in the market. It does not depend on the
subsidy of Gol at all. Due to significant enhancement in its capability to enforce the commercial right of
regulating coal supplies to receipt of payments from the SEBs and also due to execution of Fuel Supply
Agreement, its current sale realization has improved and disputes on account of quality of coal has reduced.
(ii) Project design as per 4.05 of SAR.
"Bank's involvement would be limited to investments in highly profitable and economically viable opencast
mines that have no major environmental or social problems"
Assessment of the Borrower
Only 24 most viable existing mines and projects under implementation were undertaken to get the assistance
of CSRP loans.
(ill) Project Implementation as per 5.4 of SAR.
For implementation of the project, CIL established a strong team at its Headquarters with senior executives
having following cells:
*   Project implementation and monitoring cell
*   Procurement cell
*   Economic and financial cell
*   Engineering cell
Almost similar structures at subsidiary levels was also established. At the subsidiary, one senior executive was
in charge of WBP Division who drew support from Engineering & Finance Divisions too. Besides this, one
intemationally reputed firm was associated in the procurement right from formulation of bid to the
finalization of bid.
As the number of sub projects were large spread over in 5 subsidiaries and in 5 states, one local Indian
consultancy firm was deputed to supeTvise various activities at each sub projects by visiting once in a quarter
and submitting its quarterly report.
Bank Supervision Mission with adequate numbers of experts of different disciplines assisted CIL in
implementation of the project. As the project including its 24 sub projects was having social and
environmental issues of various degrees, another project Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation
project was in operation 2 years ahead of initiation of CSRP. There were cross conditionalities to keep a check
on the implementation of CSRP. The CSESMP was headed by a Chief General Manager (ESMP) assisted by
various executives experienced and trained in the field of Social & Environmental Sciences.
- 18 -



Implementation plan of sub-projects as shown in Annex 5.1 slipped due to:
(i) Delay of nearly nine months due to delay in signing of loan agreements i.e. instead of July 1997 to
March, 1998.
(ii) Severe Change in coal demand scenario projected at the time of formulation of the Project.
The second point made it clear that procurement of equipment has to be deferred or slowed down suiting
realizable low demand. This resulted in cancellation of uncommitted portion of the loan on 24 July, 2000.
Monitoring and evaluation of project was carried out as designed. This helped in involving grass root
employees at the project level and also improved awareness and quality of work of the sub projects.
First phase procurement of 20 packages involving US $ 508. Million was completed in 20 months including
supply and commissioning of equipment except for two draglines, which are also being supplied as per time
frame of the contract.
Operation Experience.
*   Corporatisation of subsidiaries achieved.
Through a major restructuring exercise, the financial flows between subsidiary coal companies and CIL
were corporatised. As opposed to free flow of cash from the profit making companies to the loss making
companies under the retention price scheme, CIL access to the surplus generated by the profit making
companies was restricted to receipt of dividends declared by the profit making companies. The retention
price scheme was discontinued. A transparent dividend policy was laid down and strictly enforced. The
rate of dividend was set at 40% of post tax profit subject to availability of resources. This enabled CIL to
access limited resources of the order of rupees 6 to 7 billion only as against a significantly higher amount
realized in earlier years. Correspondingly, the support to the loss making companies, despite these
companies incurring substantial cash loss is being limited to the following:
a)  Discharging debt services obligations of the loss making companies on loans contracted by CIL
and assigned to these companies. This is imperative to preserve the credit rating for CIL as a
whole.
b)   Disbursement of complimentary funds for payment of gratuity to VRS optees in these companies,
the component of Severance pay being met from Government grant.
c) Minimum cash for replacement of worn out asset so that the productive capacity was maintained.
Support on account of (b) & (c) was considered imperative to enable the company respond in a befitting
manner to the revival plan as and when the same is finally implemented.
These measures have led to consistent improvement in the formal credit rating carried out by Credit
Rating Information Services of India Limited (CRISIL) an associate of Standard and Poor - the
international credit rating Agency. CIL's current Long Term Credit Rating is that "High Investment
Credit" (AA-).
CSRP was a complex project, not only due to their location in various states under variable socio political
situations, but also for social and environmental issues of varying magnitude. With the well thought out
organizational set up from Headquarters to Project level, operations were managed, assistance given as
required and implementation shared. This has helped in developing well tested management structure and
well trained executives and other personnel with updated skill.
*   Revival plans of ECL, BCCL and CCL were prepared by thorough studies and debated through all stake
holders specially Government and Trade Unions. This exercise though helped in taking out interim steps
(due to complex socio-political dimensions in a democratic country) has prepared ground to loosen the
shackles of the sector,
- 19 -



*   Development of management skills of large cross section of executives in the areas of financial analysis,
equipment assessment, procurement process right from preparation of bid document and scientific
marketing of activities.
(iv) Project sustainability
Though the project was closed only after 2 years, the Borrower has taken action to procure balance equipment
on need-based basis for which exercise is being done periodically.
The sustainability of the project and eventual emergence of the company as a financially viable enterprise in
the long term is being secured through a number of measures.
Outsourcing of a number of productive and non productive activities both. Common among these are
transportation of coal and sand, upkeep and maintenance of township, hospitals, and office vehicles for
transport of officials etc. In a few cases, such as, WCL significant production activity like removal of OB is
being done by engagement of hired HEMM. Payment for such engagement are made on a per cubic meter
basis. This enables the coal company not only to reduce cost but also to enhance the component of variable
cost and correspondingly reduce fixed cost in the cost structure which eventually imparts better flexibility to
the companies to deal with demand sluggishness under recessionary conditions.
Management structure will be retained so that procedure developed will be followed for full implementation of
the project.
(v) Evaluation of the Bank and the Financier.
Highly professional Supervision Mission consisting of Bank and the Financier has made the project
implementation very satisfactory. Assistance of World Bank in developing large scale highly mechanized OC
mines and meeting the deficiency of operation by prodding and training of personnel in the state of art of
technology and mining, planning techniques along with better utilization of equipment is highly appreciated.
Although, reactions were positive but at times the approach of the Bank was bureaucratic in nature without
appreciating the ground reality.
Unfortunately, demand did not pick up as per the original projections. As a result, the procurement of second
phase equipment was decided to be delayed and the project was pre closed on 24.7.2000 (i.e. only after 2 years
from the project being operative). Many of the conditionalities, particularly, Financial Covenant could not be
fulfilled within the limited time as compared to originally perceived five year duration.
(B) GOI Comments
The Covenant with the bank provides only for introduction in Parliament of the Bill to amend the Coal Mines
(Nationalization)Act and this has been fulfilled. The component of stepping up of production in selected
mines of CIL has also been successfully implemented. It may kindly be appreciated that in a major democracy
like India implementing radical reforms without a major social upheaval is a delicate task. The
Government's recent efforts to privatize PSUs in a different department under the same Ministry also reflect
their commitment towards progress in this direction. As the coal sector employs nearly half a million
workmen in CIL alone and millions of others who are depending on this industry, hasty actions could lead to
disastrous consequences. Though it is conceded that there have been delays in meeting milestones, but, the
direction has been right and irrespective of the foreclosure of the loan the Government is committed to usher
in reform in the coal sector. The fact that the Government chose to face the 3 days nation wide strike in the
coal mines during December 2001 rather than give in to the demands of the Trade Unions and withdraw the
Amendment Bill in the Parliament bears testimony to its commitment and resolve to move ahead with coal
sector reforms.
- 20 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
JBIC believes that the improvement of CIL's interim productivity which is a success indicator of CSRP used in
compiling this ICR should be sustainable. In light of this, GOI is expected to continue to carry out
market-oriented reforms that will not hinder such a positive momentum.
In addition, learning from this project, JBIC hopes that the World Bank will draft future CAS programs that
incorporate the appropriate mechanisms that would strengthen sector reforms in India.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a
10. Additional Information
Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project (Project ID: P043310): The CSRP and CSEMP projects
were originally conceived as one to include both investment in coal sector reform and coal mine rehabilitation and
expansion, and mitigation of the social and environmental impacts. Because of the scale and complexity, CIL and
the Bank decided in 1995 to split them and begin addressing the mitigation measures in advance in a
free-standing project. An IDA Credit of US$63 million was approved to finance this project, which became
effective two years prior to the CSRP.
CSESMP aimed to assist CIL in making coal production more environmentally and socially sustainable through
technical assistance; enhance the company's capacity to deal with environmental and social issues; and support
CIL in the implementation of the Environmental Action Plans (EAP), Rehabilitation Action Plans (RAP), and
Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (IPDP) in the 25 coal mines that were slated to receive financial assistance
under the then proposed CSRP. RAPs were developed for 14 mines with land acquisition, and the total number of
Project Affected Families (PAFs) to be resettled are 2,584 and the number of PAPs entitled to assistance for income
restoration is 10,003. IPDPs involving community dev assistance are being undertaken in 24 mines, and comprise
villages not affected by land acquisition and located within a one kilometer radius around the mines and comprise
around 186,000 people belonging to 186 villages.
CSESMP was classified as a Category A project and accordingly an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was
prepared by CIL which identified adverse impacts and the measures to mitigate these through Environmental
Management Plan for the 25 mines under the project. To reinforce CIL's commitment and performance on
environmental and social mitigation, the progress on mitigation activities was linked explicitly to the CSRP
through a series of covenants in the CSRP Loan Agreement.
Overall implementation progress was initially slow and uneven and CIL's commitment remained problematic
especially with regard to two key areas of economic rehabilitation of PAPs, and institutional reform to enhance
CIL's environmental and social management capabilities. Significant progress throughout all 25 project mines
began only in the first half of 2000. Since then CIL has demonstrated increasing commitment regarding both
environmental and social mitigation and there has lately been noticeable implementation progress.
Although CSRP was 'de-activated' on July 24, 2000, the Bank did not consider suspension or cancellation of the
CSESMP to be a constructive option as the purpose of the CSESMP was to mitigate impacts deriving from the
CSESMP and to strengthen CIL's capacity to manage such mitigation issues. This improvement in overall
performance and commitment by CIL is indicated by
*   The Institutional Strengthening Action Plan is currently under implementation, and CIL has formed high level
strategy groups both at headquarters and in all subsidiaries, drafted subsidiary action plans, and authorized
staff as responsible for the handling of environmental and social mitigation throughout the company.
Although significantly delayed, CIL is now recruiting a consultant to provide the necessary TA for
implementation of the action plan. Implementation of the action plan will extend beyond the project closing
- 21 -



date of June 30, 2002, and CIL has committed itself to fund the technical assistance activities beyond the
project period.
*   Although uneven across mines, economic rehabilitation measures involving self-employment assistance have
been strengthened through the provision of assistance regarding investments or market linkages required to
enable PAPs entitled to economic rehabilitation assistance (EPAPs) to earn an income on the basis of the
training received.
*   As most of the displaced persons are villagers familiar with agriculture, CIL has for the first time introduced,
on a pilot basis, land-based income generation on unused or reclaimed mine land as a means of economic
rehabilitation.
* Lessons learned from the CSESMP regarding resettlement and rehabilitation, the participatory aspects of
community development, and environmental mitigation are now being applied in non-project mines.
Following CIL's request for extension, the Bank extended the CSESMP closing date by one year until end June
2002. The extension is expected to enable CIL to better achieve the project objectives.
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
r   M'1L~Indlcato,rIM.atlx;   l. I . j rjU  lmtoiraectOdlnhiaarRPSR~ w     ,l     'AptuI,tqt       Etlat!J 
A. Corporate Financial Indicators
(i) System Capacity Utilzation (%)   BCCL      CCL    ECL    MCL          BCCL     CCL     ECL    MCL
1998                                 78.4     72.4   82.1    93.8         81.85    78.5   71.76  106.41
1999                                 83.3     75.9   84.6    93.4         70.21    77.64  74.43  106.25
2000                                 85.6     80.7   86.7    91.3         69.84    80.50  70.98   88.56
2001                                 87.1     82.1   88.7    91.8         67.24    77.00  83.77   84.74
2002                                 88.4     82.9   90.2    91.1
NCL      SECL    WCL    CIL          NCL      SECL    WCL     CIL
1998                                 83.5     94.2   88.3    85.2         102.01  98.81   105.45  91.97
1999                                 83.8     94.5   90.3    87.0          98.76  93.00    96.39  88.34
2000                                 85.2     93.7   88.7    87.9         108.28  93.42   100.29  87.52
2001                                 85.2     93.7   90.2    88.9          93.34  89.88    101.18  85.66
2002                                 86.5     92.2   89.7    89.1
(ii) Coal Produrion (Million tons)   BCCL     CCL    ECL      MCL         BCCL     CCL    ECL     MCL
1998                                 30.7     34.0   31.0    39.0         30.92    33.07  27.44  42.17
1999                                 32.3     36.0   31.5    41.0         27.17    32.17  27.16  43.51
2000                                 33.0     38.0   32.0    42.0         27.90    32.40  2 5.12  43.55
2001                                 34.0     39.4   32.5    45.0         25.97    31.75  28.03  44.80
2002                                 36.0     41.3   33.0    47.3
NCL      SECL   WCL      CIL         NCL      SECL   WCL      CIL
37.12    56.63   32.51  260.55
1998                                 37.5    55.5    30.5   259.2'        36.52   57.56   3`1.75  256.48
1999                                 39.0    58.7    30.5   270.0         38.43   58.75   33.86  260.58
2000                                 41.5    61.0    30.6   279.1         4.0     6.3     3.0    281
2001                                 43.3    64.0    30.7   289.9         4.0     6.3     3.0    281
2002                                 45.9    65.9    31.8   302.1
(iii) Accounts Receivable (months of
tumover)                             BCCL    CCL    ECL      MCL          BCCL     CCL     ECL    MCL
1998                                 1.5    2.0    1.8     1.3            1.79    4.65    2.28   1.52
1999                                 1.5    2.0    1.8      1.3           2.93     4.36   2.73   2.48
2000                                 1.5    2.0    1.8      1.3           2.57     4.15   3.62    2.15
2001                                 1.5    2.Q    1.8      1.3           2.61     3.04   4.60   2.42
2002                                 1.5    2.0    1.8      1.3
NCL     SECL   WCL     CIL           NCL      SECL    WCL     CIL
1998
1999                                 1.0     1.3   1.3    1.4             1.14     2.18   1.44    2.63
2000                                 1.0     1.3    1.3    1.4            1.02     2.80    1.73   3.12
2001                                 1.0     1.3    1.3    1.4            0.52     2.89    1.98   3.04
2002                                 1.0     1.3    1.3   1.4             0.32     3.37   2.47    3.29
1.0     1.3    1.3    1.4
(v) Mine Site Coal Stocks
(months of producton)                BCCL    CCL    ECL    MCL            BCCL     CCL    ECL      MCL
1998                                 1.7     0.8   1.0    0.7             2.24    2.02    1.64   0.64
1999                                 1.7     0.8   1.0    0.7             1.94    1.98    1.79    1.06
2000                                 1.7     0.8    1.0    0.7            1.14    1.91    1.32    1.64
2001                                 1.7     0.8    1.0    0.7            1.08    1.39    1.05    0.76
2002                                 1.7     0.8    1.0   0.7
NCL     SECL   WCL     CIL           NCL      SECL    WCL    CIL
0.40     1.25    0.86  1.24
1998                                 0.4    1.5     0.5   1.0             0.84    1.35     1.25  1.44
2000                                 0.4     1.3     0.5   1.0            0.41     1.56    0.83  1.31
- 23 -



2001                               0.4     1.3    0.5   1.0           0.21     1.41   0.77   0.95
2002                               0.4    1.3     0.5   1.0
(vi) Current ratio
(current assest/current liabilitIes)                                   BCCL     CCL   ECL      MCL
BCCL    CCL    ECL   MCL
0.95     1.62  0.45    0.79
1998                               0.6    1.6    0.5    1.1           0.91     1.54   0.45   0.98
1999                               0.6    1.4    0.5    1.1           0.71     1.53   0.45    1.05
2000                               0.6     1.4   0.5    1.1            0.43     0.97  0.42    0.99
2001                               0.6    1.4    0.5    1.1
2002                               0.6    1.4    0.5    1.1
NCL     SECL    WCL     CIL
NCL     SECL  WCL     CIL
1998                                                                   1.11    1.00   0.78   0.91
1999                               1.2     1.3   1.3    1.1            1.27    1.28   0.86    1.02
2000                                1.8    1.4   1.4    1.2            1.20    1.19   0.91    0.97
2001                               1.8     1.4   1.4    1.2            1.14    1.16   0.93    0.76
2002                               1.8     1.4   1.4    1.2
1.8     1.4  1.4     1.2
B. Technical Assistance Indicators  Disbursement %
1998 1999  2000 2001   2002        1998  1999 2000 2001 2002
Regulatory Reforms                 20    100
Commercialization of coal sales    20    100
Strengthening design capability    20    100                                        40  100
Financial planning                        40   100                     Dealt by CIL internally
Training of executives             20     50    80   100               Dropped by CIL
Repair and maintenance services, etc.  20  80  100                                  10  100
Mine design optimzatlon            Completed                           Completed
Equipment design optimizaton       40     75    85   100                    75.31 89.61 93.43
and procurement
Local supervision                  20    400    60    80    100        14.78 28.17 43.68 67.19 82.11
Coal quality improvement through selecive  30  60  80  90   100                      40 100
mining
C. Production Indicators
Mineable   Design       1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002       1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
CCL
1.50  1.80 3.0  4.5  4.5  4.5      1.4  1.78 2.3   2.96 3.5  4.5
KD HEsalong   50        4.50       0.80  0.80 1.0  1.75  1.75 1.75     0.8  0.7  0.54 0.89 1.38 1.75
Parej East    41        1.75       2.60  3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00      2.65  2.6  2.3  2.31 1.71 2.80
RaJrappa      97        3.00
MCL
4.9  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5       5.3   6.3  6.6 7.3  7.6  6.0
Ananta       120        5.50        2.8  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0       3.0  4.3  4.0 2.8  2.2  2.3
Belpahar      35        2.00       3.3   4.7  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0       3.7  4.0  5.3 5.1  5.2  5.0
Bharatpur     120       5.00       5.0   4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0       5.5  5.4  5.4 5.0  5.4  4.0
Jagannath     100       4.00       2.6   3.5  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0       2.8  2.5  3.0 4.1  4.4  4.7
Lakhanpur     107       5.00       3.05 3.0   3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00      3.3  4.0  3.8 3.49 3.5  4.0
Samaleswari    55        3.00
NCL
5.6  4.5  4.5 4.5 4.5   4.5        5.5  5.5   5.5 5.2 4.9 5.0
Bina          105       4.50       4.2  5.8  5.8 7.0 8.5   9.25        4.3  5.8   4.7 5.2 7.9 8.0
Dudhichua     345      10.00       9.1  9.0  9.0 9.5 9.7 10.0          9.4  9.4   8.5 9.1 9.3 9.5
- 24 -



Jayant        322       10.00       3.6  2.7  2.0 3.0 3.0   3.0        3.5  3.6    3.7 4.7 4.1  3.8
Jhingurdah      58       3.00       4.2  4.2  5.0 5.0 6.0  7.0         4.2  4.0   4.1  4.5 5.4 6.0
Nigahi        492       10.00
SECL                                 0.8  1.0  1.2   1.2  1.2  1.2     0.7   1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1 1.1
Dhanpuri        45      1.25         5.0  3.5  5.0   8.0  9.0 10.0     5.0   5.4  6.9  8.2  9.1 10.0
Dlpka          200     10.00        16.8 16.0 16.0 15.0 14.4 12.00     16.8 17.8 17.2 18.0 18.8 17.9
Gevra          487     12.00         5.15 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10     4.8   4.4   5.1 5.5  9.6 6.5
Kusmunda        311     6.00         2.2  2.0  2.0   2.0  2.0  2.0     2.1   1.9   1.4 2.5  1.8 2.0
Manikpur        30      2.00
WCL                                 1.7 1.8 1.8   1.8. 1.8 1.8          1.7  1.7   1.3  1.7 1.8 1.7
Durgapur        44       1.8        1.9 1.9 1.9   1.9  1.9 1.9         1.9   2.0   2.0  1.8 2.1 1.9
Niljai          65       1.90       1.2 1.1 1.1   1.1  1.1 1.1         1.2   1.2   1.2  1.2 1.3 1.2
Padmapur        20       1.20       1.2 1.2 1.2   1.2  1.2 1.2         1.9   1.8   1.2  1.4 1.4 1.3
Sasda           23      1.25        2.5 2.0 2.0   2.0 2.0  2.0         2.5   2.5   2.5  2.5  2.6 2.5
Umrer           37      1.84        92.6 90.2 102.2 105.4 105.9         94.9 99.1 100.3 105.9 112.8 113.7
Grand Total   3309     110.49
D. Reform Indicators
Invitation for proposals for the study of the  December 31, 1997       n/a
rules and regulations goveming the coal
industry
Submission of the draft amendment to  December 31, 1997                 April 24, 2000
CMNA to the Parliament
April 30,1998                       December 17,1998
Signing of the contract of the rules and
regulaftons goveming the coal Industry
July 31, 1999                       March 2000
Completon of the study of the rules and
regulations                         To be determined after the completion of the Not done
Completon of the implementaton of the  study
results of the study of the rules and
regulations goveming the coal industry  January 1, 2000                 January 1, 2000
Announcement of the full deregulation of
price and distribution of the remaining
regulated low grade steam coal
S. Procurement Indicators           1998 1999 2000 2001 2002            1998  1999   2000   2001
Item           Quantity
A. Dragline              3          45    63    80   97   100           45    50      50    70
5m3ropeshovel          30           45    80   100 100                  45    70     100    100
10m3 ropeshovel        22           45    79   100 100                  45    70     100    100
50 ton dump truck     259           45    81   100 100                  45    80     100    100
85 ton dump truck      63           45    76   100 100                  45    75     100   100
120 ton dump truck    160           45    76   100 100                  45    75     100    100
240-60 kW dozer       185           25    88   100 100                  25    80     100    100
-25-



Output Indicators:
,X,  1h? sIdicatoW/Makitx, A^  . ,|[:. mead InlAmitPSR;*.i'k>lk, iiM  ,v tUisis
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Civil Works and Coal Handling Plant                 162.10                             O
Equipment and Vehicles                             1202.20         638.91          53.15
Technical Assistance                                 14.00           9.74          69.57
Miscellaneous                                         5.00           1.15             23
Total Baseline Cost                                1383.30         649.80
Physical Contingencles                             138.50
Price Contingencies                                175.80
Total Project Costs           1697.60          649.80   _
Total Financing Required            1697.60         649.80
Note on Equipment & Vehicles: Taking into account that an amount to the tune of US$30.0 million was dropped
out from the total loan facility under the head "goods", percentage estimate is 54.15% (i.e. 638.91/1172.2).
Subsequently, during July 2000 an amount of US$507.40 million was cancelled from the original loan facility of
US$ 1030 million.
$9.74 million under Technical Assistance includes $1.42 million given to MOC as IDA credit for regulatory
framework.
Proect Costs by Procurement A(n6ements (Appraisal Estimat (US$ million e   uivalen2)
1. Workis                    65.60                                    125.20       190.80
(56.60)         0                        (0.00)       (56.60)
2. Goods                    1128.50                                   353.80      1482.30
(992.60)         0            0           (0.00)      (992.60)
3. Services                   0.00                       15.60         3.00        18.60
(0.00)          0          (12.80)      (0.00)       (12.80)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00                                     5.90         5.90
(0.00)          0            0           (0.00)      (0.00)
S. Miscellaneous              0.00                                     0.00         0.00
(0.00)          0            0           (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00'                                    0.00         0.00
(0.00)          OO(0.00)                             (0.00)
Total                     1194.10        0.00         15.60        487.90       1697.60
(1049.20)      (0.00)       (12.80)       (0.00)      (1062.00)
ProJect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Worits               l                 2         l0.00                                  1
-27 -



o              o             0              0          (0.00)
2. Goods                       515.46                                      123.45        638.91
(257.73)          0             0              0         (257.73)
3. Services                                                   8.56          1.18          9.74
0              0           (4.99)           0          (4.99)
4. Miscellaneous                                                            1.15          1.15
O                            0              0          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                          0.00
O              0             0              0          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                          0.00
O              0             0            (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       515.46          0.00           8.56         125.78        649.80
(257.73)        (0.00)        (4.99)         (0.00)      (262.72)
Note: Goods: Figure includes suppliers credit to the tune of US$ 54.00 million
Service: Figure includes US$ 1.42 million disbursed to MOC as IDA credit for regulatory framework. Amount of
US$1.18 million against TA;under NBF indicates taxes and cess paid by CIL on qonsultancy charges.
Miscellaneous: Figure indicates LC charges of US$1.15 million
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (In US$ million equivalent)
Civil works and Coal     27.25     107.60    27.25                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
Handling Plant
Equipment and Vehicles  411.60    379.00    411.61     257.73    123.45    257.73   62.6    32.6   62.6
Technical Assistance     6.70      4.60      4.70       4.99      1.18      3.57    74.5    25.7   76.0
Miscellaneous                       5.00                          1.15                      23.0
Physical Contingencies   43.70     51.10     43.70                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies      42.75     90.30     42.75                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL FINANCING         532.00     637.60    530.00    262.72    125.78    261.30   49.4    19.7   49.3
Appraisal estimate under CIL includes supplier's credit of US$54.0 million. Appraisal estimate and the Actual
under Bank for TA includes US$2.00 million and US$1.42 million respectively of IDA credit for technical
assistance to MOC.
-28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic and Financial Analysis of CSRP
Present value of flows (USD mllilon)
Economic Analysis                  Financial Analysis
Appraisal          Latest          Appraisal          Latest
Total (For 23                          Estimates                          Estimates
projects)
Cost (PV)                   1,129.97          658.2            1351.57           712.19
Benefit (PV)               2,692.18          1,252.73         2,260.54          1,109.48
Net Benefit (NVP)           1,562.21          593.46            908.97           397.28
Intemal Rate of                                                57.61%           55.57%
Return (IRR)
Source: Coal India Limited
- 29 -



Economic and Financial Analysis of
Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project ( 24 Sub Projects)
(US$ million)
Company/mine     Economic Analysis                   Financial Analysis
Appraisal      Latest Estimates     Appraisal       Latest Estimates
NPVat 16%         NPVat 16%         NPVat 16%          NPVat 16%
CCL
KD Hesalong     87.7              n/a               36.2              n/a
Parej East      65.58             19.10             32.6              6.24
Rajrappa        116.05            6.72              81.2              1.26
MCL                                                    .
Ananta          64.2              36.82             49.63             31.72
Belpahar        9.9               3.66              6.94              2.40
Bharatpur       104.6             63.6              80.65             57.65
Jagannath       31.8              10.85             27.05             9.64
Lakhanpur       81.8              23.36             52.04              19.16
Samleswari      41.5              11.45             28.90             8.31
NCL
Bina            28.1              4.91              7.60              2.35
Dudhichua       166.8             50.41             65.90             7.67
Jayant          102.6             57.41             41.20             22.86
Jhingurda       470.              16.22             23.20              10.77
Nigahi          122.1             25.31             43.40             3.91
SECL
Dhanpuri        5.70              1.07              2.10               1.31
Dipka           204.70            120.58            107.10             103.21
Gevra           51.70             31.33             34.50             26.16
Kusmunda        70.05             41.72             45.50             31.48
Manikpur        13.80             9.67              8.30               8.06
WCL
Durgapur        50.20             26.26             44.00             22.22
Niljai          51.20             8.44              34.10              4.36
Padmapur        38.10             8.55              33.60              6.46
Sasti           28.60             9.33              17.10             5.27
Umrer           65.90             6.70              41.80             4.81
Total             1,649.95           593.47            944.97            397.28
Source: Coal India Ltd.
- 30 -



Table: Assumptions underlying thefinancial and economic analysis
Financial analysis                                        Economic analysis
Capital cost      SAR                                                     SAR
The capital cost is based on Coal India's and the mission's  The financial costs were converted to economic costs by netting out
estimates of cost components in sub-projects. The capital costs  duties and taxes, expressing the input content at c.i.f. prices and
include the investments envisaged in Coal Sector Environmental  adjusting local cost components by applying the standard conversion
And Social Mitigation Projects. The cost estimates of equipment  factor of 0.8.
are based on the standard price list published by CMPDI every
year. This list is a compilation of information based on the latest
purchases by Coal India. However, in cases where no such
purchases were made, budgeted prices from the suppliers formed  ICR
the basis of estimates. The base month for the estimate is July  The financial costs were converted to economic costs by netting out
1996. The capital cost of individual sub-projects includes  duties and taxes, expressing the input content at c.i.f. prices and
applicable taxes and duties and 100/o physical contingency. All  adjusting local cost components by applying the standard conversion
costs have been converted to their equivalent in 1996 US dollars.  factor of 0.9.
ICR
The capital costs from the beginning of the project in 1998 till
March 2001 are based on actual expenditure incurred. The
investment beyond March 2001 is estimated either on the basis of
actual contract prices or the current standard price list published
by CMPDI. The capital costs also include the investments
envisaged in Coal Sector Environmental And Social Mitigation
Projects. The estimates of capital cost for individual subproject
include applicable taxes and duties. All costs have been converted
to their equivalent in 2002 US Dollars.
Operating cost    SAR                                                     SAR
The operating costs are based on Coal India's estimates of the  The cost was derived from the financial cost by excluding all taxes and
operating costs for each subproject. These have been derived from  duties and a standard conversion factor of 0.8 was applied to the local
the schedule of additional coal production, overburden removal,  cost component.
and deployment of the machines and take into account fixed and
variable components of unit operating cost. The unit operating cost
estimates, i.e. cost/m3 are comparable with mines of similar nature
currently in production in Coal India. For replacement projects,
however, the variable cost/incremental operating cost is company
specific and are based on actual results of 1995-96. These costs
reflect the variable costs per m3 in opencast mines of Coal India.
Interest on working capital is based on historical levels of working
capital requirements equivalent to 4 months operating cash
expenses.
ICR
The operating costs till 2001 are actual and the unit cost estimates
for future years are based on the actual cost prevailing in 2001.
Coal production   SAR                                                     SAR
For mines under construction and expansion mines, the expected  For mines under construction and expansion mines, the expected
increase of coal output was taken as the major benefit from the  increase of coal output was taken as the major benefit from the
subprojects. For projects where replacement equipment is  subprojects. For projects where replacement equipment is proposed to
proposed to be financed, the likely shortfall in coal output that  be financed, the likely shortfall in coal output that would occur if
would occur if equipment were not replaced was taken as the  equipment were not replaced was taken as the major benefit The
major benefit. The assessment of the shortfall in production was  assessment of the shortfall in production was based on the recent
based on the prevailing average annual productivity of each type  average annual productivity of each type of equipment in Coal India.
of equipment in Coal India.                             ICR
ICR                                                     The coal production till 2001 is actual. The estimates of incremental
The coal production till 2001 is actual. The estimates of  production beyond 2001 are based on the technical assessment of the
incremental production beyond 2001 are based on the technical  planned deployment of equipment and the geo-mining characteristics
assessment of the planned deployment of equipment and the  of the mines. The methodology adopted for the assessment of
geo-mining characteristics of the mines. The methodology adopted incremental production is the same as the SAR.
for the assessment of incremental production is the same as the
SAR.
Coal price        SAR                                                     SAR
Expected revenues are based on ex-mine selling prices authorized  Benefits were calculated on the basis of additional coal production,
as of March 1997 and additional coal production attributable to  valued in two ways. First, at c.i.f. import prices of coal at selected
the investment in the project Revenues for Nigahi are based on the Indian ports plus inland freight costs to consumers and adjusted for
price negotiated with NTPC.                             equivalent heat values, less freight charges for delivery of coal from
mine mouth to the same consumers. Second, on the basis of long-nn
marginal cost, appropriately adjusted for quality, to reflect consumer's
- 31 -



willingness to pay. With the exception of two coking coal mines (Parej
ICR                                                    East and Rajrappa) and one non-coking coal mine (Umrer) producing
Actual selling prices till 2001 have been adopted. The present coal high grade coal, incremental output of all other mines was valued at
prices have been used in the estimates of cash inflow for each sub  prices based on the long run marginal cost (LRMC). The methodology
project                                                adapted is consistent with the one applied at appraisal.
ICR
Same as above
Source: Coal India Ltd.
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identlflcation/Preparation
November/96                 2    1 Financial Analyst, 1
Operations Officer
Appraisal/Negotiadon
March/97                    7    1 Financial Analyst, 1
Operations Officer, 2 Mining
Engineers, I Procurement
Specialist, I Economist, I
Legal Counsel
Supervision
October/97                   I   I Operations Officer               S             S
October/97                   1   I Operations Officer               S             S
December/97                  6   2 Financial Analysts, I            S             S
Operations Officer, 1 Mining
Engineer, I Procurement
Specialist, I Consultant
May/98                       4   1 Financial Analyst, I             S             U
Operations Officer, I Mining
Engineer, I Procurement
Specialist
September/1998               2   1 Operations Officer, I Mining     S             S
Engineer
October/98                   I   I Financial Analyst                S             S
March/99                     5   Sector Manager, 2 Financial        S             U
Analysts, I Operations Officer, I
Mining Engineer
April/99                     3   2 Financial Analysts, I            S             U
Consultant
November/99                  7   2 Mining Specialists, 2 Financial  U             U
Analysts, 1 Operations Officer, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Consultant
March/2000                   5   Sector Manager, 2 Financial        U             U
Analysts, I Operations Officer, I
Consultant
ICR
January/02                  3     1 Financial Analyst, I
Economist, I Consultant
- 33 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimaite
No. Staff weeks             US$ cooO)
Identification/Preparation            405.4                      1352.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   65.8                      248.4
Supervision                            189.4                      710.2
ICR                                     6.87                       45.5
Total                                  667.5                     2356.3
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                     OH   OSUOM * N        O NA
El Physical                            O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
E Financial                            OH   OSUOM      ON    ONA
O Institutional Development            0 H  O SUO M 0 N      0 NA
OjEnvironmental                        OH   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
rO Poverty Reduction             O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
O Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Ol Private sector development          0 H O SU OM     * N   0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  O SU *M    O N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
OL Lending                                          OHS*S         OU    OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS        O U   O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS        0 u   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
LII Preparation                                     OHS OS        OU    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O 5      * U   0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                OHS OS        O U   O HU
I Overall                                           OHS OS          U  O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 15, 2002; and
5. Staff Appraisal Report for India: Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project dated July 31, 1997 (Report
No. 16473-IN
- 37 -



~~ _ ~~~. .X   .  : -1,.1 
<~~~~~~ 1, jrb t                HS4                                  *Ei ,
, -,er_ F;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  1       n,o'  * 4 
_    ~~~~~~~~~a~' ._I *                              ,_#s  > 
-                -  -  R  '  G; , ,,. ss b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- 4 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .          *  J    a 
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '-        V                            a 
- ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~  I                         VN>r~
qWJWrMeUJw   aipm  /r   -- -' '  -o
F~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a-,,d  
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~ *--I 4R
v f~~~~~~~                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a *  a -  
lev   ffi . ,   ,.*     s t 4  o-  - u               $wi
(l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VKIS%'VW
,,           ,,sni                      ('sy '1'flp PIfU- W3~
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alf o  C4
#- (s3} 'WA e D*8       -  wamIC
lyoNse  -E  a         --.                 fl us
/ Rr                    ff    ~   ~~ HSt &VIWMll  a         *<          *
8\~~~~~~Q~                                        HS*HOVWJ VAHOY






IMAGING
Report No.:        23743
Type:    ICR



