Report No. PID724
Project Name                      India-Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project (@#
Region                            South Asia
Sector                            Energy
Project ID                        INPE9979
Borrower                          Coal India Ltd.
10 Netaji Subhas Road
Calcutta, West Bengal, 700 001
Contact: Mr. P. K. Sengupta, Chairman
Telephone: (91 33) 220-6063
Fax: (91 33) 248-3373
Date Initial PID Prepared         March 8, 1994
Date This PID Prepared            September 23, 1997
Appraisal Date                    March 11, 1997
Board Date                        September 9, 1997
1.      BACKGROUND. Coal is India's most important source of
commercial energy, providing two-thirds of India's energy needs.
Faced with a rapidly growing energy demand, demand-side management
programs which are just beginning, relatively small reserves of
hydrocarbons and steeply rising costs for the development of
hydroelectric resources, India relies heavily on its abundant coal
reserves. About 60% of India's coal output is used to generate
electricity, about 15% to produce steel, and about 25% to fuel
boilers in industrial plants (cement, fertilizer, etc.). Coal India
Ltd. (Coal India) produces about 909 of India's coal output.
Indigenous coal supplies are likely to dominate commercial energy
production in the years ahead since infrastructure bottlenecks will
constrain large-scale coal imports in the short and medium term.
Coal India's financial performance will critically affect its
ability to meet the country's energy demand over the next few
years. As such, Coal India's ability to meet the country's coal
demand will critically affect the success of India's reform efforts.
2.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES. Over the past three years, the Government
of India and Coal India have implemented a number of reforms aimed
at making the coal industry commercially viable and financially
self-sustaining. The primary objective of the proposed loan is to
support this reform agenda and Coal India's transformation into a
commercial company whose operations are financially and
economically sustainable.
3.      In order for the project to achieve the desired long-term
financial impact, the project would:
-- support investments in 24 opencast mining operations that
are projected to yield the highest economic returns; and
-- provide technical assistance in support of the project.
The success of future coal sector development is predicated on
continued reforms by the Government of India regarding pricing and



distribution of coal, private investment, the financial
restructuring of Coal India and the phasing out of subsidies to
loss-making coal companies, as well as support for Coal India's
efficiency and productivity drive.
4.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION. The bulk of the proposed loan would
finance the purchase of mining equipment for 24 opencast mining
operations in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and
Orissa. The loan would also provide technical assistance for
redrafting the regulatory framework that governs operations in the
coal industry. The aim is to enhance competitiveness and efficiency
in the coal industry.
5.      COST AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT. The
total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$1.7 billion.
The estimated foreign exchange requirements are US$1.1 billion.
Coal India has requested a World Bank loan of US$530 million, which
would finance part of the required mining equipment and technical
assistance. Coal India has indicated that it would be able to
finance about US$500 million of the estimated cost from internally
generated resources and about US$82 million from borrowings in
local capital markets and supplier's credits. The remaining US$530
million is expected to be raised through cofinancing arrangements.
In addition, IDA credit of US$ 2 million will be provided to GOI to
finance the study of the regulations governing the coal industry.
6.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. The design of the project, which
involved the identification of the highest-yielding investments
(subprojects), included agreement with Coal India on (sub) project-
specific implementation arrangements. In addition, the proposed
loan is supported by the Coal Sector Environmental and Social
Mitigation Project (Cr. 2862-IN). This credit has provided the Bank
with an opportunity to assist Coal India in strengthening its
policies with regard to resettlement and rehabilitation and
community development and the environmental sustainability of its
mining operations.
7.      Coal India has set up a Project Implementation Division at
its headquarters to monitor the implementation of the project as
regards procurement, deployment of equipment and environmental and
social concerns, and the overall commercial performance of the
project. In addition, the subsidiary coal companies that will
receive financial support under the proposed loan are strengthening
their capacities (at their headquarters and the mine level) to deal
with environmental and social issues through the Coal Sector
Environmental and Social Mitigation Project.
8.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY. As indicated in para. 2 above, the
proposed project supports Coal India's efforts to ensure that its
operations are commercially viable. To ensure Coal India's
financial viability beyond the period in which the project is being
implemented, financial support under the project will be limited to
mines that yield the highest economic return while minimizing
adverse social and environmental impacts.
- 2-



9.      LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS. The Bank has
made three loans to the Indian coal industry: in 1984, a loan of
US$151 million for the development of the Dudhichua coal mine in
Singrauli; in 1985, a loan of US$248 million for the development of
an opencast mine (Block II) and an underground mine (Pootkee-
Bulliary) in the Jharia coalfield; and in 1987, a loan of US$ 340
million for the expansion of an opencast mine (Gevra) in the Korba
coalfield, Madhya Pradesh, the construction of an opencast mine
(Sonepur-Bazari) in Ranigunj coalfield, West Bengal, and imports of
coking coal. In 1992, the Board approved a credit of US$12 million
for a technical assistance program to deal with mine fires in the
Jharia coalfield. The loan for the Jharia Coking Coal project was
closed on December 31, 1992 and the loan for the Dudhichua Coal
project was closed on March 31, 1993.
10.     Implementation of the projects supported by these loans has
been uneven. The construction of the Dudhichua coal mine and the
expansion of the Gevra coal mine proceeded without major problems
and ahead of schedule. At the time these projects were completed,
the majority of the project-affected people had been resettled and
had received compensation for their loss of assets. Under both
projects, the respective subsidiary coal companies followed a
policy which provided employment - one per entitled project-
affected family - in an effort to restore and improve the
livelihood of these families. However, the process of
rehabilitating project-affected people has not been completed, and
the resettlement and rehabilitation efforts under these as well as
all other coal projects that have received financial support from
the Bank in the past are being reviewed in the context of the Coal
Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project.
11.     The opencast mine project in the Jharia coalfield and the
Sonepur-Bazari project were plagued by land acquisition problems
and social issues. This not only delayed their implementation and
the disbursements of the loans, it also reduced the commercial
viability of these projects. People affected by these projects,
demanded employment with the respective subsidiary coal companies,
at a time when these companies were under financial pressure to
reduce their staff. The fact that wages in the coal industry are
about 8-10 times the prevailing minimum wage, made employment with
the coal companies highly attractive and, at the same time, the
task of identifying acceptable alternative ways to restore/improve
the livelihood of affected people, more difficult.
12.     One component, the Pottkee-Bulliary underground mine, was
canceled after it was discovered that the coal reserves at this
location would not support the original mine design and the
subsidiary coal company was unable to come up with another
commercial viable proposal.
13.     Several lessons have been drawn from these operations and
included in the design of the proposed project:
Technical assistance greatly enhances the chances that a
project is implemented properly and on time. The Dudhichua
mine is rightly regarded as one of the most successful
- 3 -



mines in the Singrauli coalfield. This is largely due to
the fact that the construction of the mine had during its
initial years, considerable assistance and guidance from
an international mining consultant. Several technical
assistance components are incorporated in the project.
-- Project implementation units have been strengthened and
technical assistance during implementation has been scheduled.
-- Procurement has been centralized and streamlined in Coal
India. All procurement is being carried out by a cell with
specially trained staff and on the basis of standard
bidding documents agreed upon with the Bank. Realistic
periods for making procurement decisions have been agreed
between the Bank and Coal India for each package.
Technical specifications have been reviewed by (external) experts.
-- Equipment utilization is generally poor, around 75% , for
major equipment. Coal India has provided the Bank with a
program that clearly identifies the steps being taken to
bring equipment utilization in line with rates achieved in
major industrial coal producing countries.
-- Land acquisition is difficult unless project-affected
people are consulted from the outset and offered an
acceptable alternative that ensures that they at least
regain their livelihood. Detailed programs have been
prepared for the rehabilitation of PAPs and are being
implemented with NGO assistance.
-- Since Indian laws did not require the preparation of
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) at the time, some of
these mines were approved by the Government, mining
operations lacked a coherent environmental mitigation
strategy. Coal India has now prepared EMPs for all mines.
14.     POVERTY CATEGORY. Not applicable.
15.     ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS. The proposed project has
been classified as Category 'A.' Coal India has prepared a Sectoral
Environmental Assessment. As part of this assessment, Coal India
has also developed Environmental Action Plans and Rehabilitation
Action Plans and Indigenous Peoples Development Plans for each of
the mines. These plans are being implemented under the Coal Sector
Environmental and Social Mitigation Project.
16.     PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES. The project objective
categories are: sector reforms (40%), public enterprise reform
(30%) and infrastructure (30%).
17.     PROJECT BENEFITS. The Bank's support for the Government's
reform efforts for the coal industry would have several benefits:
it would significantly reduce the risk that the reform efforts lose
momentum due to lack of financial resources and; through the
technical assistance provided under the project, it would further
- 4 -



facilitate the transformation of Coal India into a commercially
viable and financial self-sustaining coal company. The project
would also contribute to the environmental and social
sustainability of Coal India's activities.
18.     PROJECT RISKS. The proposed project faces the following major
risks: (i) delays in the implementation of the environmental and
social mitigation activities; and (ii) a slowdown of the pace of
reforms. In spite of the commitment of Coal India to the
environmental and social mitigation activities, Coal India could
face the risk of delay in the implementation of some of these
activities, as they are very complex and new to Coal India. The
Bank is assisting Coal India in implementing the environmental and
social mitigation activities under the ESMP. The actions taken up
to now by the Government clearly indicates a strong resolve to
proceed with the reform of the coal sector. However, the Government
would temporarily slow down pace of the reforms to develop
consensus among various stakeholders. However, it is expected that
the reforms would be continued without major delays in medium-and
long-term. The driving force behind the resolve is the cut in
budget resources and high investment requirement to meet ever
increasing demand for coal.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 3, 1997.
- 5 -



