Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4226 IN
Guarantee Agreement
(Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 19, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4226 IN 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 1998, between India, acting by its President (the 
Guarantor), and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Coal India Ltd. (the Borrower), having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Borrower has agreed to carry out Parts A and B of the Project and for 
that purpose the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan equal to five 
hundred thirty million dollars ($530,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement;  
(C)
by a Development Credit Agreement (the Development Credit Agreement) of 
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the International Development Association 
(the Association), Guarantor has agreed to carry out Part C of the Project and for 
that purpose, the Association has agreed to provide assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR1,500,000) (the Credit) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Page  2
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement, the Preamble to and Section 
1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee 
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall not take, or cause or permit any of its 
constituent States and Union Territories or any agency of any such constituent States 
and Union Territories to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
performance of the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement and 
will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to 
enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.
(b)
The Guarantor shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses 
Section 4.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  3
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert Drysdale
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia
