INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                          1818 H Street, N.W.          Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                              Washington, D.C. 20433       Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                              U.S.A.                       Email: ipanel@worldbank.org




IPN REQUEST RQ01/2

                                                                           June 22, 2001



                                    NOTICE OF REGISTRATION



   Re: Request for Inspection- INDIA: Coal Sector Environmental and           Social Mitigation
  Project (Credit No. 2862-IN) and Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project (Loan        No. 4226-IN)



        On June 21, 2001, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a    Request for Inspection
(the "Request") dated June 14, 2001 related to the above-referenced Projects.     The Request was
submitted by Ms. Bina Stanis of Chotanagpur Adivasi Sewa Samiti (CASS), a                local non-
governmental organization representing residents of the East Parej coal    mining project area in
India (the "Requesters").

        The Request claims that the Requesters, the local population and their environment have
suffered harm as a result of failures and omissions of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the Intemational Development Association (hereinafter     collective called the
"Bank") concerning the above-referenced Projects. According to the Request, the Coal Sector
Environmental and Social Mitigation Project was supposed to, inter alia, mitigate       the adverse
effects of the expansion and rehabilitation of coalmines partly financed by the Bank-supported
Coal India Rehabilitation Project. The Requesters allege that the       execution of the Projects
brought, inter alia, adverse impacts on their living standards and  income earning capacity, on the
local population, and on the environment in the East Parej coal mining project     area. They also
claim that lack of consultation and participation resulted in inadequate implementation of the
Environmental Action Plans, Rehabilitation Action Plans, and Indigenous      Peoples Development
Plans under the Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project.

        The Requesters 'further call on Bank Management and the Board of      Executive Directors
toprolong the term of the Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation    Projects.... "




                                                                                                   1

        The Requesters claim they have been harmed as a result of alleged Bank         violations of
various provisions of the following Bank Policies   and Procedures:

        OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
        OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples
        OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
        BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information
        OPN 11.03 on Management of Cultural Property in     Bank-Financed Project
        OD 13.05 on Project Supervision

        The Panel has received copies of authorization of representation signed by the  Requesters,
who have requested that their names be made available only    to the Panel members, but otherwise
remain confidential. All communications with the Requesters in connection    with the Request will
be sent to Ms. Stanis at the address listed below.

        In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating      Procedures (the "Operating
Procedures"), I am notifying you that I have, on June 22, 2001,      which is also the date of the
dispatch of this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Due to the fact
that the Panel's "registration" process is often misunderstood,    I would like to emphasize that
"registration" is an administrative procedure established    by the Panel and that it implies no
judgment whatsoever concerning the eligibility of   the Request.

        In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs            2 and 8 of the
"Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection     Panerl (the "1999 Clarifications"),
and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank      Management has been notified that it
must provide the Panel, no later than July 24, 2001, with written evidence that it has complied, or
intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures       in relation to the above-
referenced Projects. The subject matter the Management       must deal with in a response to the
Request is set out inparagraphs 3 and 4 of the 1999 Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will,         as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution,  "determine whether the Request
meets the eligibility criteria set out inparagraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to
the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should  be investigated."

       The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ02/1.



                                        Yours sincerely,




                                         Jimg2




                                                        Chairvn~~~~~~~~~~~~

cc: Ms. Bina Stanis
    Prerana Resource Centre
    Suresh Colony Mor
    Hazaribag, Jharkhand, 825 301
    India

    Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
    President
    International Development Association
    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
    Room MC12-750

    [by hand against confirmation]

    The Executive Directors and Alternates
    International Development Association
    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development




                                                             3

