Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7544-GU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSE" FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.0 MILLION
FOR
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
May 31, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GUATEMALA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 2002)
US$1 = Q8.133
Ql = US$0.123
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACCRONISMS
BANGUAT     =     Central Bank of Guatemala (Banco de Guatemala)
CAS         =     Country Assistance Strategy
CIS         =     Credit Information System
CORFINA     =     National Financial Corporation (Corporacidn Financiera
Nacional)
EML         =     Economic Modernization Loan
FATF        =     Financial Action Task Force
FOPA        =     Government Deposit Insurance (Fondo para la Protecci6n del
Ahorro)
FFCB        =     Bank Capitalization Fund (Fondo Fiduciario de Capitalizacion
Bancaria)
FSAP        =     Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP         =     Gross Domestic Product
IDB         =     Inter American Development Bank
ICR         =     Implementation Completion Report
IGSS        =     National Institute of Social Security
IMF         =     International Monetary Fund
IVA         =     Value Added Tax
LOLR        =     Lender of Last Resort
LSP         =     Letter of Sector Policy
MB          =     Monetary Board
NPL         =     Non Performing Loans
OPP         =     Operational Principles and Procedures
PRSP        =     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SB          =     Superintendency of Banks
SMEs        =     Small and Medium Enterprises
SPV         =     Special Purpose Vehicle
SUPER       =     Bank classification system used by the SB
TA          =     Technical Assistance Loan
Vice President         David De Ferranti
Country Director       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director        Danny Leipziger
Task Manager           Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No:
I.    THE SETTING ..............................................           1
A. Economic Context and Recent Developments ................................... 1
B. Links to Poverty Reduction .............................             5
II.   GUATEMALA'S FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM.                         7
A. Fragility of Guatemala's Banking Sector.                             7
B. Shortcomings of the Financial Sector Institutional, Legal and Regulatory
Framework.                                                      9
C. The Government's Financial Sector Reform Program .12
III.  BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.                    28
A. Bank Assistance Strategy in Financial Sector Reform .28
B. Bank Experience with Policy Based Lending in the Financial Sector .29
C. Coordination with Multilateral Institutions .32
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN .32
A. Loan Objectives and Description .32
B. Commitments Reached under the Proposed Loan .33
C. Disbursements, Records and Auditing .37
D. Impact, Benefits and Risks.                                        37
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS .................                                  39
Annex I            Matrix of Policy Actions
Annex II           Operating Principles of the FFCB
Annex III          Benchmarks for the application of the new legislation
Annex IV           Program of in-situ supervision of national banks
Annex V            Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex VI           Key Economic Indicators & Country at a glance
Annex VII          Status of Bank Group Operations
This operation has been prepared by a World Bank team composed of Messrs/Mmes. Mariluz Cortes (Task
Manager), Fernando Montes-Negret (Sector Manager), Augusto de la Torre (Reg. Financial Services
Advisor), Juan Ortiz (LCSFF), Javier Bolzico (consultant), Juan Carlos Alvarez (LEGLA), Eduardo
Somensatto (Res. Rep), and Cam Zappala (LCSFF).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






GUATEMALA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Guatemala
Amount and        US$150.0 million (including capitalized front end fee of 1%).
Terms:            The loan will be committed linked with level amortizing
repayments, payable in 16.5 years, including 5.5 years of grace
period, at the standard interest rate for US dollar fixed-spread
loans. Commitment charges of 0.85% of undisbursed balance for
the first four years and standard charges of 0.75% thereafter.
Description:      The broader policy objective of this proposed loan is to assist the
Guatemalan Government to implement its Financial Sector Reform
Program, aimed at bringing about a stronger and better functioning
banking sector, able to withstand external shocks and to increase
prudent lending to the private sector, opening access to groups and
enterprises today largely excluded from bank financing (micro,
rural and SME financing). The Bank loan would finance the needs
of the Government's economic program related to the
strengthening of the financial sector.
The financial sector reform program to be supported by this
operation includes actions in the following key areas: (i) reform of
the monetary policy legal framework for the conduct of monetary
and financial policy, including the capitalization of the Central
Bank; (ii) reform of the financial sector legal framework aimed at:
strengthening the regulation of financial groups and create an
orderly market exit mechanism, enhance credit risk management,
and increase access to financing; (iii) reform of bank supervision
legal framework aimed at strengthening the autonomy of the
Superintendency of Banks and its legal and institutional capacity to
supervise financial groups, and rise banking sector regulation
towards international standards; (iv) enactment of legislation to
prevent money laundering to reduce illegal activities and comply
with international norms; and (v) consolidation of the banking
system through the restructuring or closure of insolvent banks, and
through mergers and acquisitions.
Benefits:         The most important benefit of the proposed loan would be its
contribution to a reduction of the risk of a systemic banking crisis
in Guatemala, and the resulting economic disruption and high
fiscal cost. The financial sector legal reforms supported by this
loan would create the basis for a modem central bank, improve



bank regulation and supervision, and increased transparency in the
banking sector. The bank restructuring program, supported by this
operation, would help the Government to clean up the banking
system without the risk of a balance of payments crisis. A strong
and well capitalized banking sector would be in a good position to
lend to the private sector, contributing to economic growth and
employment creation. Moreover, the reform program includes
actions such as the imposition of legal limits to connected lending
by the banks and the creation of a credit bureau that will help to
broaden access to financial services to under-served sectors.
Risks:            There are several risks associated with this operation. At the
macroeconomic level, there is the risk that a slower than expected
economic recovery could prompt the Government to. reduce
expenditures further or raise taxes. This would place additional
financial burden on the financial sector since both enterprises and
the households could continue to have difficulties in servicing their
debts. More directly related to the loan, there is the risk that the
Government may fail to issue the required regulations or otherwise
implement these laws as required. To limit this risk, release of the
loan's second and third tranches would be conditioned to
compliance with previously agreed benchmarks of implementation
of the new legislation.  Furthermore, a companion technical
assistance loan would help strengthen the capability of the
financial authorities to implement the new legal framework and
propose additional reforms.
Another risk is that the Guatemalan authorities could find it
difficult to implement its bank regularization/consolidation
program, given the lack of funds in the newly created deposit
insurance scheme. To mitigate this risk, the equivalent in Quetzals
of the proposed loan will be used to finance the deposit insurance
scheme and a bank capitalization trust fund, administered by the
central bank. Finally, a major source of risk is the uncertainty
about the capital needs of the off-shore entities.  The
comprehensive examination of the banking sector on a
consolidated basis, to be undertaken under the proposed loan, will
shed light on this important issue.
Schedule of
Disbursements:    The loan would be disbursed in three tranches: one tranche upon
effectiveness and two floating tranches linked to the
implementation of reform actions.
Closing Date:     June 30, 2004
Project ID Number: P074530



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO GUATEMALA
I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to Guatemala for US$150.0 million. The loan would
support an ongoing and far-reaching program of financial sector reforms. A US$5.0
million companion Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan is intended to support the
implementation of the reforms through technical assistance to the Central Bank of
Guatemala and the Superintendency of Banks.
I.    THE SETTING
A.    Economic Context and Recent Developments
1.    Guatemala has maintained a respectable track record of economic growth and
stability over the past decade. Since 1990, real GDP growth has averaged 4.0%
(compared to an average increase in the population growth of 2.7%). After reaching a
high of 42% in 1990, inflation has declined to less than 9% in 2001. External debt
management has been prudent; today Guatemala has one of the lowest levels of external
indebtedness (13.7% of GDP) among countries at similar stages of development.
2.    The last decade witnessed important structural reforms, particularly in the areas of
communications, infrastructure and trade. One of the main sources of economic growth
has been the increase in output resulting from the liberalization of the power and
telecommunications sectors. The economy has also gained from the dynamism of
increased trade and integration; today Guatemala's economy is fairly open and with low
levels of protection. Exports account for more than 13.8% of GDP, and are increasingly
more diversified, both geographically and by product.
3.    Despite some fluctuations, fiscal policy has also been relatively stable, with
central government budget deficits averaging about 1.5% of GDP over the last ten years.
The perennial shortcoming of fiscal policy, however, has been the very low levels of
taxation, which have inhibited public investment in much needed infrastructure and social
programs. Guatemala's main challenge has been to raise government tax revenues,
which were around 8% of GDP in 1995 and have been gradually raised to an estimated
9.7% of GDP in 2001, still short of the Peace Accord's target of 12% for 2002.
4.    The 1996 Peace Accords called for an important increase in government spending
on social services, and in recent years budget deficits increased as tax revenues did not
keep pace with increases in spending. As a result, the Central Government budget deficit
rose from 0.6% of GDP in 1996 to 1.9% in 2001. During the same period, expenditures
as a share of GDP rose from less than 10% to 13.0% of GDP, with the bulk of the



expenditures in the social sectors and for investment. Nevertheless, the implementation
of the Peace Accord has been uneven and has suffered from weak execution capacity and
lack of domestic resources, due to insufficient tax revenue effort.
5.    Economic policies have been subject to fluctuations during the political cycle. In
the run up to the 2000 presidential elections, the Government pursued expansionary
monetary and fiscal policies resulting in a widening of the current account deficit, a
depreciation of the currency and the loss of foreign exchange reserves. Macroeconomic
conditions were aggravated by adverse terms of trade movements, particularly due to
depressed coffee prices, and unprecedented weather related conditions, including the
impact of Hurricane Mitch in late 1998.
6.    The economic pattern of expansionary policies followed by a period of austerity
had an adverse impact on the banking sector. The expansionary policies initiated in
1996, for example, increased liquidity in the banking system and led to a credit boom.
But, since the credit boom took place in a context of poor banking supervision and
prudential regulation, the economic downturn resulted in a sharp increase in non-
performing loans (NPLs), which firther compromised the soundness of the financial
sector.
7.    Recent Economic Developments'.    The first two years of the Portillo
Administration have been marked by some important accomplishments. Faced with a
deteriorating macroeconomic situation, the Government, upon assuming office, assigned
high priority to stabilizing the economy. It pursued initially a policy of restraining
expenditures and liquidity through aggressive open market operations. As a result, the
budget deficit for the combined non-financial public sector was lowered to 2.2% of GDP
in 2000, interest rates on bank loans declined sharply from an average of 27% in late
1999 to less than 20% a year later. Capital began to flow back to the country and
international reserves increased sharply to $1.8 billion at the end of 2001 (close to 5
months of imports). The real economy, however, did not benefit as much as expected
from the improvements in macroeconomic policies, since economic growth remained
only slightly above population growth in 2000, in part due to restrictive fiscal and
monetary policies.
8.    The economy suffered additional set backs in 2001, as the sharp decline in coffee
prices (the country's main export) and the global economic slowdown contributed to
further reduce economic growth to only 2.1 % for the year. The value of exports declined
by 11% in 2001 and the trade balance widened to US$ 2,290 million. A relaxation of
fiscal policy at the beginning of the year led not only to a higher budget deficit (2.8% of
GDP) but prompted increased domestic and foreign borrowing2.
'This section is based on the analysis presented in the Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report
No.24235-GU, to be discussed by the Board together with this report.
2 The Govemment in November 2001 successfully issued Eurobonds, after receiving a very satisfactory BB
risk rating from two of the major rating agencies.
2



9.    Recent Structural Reforms. The Government has introduced some important
structural reforms. One of the most significant has been in the area of tax revenues.
Since taking office, the Government has taken measures to raise revenues by increasing
the income tax rate from 25% to 31 %, by widening the coverage of the Value Added Tax,
and by eliminating some exemptions. It subsequently took additional measures by
increasing the Value Added Tax (from 10% to 12%), and introduced important reforms to
the tax and penal codes. The Government also introduced reforms to the labor code to
reinforce worker's rights. The reforms, undertaken under the auspices of the ILO,
strengthened the collective bargaining process, the role of minimum wages in the
agricultural sector and the right to strike. Other policy reforms included negotiations of
freer trade agreements with Mexico and other Central American countries.
10.   One of the most important decisions by the Government has been to start
addressing the weaknesses in the banking sector. Since the late nineties, Guatemala's
financial sector has been under considerable stress and has faced difficulties caused by a
deteriorating portfolio. A number of banks suffer from liquidity and solvency problems
and remain in operation due to emergency loans from the Central Bank (Banco Central
del Guatemala - BANGUAT) and deposits from the public sector, including the social
security institute. In recognition of the long term costs of such strategy and the inability
to sustain it, the Government took the important decision to intervene, pay off fully the
depositors, and proceed with the subsequent ,plosure of three small banks in early 2001
The initial. cost of these interventions (close to US$200 million) was absorbed by the
Central Bank.
11.   The Government is committed to modernize financial sector legislation. Some of
the laws, such as the Central Bank Law, date back to the 1940s. Congress has already
approved the most important pieces of legislation, establishing a new legal framework for
the financial sector. A new Money Laundering Law was enacted in December 2001
aimed at strengthening prevention and detection of money laundering activities, and a
package of four basic financial laws was approved by Congress at the end of April 2002.
This package included a new Banking and Financial Groups Law, a new Central Bank
Law, a new Banking Supervision Law, and a new Monetary Law. These new laws,
prepared with analytical support from the Bank, IMF and IDB, have given Guatemala a
state of the art financial sector legislation. The challenge now is to implement them in
order to strengthen and modernize the financial sector.
12.   The Government's Macroeconomic Program. The Government of President
Portillo is now in the process of solidifying the management of macroeconomic policy,
while developing a strategy to reactivate the economy and introduce a poverty reduction
program. The Government has prepared a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
which establishes key goals for the next four year, aimed at improving the country's very
poor social indicators and the conditions in the rural areas. One of the Government's
main priorities is to reestablish a stable macroeconomic environment under an IMF-
supported 2001-2003 macroeconomic program. The program-the first of its kind that
Guatemala has had for close to ten years-is being supported by a 21 month Stand-by
3



credit of US$100 million (through December 2003), approved by the IMF Board on April
1, 2002.
13.   The economic program supports policies aimed at generating a stronger fiscal
position and redirecting an ever-increasing share of public expenditures towards the
social sectors. The program would reduce inflation to a rate of 4% to 6% in 2002 (from
8.7% in 2001), narrow the external current account deficit to 4.6% of GDP (from 5.9% in
2001), and maintain the level of international reserves at close to 4 months of imports.
Guatemala is confronting a difficult external environment this year and the Authorities
believe that by consolidating recent macroeconomic gains, with the support of the
international organizations, the climate for trade and investment will improve. Its
policies will also enjoy greater credibility and will prepare the domestic economy to
benefit from the expected recovery of the international economy. With the adoption of
its economic program, the Government expects the Guatemalan economy to grow by
more than 2.0% in 2002, and 3.0% in 2003.
14.   The success of the program depends in great part on the ability of the Government
to secure the required financing. As noted in the CAS Progress Report, the country will
need approximately US$225 million of un-identified financing to cover the needs of the
program in 2002-2003. These requirements arise from an expected current account
deficit of close to US$1.06 billion per year, a small budget deficit of the consolidated
government (which includes the losses of the Central Bank), the amortization of some
US$1.14 billion of loans coming due, and also the additional funding that might be
needed to support the financial sector modernization process (including the initial
contribution by the Government to the newly created Deposit Insurance Fund). The CAS
Progress Report indicates that the country can count with substantial financing from the
private sector. Besides the expected capital flows and in particular the remittances from
Guatemalan expatriates (currently the largest source of foreign exchange earnings for the
country), the country anticipates receiving as much as US$175 million of foreign
investment per annum. But even with these expected inflows, the Government will need
some US$210 million of foreign exchange reserves and will have to rely on the support
of the international financial organizations in order to be able to meet the expected
financing needs.
15.   There are a number of factors and possible developments that could place the
success of the program at risk. The failure of the global economy to recover as expected
would delay the associated improvement in economic conditions. In turn, tax revenues
would be lower than expected and the Government would be faced with the need to
reduce expenditures further or increase taxes during a period of slow economic growth.
Such scenario would place additional financial burden on the financial sector, given that
both enterprises and the household sector could continue to have difficulties servicing
their loans. Another important risk is that political pressures for higher public spending
could emerge as elections near next year. Failure to adhere to the budget deficit targets
for the next two years would place strong upward pressures on interest rates, the
exchange rate, and, inevitably, on inflation. Signs that the Government is not complying
with the program could lead quickly to capital flight.
4



16.   An important area of vulnerability for the Guatefialan economy, which could
undermine the success of the Govermment's program, is the fragility of the financial
sector. Off-shore and off-balance operations are not reported; thus they are not regulated
and anecdotal information suggests that both off-shore and off-balance operations amount
to the same volume as regulated operations. A number of banks in the regulated sector
continue suffering from liquidity and solvency problems. The new legal framework
approved by Congress in recent weeks will provide the tools that the Guatemalan
authorities need to address the fragility of the financial sector. This proposed loan would
support the Government's financial sector reform program, including the recently
approved new legislation, the elaboration and adoption of the norms and regulations
needed to make these laws applicable, and the implementation of a bank capitalization
mechanism for the resolution of a number of weak banks. This proposed loan would
parallel a recently approved US$200 million loan from the IDB, and be accompanied by
a small technical assistance loan (US$5.0 million) to support the implementation of the
reforms.
B.    Links to Poverty Reduction
17.   Guatemala has one of the lowest per capita incomes in Latin America (US$1,670
in 2001) with about 56% of the population under the poverty line. The Government's
financial sector reform program will have a bearing on poverty reduction by restoring
confidence in the banking system and reducing the probability of a deeper financial crisis
and the resulting economic disruption and high fiscal cost. Moreover, in the longer-run,
the reform program will have an impact on reducing poverty by stimulating economic
growth and by broadening access to financial services, particularly to small and medium
enterprises (SMEs). Since this proposed loan would be an important support for the
Government's reform program, it would also contribute to poverty reduction. These links
are discussed below:
18. Improving Guatemala's financial system depth will help sustain long-term
growth and reduce poverty. There is a strong evidence of a causal link between financial
depth and soundness and economic growth.       Different measures of financial
development, at a point in time, help predict subsequent economic growth, even after
account is taken of other determinants of growth3. In turn, the international experience
clearly shows a positive effect of growth on poverty reduction. A recent study (Dollar
and Kraay, 2000) suggests that growth in per capita GDP would rise almost one-for-one
the income of the poor4.
19.   The Government's financial sector reform program involves the strengthening of
the financial, legal and regulatory framework and the regularization/resolution of a
3 A review of evidence on the contribution of financial system development and growth is presented in
Caprio and Honohan (2000).
4Dollar, David and Kraay Aart, "Growth is Good for the Poor", the World Bank 2000. The positive impact
of growth on poverty reduction is supported by extensive research, including Gallup, John Luke; Radelet,
Steven; and Warner Andrew, "Economic Growth and the Income of the Poor", Harvard Institute for
International Development, November 1998; Roemer, Michael and Gugerty, Mary Kay, "Does Economic
Growth Reduce Poverty?", Harvard Institute for International Development, March 1997.
5



number of weak and insolvent banks. Strong prudential regulation and the bank
regularization program would help eliminate the uncertainty resulting from the
insolvency problems of major banks in operation, and enhance the capacity of the
financial sector to perform its functions of mobilizing savings and allocating capital to
productive activities, stimulating economic growth. Sustained economic growth, in turn,
should help reduce poverty in Guatemala.
20.   Broadening access to financial services to under-served sectors of the
population will help reduce unemployment and poverty. Shallow domestic financial
markets have magnified credit and output slowdowns in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico,
with particularly adverse impact on small and medium enterprises, which are the first
ones to be cut off from access to credit.  This has resulted in an increase in
unemployment and in a swelling in the ranks of the poor. By reducing the ability of the
banks to lend to related parties, the new banking legislation will contribute to broadening
access to financial services to underserved sectors of the population. The creation of a
Credit Information System, and the enactment of a secured transaction law, in the near
future, will enhance credit risk management and increase access to financing. The
enactment of new financial laws and the resolution of insolvent banks in Guatemala are
necessary but not sufficient condition to expand credit. The efficient implementation of
the new financial legislation will require the enactment of norms and regulations and
some institutional strengthening. Nevertheless, once completed, these financial sector
reforms should make, over time, the supply of credit larger, cheaper and more accessible
to micro and SMEs, and to low-income households. This is likely to have a significant
impact in reducing poverty in a country where underemployment is as high as 42%.
21.   Reducing the risk of a deeper financial crisis in Guatemala will imply big gains
in poverty reduction. The Government's financial sector reform program involves the
enactment of basic financial laws and prudential regulations, with the objective of
reducing the risk of a banking crisis. Recent experience shows that financial crisis entail
huge fiscal costs that crowd out social spending, with dramatic effects on poverty
increases. The fiscal cost of the 1999 banking crisis in Indonesia amounted to 50% of
GDP5. The Brazil crisis of 1994 had a fiscal cost of about 13% of GDP, and the Mexican
banking crisis of 1994/1995 has left a debt to the Government, not yet fully realized, of
about US$100 billion, about 20% of GDP. To face these costs, governments must adjust
other expenditures, generally social expenditures and other investments, which comprise
a large share of the budget, with devastating effects on the levels of poverty6 and future
rates of growth and competitiveness. The Guatemalan government has already allocated
about 1% of GDP to reimburse the depositors of three intervened banks. More resources
will be needed to complete the cleaning of the remaining insolvent banks. This reduces
the possibility of using these funds for social programs. A reduction in the risk of a
banking crisis would, therefore, have a significant payoff in terms of both avoiding the
5 See the World Bank, Finance for Growth. December 20, 2000.
6 The 1982-82 Brazilian debt crisis caused incomes of the poor to decline by as much as 33%, well above
the decline in average income. See De Ferranti, David and Perry Guillermo, Securing our Future in a
Global Economy Chapter 5, p. 78.
6



increase in the ranks of the poor caused by a financial crisis and in liberating public funds
for use in poverty reduction programs.
II.    GUATEMALA'S FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Fragility of Guatemala's Banking Sector
22.   Guatemala's banking sector comprises two segments: a regulated segment
composed of 31 banks (3 additional private banks are being liquidated) with assets
equivalent to 34.8% of GDP, and an unregulated segment (i.e. outside the purview of the
Superintendency of Banks-SB), estimated to be as large as the regulated one. Most banks
operate at the center of financial conglomerates7 that include a related, unregulated,
offshore bank as well as relatedfinancieras, insurance companies, securities brokers, and
companies engaged in leasing, factoring, credit cards, and warehouse business, which
may be regulated or unregulated.  The unregulated entities cater exclusively to
Guatemalan residents. Three of the regulated banks have Government ownership:
Crddito Hipotecario Nacional de Guatemala, Banco de los Trabajadores and Banco de
Desarrollo Rural (about 13% of the banking system assets), and six banks have majority
foreign ownership (about 9.6% of the banking system assets). Lending to related parties
is estimated to account for about 25% of total lending. There is also a Government
ownedfinanciera: Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional (CORFINA).
Table 1. Composition of the Regulated Financial System - March 2002
Type           Number        Assets      Assets as %   Assets as % of
I_(Q million)      of total       GDP
Banks*                    31         56,155         89.3           34.8
Financieras               20         4,171            6.6           2.6
Exchange Houses            8            38           0.1            0.02
Warehouses                17           190           0.3            0.1
Insurance**               1 8        2,118           3.4            1.3
Bonding Companies*"       13           220           0.3            0.1
Source: Superintendency of Banks of Guatemala
* 3 private banks are being liquidated
** figures are for March 2001
7It is estimated that there are 23 financial conglomerates in Guatemala.
7



Table 2. Structure of Reulated Banks - March 2002
Type          Number    Capital as share  Deposits as a  Loans as a
of system's      percent of    percent of
capital      systems' total  system's total
Local Private*         22           61.7            77.4           77.8
State-Owned             3           14.0            13.0           9.3
With Foreign Capital    6           24.3             9.6           12.9
Total                  31          100.0            100.0         100.0
Source: Superintendency of Banks of Guatemala
* 3 private banks are being liquidated. Prior to their intervention, these banks accounted
for 6.5% of total deposit in the system. As of December 31, 2001, their negative capital
represented -3 8.8% of the system's total capital.
23.   The regulated portion of the financial sector has shown signs of stress since 1998,
and a number of banks are clearly insolvent. Nevertheless, the real financial situation of
the regulated banks is obscured by lack of information and inadequate accounting
practices. Reported figures for March 2002 would indicate that the sector is well
capitalized, with capital equivalent to 14% of risk-weighted assets, compared to a
required capital ratio of 10%; and a return on equity (ROE) of about 3%. This picture
hides substantial under-provisioning of NPLs, which was 9% of all loans8. If these loans
were provisioned adequately, a number of banks would present severe capital shortages.
It is likely that the unregulated segment is even more undercapitalized. A recent review
of the banking sector by the Bank and the IMF, as part of the preparation of a Financial
Sector Assessment Program (FSAP)9, showed that six banks are affected by chronic
liquidity and solvency problems. Three of them had, at the end of March 2002,
outstanding liabilities with BANGUAT that amounted to several times their book capital.
The largest of the other three is affected by chronic liquidity problems, relies on public
sector deposits (including deposits from the Social Security System-IGSS).
24.   In February/March 2001, the Government intervened three of the medium/small
insolvent banks, under the provisions of the 1999 Law for the Protection of Savings
(FOPA), when these banks proved unable to meet their clearing house liabilities with
BANGUAT. The Government has refunded the depositors of these banks through a line
of credit of Q2.2 billion (1% of GDP) extended to these banks by BANGUAT.
BANGUAT's support to the insolvent banks poses a heavy financial burden on this
institution, which is already affected by a negative net worth estimated at about 8% of
GDP, and compromises its capacity to conduct monetary policy.
8 The level of NPLs in the financial system is probably larger since NPLs may have been transferred to the
unregulated off-shore segment.
9 Two joint World Bank/IMF missions visited Guatemala as part of the FSAP. The first visit took place in
July 2000 and the second in September 2000.
8



B.    Shortcomings of the Financial Sector Institutional, Legal and Regulatory
Framework.
25.   The fragility of Guatemala's financial sector is the result, inter alia, of an
oversized banking system that includes a significant unregulated off-shore component;
weak monetary and financial legal and regulatory framework; and poor banking
supervision. In recent years, this situation has been aggravated by large swings in
macroeconomic policies and significant capital flows. The FSAP mission analyzed the
main shortcomings of the financial sector institutional, legal, and regulatory framework.
Some of these shortcomings are discussed below:
26. Inadequate institutional framework for the conduct of monetary and financial
policy. Until the recent approval of a new Central Bank Law, Guatemala's obsolete
financial sector legislation was disperse in several pieces of legislation, most of them
approved in the 1940s, namely: the Bank of Guatemala Organic Law as the core
regulation, the Monetary Law, Law of Monetary Species, the Temporary Exchange
Regime Law (which was later derogated by the Free Foreign Exchange Negotiation Law)
and the Banking Law. This legal framework was increasingly disconnected with the real
situation of the financial sector. The 1985 Constitution introduced important reforms,
including regarding the objectives and composition of the Monetary Board (MB). Flaws
in the Bank of Guatemala Organic Law limited an appropriate formulation and execution
of monetary and financial policy. These flaws included:
Multiplicity of objectives. Within the previous legal framework, BANGUAT had a
multiplicity of objectives, without a clear mandate to formulate monetary policy and
preserve price stability, which is the fundamental objective of a modem central bank.
BANGUAT's objectives included, among others, the mandate to safeguard the
liquidity and solvency of the banking sector, and favor the development of productive
activities. With respect to the financial system, BANGUAT had the authority to
regulate interest rates, set limits to the expansion of bank loans, and establish capital
controls, while the SB is in charge of banking supervision.
Lack of political and operational autonomy. Under the previous legal framework,
BANGUAT lacked the political autonomy needed to adopt decisions in monetary
matters. Its operational autonomy was further limited by the structure and functions
of the MB. The structure of the MB, which comprises representatives of the
Govemment and the corporate private sector, including banking institutions, gave rise
to conflict of interest between the MB and BANGUAT.
Lack of financial autonomy. The legal framework did not establish clearly the
obligation of the State to maintain the central bank's capital over time, to ensure its
solvency and capability to conduct monetary policy. Currently, BANGUAT has a
negative net worth of about 8% of GDP, the result of accumulated losses in previous
years generated by the monetary, exchange and credit policies of the MB.
9



Lack of accountability and transparency. There was no accountability framework
regarding monetary and financial policies, and the transparency of monetary policy
was further weakened by inappropriate accounting practices, and lack of disclosure of
BANGUAT's income statements.
Vulnerability due to discretionary and unlimited lender-of-last-resort (LOLR)
facilities. The existence of open-ended and highly discretional LOLR facilities made
BANGUAT vulnerable to external pressures to solve not only bank liquidity
problems, but also bank insolvency situations. This situation threatened sound
monetary policy, and led to moral hazard.
Vulnerability due to flaws in the payment system. The payment system has serious
implicit credit and liquidity risks for BANGUAT. These risks stem from the implicit
guarantee of BANGUAT in the coverage of clearing house balances, and the absence
of delivery-versus-payment in the settlement of foreign exchange and securities
operations. Since most non-cash payments are made by checks, BANGUAT is
subject to potentially large losses from the associated uncollateralized overdrafts.
There is also considerable operational risks in the payment system resulting from the
manual clearing of checks at BANGUAT.
27.   Deficient prudential regulatory framework  The previous legal and regulatory
framework was not characterized by clear and stable rules of the game. This situation
allowed excessive discretionality in its decisions to the regulatory authorities.  In
addition, there is a large number of, up to now, unregulated financial intermediaries,
including off-shore entities. Since most regulated banks own unregulated entities, they
have been able to utilize the unregulated entities to circumvent legal reserve
requirements, to hide impaired assets and loans to related parties, or generate phony
capital for regulated banks. Some deficiencies of the previous regulatory framework
include the following:
Deficient loan classifications rules. Loans were classified mainly on the basis of the
length of the past-due period, without regard to the borrower's capacity to pay
considerations, and no distinction was made between consumer, housing and
commercial loans. Loans were classified individually (loan by loan) rather than by
debtor. There was no provisioning requirement for loans classified in category A,
while about 90% of the system's loan portfolio is classified in this category.
Provisions were applied to the loan net of guarantees, but the latter is often
overvalued. In addition, the SB was not legally empowered to enforce the immediate
constitution of required loan-loss provisions, and lacked the adequate legal basis to
impose penalties on banks and/or bank administrators for non-compliance with loan
classification and provisioning requirements.  As a result, the coverage ratio
(provisions/NPLs) is only 23.5%'°.
10 This ratio is calculated with respect to all the contaminated portfolio. The coverage ratio increases to
82.7% if calculated with respect to the portfolio without real guarantees.
10



Deficient prudential norms regarding the treatment of loan losses.  In clear
contradiction with accepted international practices, increases in loan-loss reserves did
not have to be recorded as an expenditure in the bank's income statement. This
overstated the bank's profitability. Also, banks were able to delay substantially the
constitution of loan-loss provisions required by the SB.
Flawed regulation and control of lending to related parties. Legal reforms initiated
in September 1999, introduced tighter limits (40% of the bank's capital) on loans to
related parties. However, as under the previous legislation the SB did no have the
power to presume the existence of related parties, banks had much time and discretion
to declare their related parties, while the burden of proof fell on the SB. Also,
penalties for non-compliance were inadequate. Thus, in the three banks intervened in
March 2000 it is estimated that 95% of their loans were connected loans.
Lack of consolidated accounting. Capital adequacy and risk exposures in the
unregulated segment of the financial sector are unknown due to lack of consolidated
accounting.
Weak early correction system. There was no framework for early regularization and
enhanced supervision of troubled banks. As a consequence, preventive actions and
interventions were delayed. For example, the cost of the protracted intervention of
the three banks was about Q2.0 billion, or six times their paid in capital.
28.   Weak enforcement of prudential regulation. The supervisory capacity of the SB
is severely affected by lack of information, poor supervisory practices, and severe
personnel shortages.
Limited information. The information requests by the SB and BANGUAT is not
always presented as required in terms of adequacy, timeliness and reliability. Also,
the absence of borrower information limits the supervisory capacity of the SB.
Limited supervisory coverage. Structural weaknesses in prudential regulation are
compounded by the inability of the SB to supervise the entire banking system.
Inspections in-situ focus on troubled banks, with less troubled banks subject only to
extra-situ inspections. The SB faces many requests of investigation from the judicial
system not related to supervision of risks. These requests involve staff that could be
dedicate to bank supervision.  Also, lack of consolidated supervision of
conglomerates, part of which are unregulated, poses the risks that capital may be
insufficient to support all the risks of the financial system.
Inadequate legal support. The SB did not have adequate legal support for its
inspection activities, since it had limited authority for accessing information, and for
enforcement and sanctioning. The SB could not control significant changes in the
ownership of banks, which debilitated "fit-and-proper" standards. In addition, there
was no legal protection under the law for bank supervisors.



29.   Deficient judicialframework for the resolution of insolvent banks. The Law for
the Protection of Savings (FOPA) introduced in 1999, was a powerful tool to intervene
insolvent banks, but entailed major risks, due to potentially unlimited access to
BANGUAT's resources. Bank intervention required authorization of the MB, which
resulted in delays, and banks in difficulties were allowed to remain open until liquidation
was declared by a judge. This protracted process allowed for assets stripping and
increased the risks of losses to depositors and BANGUAT. Since the FOPA Law left to
the discretion of the banks the decision to create a guarantee fund to reimburse
depositors, the fund was never created.
30.   Constraints to credit access. Access to credit is largely limited to the members
of a financial conglomerate. Lack of access to credit by unrelated enterprises and SMEs
is the result of the following limitations:
Deficient legal andjudicialframeworkfor secured transactions. The use of collateral
to mobilize credit in Guatemala is extremely low, compared to other developing
countries. The legal framework for immovable collateral is reasonably good, but the
judicial process of foreclosure is flawed. The legal framework for the use of movable
collateral to secure credit is absent.
Lack of a centralized credit information system.  In Guatemala bank secrecy
regulations is extended not only to depositors but also to borrowers. Lack of credit
information reduces the ability of banks to improve their credit risk management
ability, particularly with regards to the monitoring of large credit exposures to single
borrowers or groups of related borrowers.
C.    The Government's Financial Sector Reform Program
31.   Financial Sector Reforms during the 1990s.    The Guatemalan authorities
introduced some financial sector reforms in the early 1990's, which included:
liberalization of interest rates, unification of legal reserve requirements, reduction of
barriers to entry and expansion of financial services. In the context of a Bank adjustmnent
operation' , approved at the end of 1992, steps were taken to restructure state banks and
improve prudential regulation and banking supervision. The objective with respect to the
state banks was to rationalize their role in financial intermediation through a restructuring
of several intermediaries (BANDESA, BANVI and CORFINA), by downsizing or sale of
operations, and the redeployment of financial intermediation activities to the private
sector. These objectives have been partially met. Both, BANDESA and BANVI have
ceased operations.  (BANDESA    has been substituted by a new   two-tier bank
BANRURAL, and BANVI has ceased to operate as a bank and its functions have been
transferred to two local banks); and CORFINA has been downsized.
" The Economic Modernization Loan (EML), an adjustment operation of US$120 million, approved in
November 1992, supported a broad reform agenda, including promoting financial sector reform through
restructuring public banks and improving prudential regulations and bank supervision. The financial sector
component was cofinanced by a US$132 million loan from the IDB.
12



32.   Attempts to reforrn prudential regulation and banking supervision in the early
1990's encountered strong opposition from the commercial banks, who obtained a
Constitutional injunction against the proposed reforms. In 1994, the Government
established the Financial Modernization Commission which, through dialogue and
negotiation, was able to agree with the financial community on the implementation of
improved prudential norms in the following areas: (i) classification of assets at risk; (ii)
regulatory capital; (iii) loans to affiliated and related parties; (iv) loan refinancing; and
(v) central risk unit database.  These reforms were an important improvement in
prudential regulation but, as explained in the previous section, fell short of meeting
international standards. In addition, they involved a large number of decrees and other
changes in the original banking legislation that were issued in piecemeal fashion. With
hindsight, it is clear that it would have been more effective if the Government had
amended the Banking Law. More recently, in 1999, Congress approved the FOPA Law,
and in December 2000, it approved the Law of Free Negotiation of Foreign Exchange,
which lifted the prohibition on on-shore banks to operate in dollars.
33.   During the 1990s, banking supervision improved, and the SB started to apply the
CAMEL'2 rating system to individual banks. Also, the SB was granted some functional
independence (not legal independence) under Decree No.23-95. However, the enhanced
supervision only applied to the regulated segment of the banking system, leaving out the
off-shore activities and the activities of other members of a financial group.
34.   The New Program of Financial Sector Reforms. The results of the recent
FSAP made it clear that the past piecemeal financial sector reforms had not achieved the
intended modernization of the financial sector. The Guatemalan authorities, with
assistance from the Bank (as part of post-FSAP technical assistance provided by Bank
staff), the IMF and the IDB, have now embarked on a financial sector reform program
aimed at addressing the sector's problems in a comprehensive manner. The reform
program involves:
A) Financial Sector Legal/Regulatory Reforms:
(i)   reform of the monetary policy legal framework for the conduct of monetary
and financial policy, including the capitalization of the Central Bank;
(ii)  reform of the financial sector legal framework aimed at: strengthening the
regulation of financial groups and create an orderly market exit mechanism,
enhance credit risk management, and increase access to financing;
(iii)  reform of bank supervision legal framework aimed at strengthening the
autonomy of the SB and its legal and institutional capacity to supervise
financial groups, and rise banking sector regulation towards international
standards and enactment of legislation to prevent money laundering to reduce
illegal activities and comply with international norms;
(iv)  presentation to Congress of new legislation on insurance, secured transactions,
and non-bank financial intermediaries, to expand credit access.
12 The CAMEL bank classification system stands for capital, assets, management, earnings, liquidity, and
sensitivity to risks.
13



B) Bank Regularization/Consolidation Program:
(i)   Establishment of a mechanism   to  handle consolidation  and
recapitalization of banks;
(ii)  Regularization or liquidation of several insolvent banks; and
(iii) Consolidation of the banking system through mergers and acquisitions
C) Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks and BANGUA T
(i)   Technical assistance to both institutions to enable them to implement the
reforms
35.   The Government's efforts in the legislative front have resulted in the approval by
Congress of five major pieces of monetary and financial legislation between October
2001 and April 200213. The package of laws approved in April 2002 will become
effective on June 1st 2002.
*  Money Laundering Law (Ley Contra el Lavado de Dinero y Otros Activos)
approved on November 28, 2001, and enacted on December 17, 2001;
*  Central Bank Law (Ley Orgdnica del Banco de Guatemala), approved April 23,
2002;
*  Monetary Law (Ley Monetaria), approved April 24, 2002;
* Banking Supervision Law (Ley de Supervisi6n Bancaria), approved April 25,
2002; and
* Banking and Financial Groups Law (Ley de Bancos y Grupos Financieros),
approved April 29, 2002.
36.   These laws were prepared with technical advice from the Bank, IDB and IMF.
The basic norms and regulations to implement the new legislation include about 15
regulations proposed by BANGUAT and 37 regulations proposed by the SB. The
passage of the four basic financial laws and of the Money Laundering Law has given
Guatemala a state of the art financial sector legal framework. The implementation of
these laws represent a major challenge to the authorities.
A)    Financial Sector Legal/Regulatory Reforms
37.   New Central Bank Law. The new Central Bank Law addresses most of the
shortcomings of the previous legislation. It has the following salient features:
Clear statement of objectives. It establishes that the fundamental objective of the
central bank is to achieve and maintain price stability, and that the functions of
the institution will be implemented giving priority to meeting this fundamental
objective. This modem approach substitutes the "developmental" approach of the
earlier law. It also establishes that the functions of the MB will not detract the
13 The proposed new laws were initially submitted to Congress on September 2001
14



central bank from achieving its fundamental objective. The law also redefines the
instruments of monetary policy in function of the main objective of the central
bank (open market operations, exchange operations and LOLR operations). Other
articles establish the treatment in case of deficiency of bank reserves.
Greater autonomy. Autonomy is fundamental for a central bank to be able to
take decisions in monetary matters. The new law reaffirms the role of the MB to
determine the monetary, credit and exchange rate policy of Guatemala, but
delegate to BANGUAT, as an autonomous entity, the capacity to implement such
policies through an Implementation Committee (Comite de Ejecuci6n), which is
part of the structure of the central bank. This provides greater clarity as to who is
in charge of monetary policy. The new law also establishes that the President and
Vice-president of BANGUAT would be nominated by the President of the
Republic for a period of four years and establishes the basic qualifications for
these positions and the causes for their removal, as well as of the elected members
of the MB.
Greaterfinancial autonomy. Financial autonomy implies that the State should
guarantee the maintenance over time of the central bank's capital. This is very
important because an eventual shortfall in its capital could limit the capacity of
the central bank to implement monetary policy. In turn, the central bank should
transfer its eventual surpluses to the Treasury, after making the reserve provisions
established by the law. The new law establishes that the net surpluses and deficits
derived from the implementation of the monetary policy will be absorbed by the
State; that the State should absorb the accumulated cost of the monetary,
exchange and credit policies of the central bank; and define more clearly the
relationships between the State and BANGUAT. The law also establishes that the
Ministry of Finance should absorb the accumulated losses suffered by the central
bank as a result of the past monetary, exchange and credit policies. Within three
months of completed the audit of BANGUAT, the Ministry will issue long term
public debt titles with zero interest rate to cover the accumulated losses of the
central bank until December 31, 2001 and restore the equity of the central bank to
an appropriate level, but in any case not lower than zero. Subsequently, the
Ministry will issue public debt to cover the yearly losses of the central bank.
These bonds will be tradeable in the market.
Greater transparency and accountability.  A  central bank should have
transparency in the sense of informing the public of the objectives of its monetary
policy; and the political, legal, institutional and economic framework in which it
is formulated. Transparency is important to improve the efficacy and coherence
of the monetary policy by committing the monetary authorities to clear goals and
instruments. Accountability obliges the monetary authority to inform to elected
officials and the public of the obtained results and the causes of these results.
Transparency and accountability reduce the uncertainty in the markets and
facilitates longer term decision making. The new law includes a number of
provisions concerning transparency and accountability, including the following:
15



o the financial statements of BANGUAT have to be elaborated according to
internationally accepted norms and principles, and be audited by a firm of
external auditors;
o  the President of BANGUAT will appear before Congress twice a year to
give account of the results of the monetary, exchange, and credit policies;
and
o  BANGUAT will periodically publish information of its activities, general
balance and financial statements, as well summaries of the debates of the
MB with respect to the determination of the monetary, exchange and
credit policies.
Limited lender of last resort facility assistance. The new law establishes clear
limits to the central bank activities as a LOLR. It specifies that the central bank
will be able to provide credit to banks in the system solely to cover temporary
liquidity deficiencies, based on a report prepared by the SB and collateralized
with loan portfolio or real state. The amount of the loan will be up to 50% of the
bank's computable equity, at an interest rate no lower than the average lending
rate applied by the petitioner bank. The credit will be granted for 30 days, which
can be extended for half of this term. The law prohibits the Central Bank from
engaging in other activities such as to: (i) give loans to persons or companies,
except banks in the system under a sound LOLR policy; (ii) acquire securities in
the primary market, give loans or guarantees to the State or its decentralized and
autonomous entities; (iii) participate directly or indirectly in any commercial
enterprise; (iv) cover any overdraft in the reserve accounts of the banks; and (v)
cover any overdraft in the monetary accounts of the State or its decentralized and
autonomous entities.
Improved reserve requirement rules. The new law establishes the operations that
are subject to reserve requirements as well as the basis for the regulation that has
to be issued with respect to reserve requirements. With the new law, the reserve
accounts in the Central Bank could be remunerated totally or partially as
determined by the MB.
38.   New Monetary Law. The core of the previous legislation on monetary matters
date from 1945 and 1946. The new Monetary Law modernizes the monetary legislation,
particularly in the area of exchange policy.  The new law guarantees the free
convertibility of the currency, and the free movement of capitals, in line with the Law of
Free Acceptance of Foreign Currency, approved in December 19, 2000.
39.   New Banking and Financial Groups Law. The main features or the new law
are the following:
Improved bank licensing provisions. The new law establishes the minimum
entry requirements for new banks, indicating the aspects to evaluate such as the
quality of the shareholders and administrators of new and existing banks. It gives
the MB the faculty to deny an application or to revoke it if there has been
16



presentation of false information. It also provides the SB with the faculty to deny
the participation of promoters, shareholders or administrators who have any
impediment under the law. It also regulates the transfer of bank shares and
provides for the SB authorization when these transfers involve 5% or more of the
paid capital of a bank. These provisions will reduce the room for arbitrary
decisions present in the previous legislation. The new law also establishes the
prohibition that entities not subject to SB supervision mobilize resources from the
public, except savings and loan cooperatives. The cooperatives remain exempted
from the law because they are ruled by specific laws.
Consolidated supervision and regulation of financial groups, including off-
shore banking. The new law includes norms for the constitution, organization
and functioning of financial groups. These groups consist of a controlling
enterprise and two or more affiliates such as banks,financieras, exchange houses,
insurance companies, warehouses, credit card issuers, leasing and factoring
companies, and stock exchange companies. The SB has now the faculty to
presume of the existence of a financial group if there are common interests among
its members, as defined in the law. The new law empowers the SB to carry out
consolidated supervision of all the enterprises of a financial group. The objective
is to evaluate and control the risks faced by the group as a whole. To this
purpose, the SB will have access to information on the operations and activities of
each of the enterprises in the group on a solo and consolidated basis. Also, the
law requires the elaboration and presentation of financial statements on a
consolidated basis by the financial groups. In addition, the law establishes
lending limits to related parties.
Equal treatment of off-shore banks. The new law establishes the treatment given
to off-shore entities (which are licensed in a foreign country but have their assets
and liabilities in Guatemala) that form part of a financial group, in order to
measure the risks of the group. These include the need to agree in writing to be
subject to the SB consolidated supervision of the group (except with respect to the
identity of depositors and investors), the exchange of information between the SB
and the supervisory authorities of the country of origin, the application of
international standards with respect to capital norms, and that the parent company
agrees to cover any capital deficiency of the off-shore subsidiary. Under the new
law, off- shore entities will have to obtain authorization to operate within six
months of the effectiveness of the law.
Improved bank regulatory framework and prudential rules. The new law
establishes the minimum capital of banks and financial groups to 10% of the risk-
weighted assets, and indicates that the weights to be applied will be established by
regulation. The law also indicates that if the computed capital is lower than the
required capital, there is capital deficiency (deficiencia patrimonial), which
requires the adoption of regularization procedures established in the law. The law
also allows the SB to propose to the MB modifications to capital requirements to
respond to market circumstances and to respond to risks other than credit risk
17



(exchange rate, interest rate, and operational market risks)  The law also
establishes that the enterprises regulated by it will apply accounting norms issued
by the MB at the proposal of the SB, and based on generally accepted accounting
principles and international accounting norms (IAS).
Imrproved governance and transparency of banking institutions. The law
establishes rights and duties of the banks' and groups' management councils and
requires that the enterprises of the financial groups, and the groups themselves,
maintain a system of internal controls appropriate for the scale of their business,
which should include clear rules as to the delegation of authority and
responsibilities and separation of functions. It empowers the SB to determine, in
a general way, the minimum requirements to be incorporated in the contracting of
external auditors and the scope of the external audit, with the aim to make their
work guide adequately the users of the audited financial statements. In addition,
the law provides the legal basis for the SB to request all the necessary information
to evaluate any entity subject to its control. Also, the law establishes that the
banks will disclose and disseminate sufficient information about their financial
situation. This information has to be precise, correct and timely, and the financial
groups have the obligation to provide this information by enterprise and at the
group level.
Limited deposit insurance scheme. The new law creates a deposit insurance fund
(Fondo de Protecci6n al Ahorro, FOPA) to guarantee bank depositors the safety
of their deposits, up to Q20,000 (US$2,600), or its equivalent in foreign
exchange, per individual or entity in a local bank or subsidiary of a foreign bank.
Deposits in off-shore entities are not guaranteed.  The guarantee fund is
administered by BANGUAT and constituted by: quotas paid by participating
banks, return on investments of the fund, proceeds from liquidation of banks and
sale of adjudicated assets, and Government contributions. The FOPA is subject to
the supervision of the SB.
Effcient bank resolution mechanism. The new law establishes mechanisms for
bank restructuring and market exit of insolvent institutions. These go from a
regularization plan (in case of capital deficiency) proposed by the bank and
approved by the SB, to suspension of operations, exclusion of assets and
liabilities, and liquidation. Causes for suspension of operations include (i) when a
bank has suspended payment of its obligations, and (ii) when the capital
deficiency is greater than 50% of the required capital. The MB can decide the
suspension of operations of a bank if it fails to present a regularization plan, if the
plan is rejected by the SB, or if the bank fails to meet the plan's targets. The law
establishes the maximum time between suspension of operations and the transfer
of assets and liabilities of the suspended bank; as well as the maximum time for
the request by the SB to the MB of the revocation of the bank's authorization to
operate and the initiation of the execution process, if it is rejected by the SB, or if
the bank fails to meet the plan's targets. While under a suspension regime, all the
legal measures against the bank are also under suspension. At the latest, the next
18



day after suspension of operations, the MB, at the request of the SB, must
nominate a committee for the exclusion of assets and liabilities (Junta de
Exclusi6n de Activos y Pasivos), which will decide on the transfer of assets and
liabilities of the suspended bank and on the participation of the FOPA. Within
five days after the conclusion of the transfer of assets and liabilities, the Junta will
send a report to the MB about the results of the process. Within another five days,
the MB, at the request of the SB, will revoke the authorization for the bank to
operate, and request the initiation of the liquidation process to the competent
judicial authority.
Improved sanctions provisions. The new law defines the infractions to the
banking law and incorporates a regime of sanctions for the defined infractions
applicable to banks or financial groups. This system reinforces the effectiveness
of the supervisory function of the SB. The fines are determined in US dollars, or
their equivalent in local currency, to maintain their value over time.
40.   Earlier Money Laundering Legislation. The MB approved, in May 2001, new
regulation covering Prevention and Detection of Money Laundering Activities. This
regulation established some important concepts that must be followed by the banks such
as "know your customer" rules and requires a register to be kept of all transactions
exceeding the equivalent of US$50,000 (too high for international standards). The
regulation specified that the Board of Directors of each supervised institution must create
a unit or appoint an officer responsible to monitor prevention of money laundering
activities. Nevertheless, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) concluded that
Guatemala lacked a Money Laundering Law, since it has a number of unregulated off-
shore banks. In June 2001, it put Guatemala in the list of "non-cooperative" countries.
This classification generates many problems for Guatemala's banks in dealing with
correspondent banks. Guatemala has initiated actions to be taken out of that list,
including: (i) approval of a Money Laundering Law drafted with the assistance of
external consultants; (ii) participation of SB and BANGUAT personnel in training
seminars on money laundering in other countries; and (iii) participation as observers in
FAFT meetings.
41.   New Money Laundering Law. This new14 law contains the relevant elements
required in a statutory provision to prevent and deter money laundering activities,
namely, (i) makes money laundering a crime and provides for appropriate sanctions; (ii)
creates a Specific Unit Against Money Laundering within the SB ("Intendencia de
Verificaci6n Especial"); (iii) provides for reporting, collection, and analysis of suspicious
or unusual transactions (in excess of US$10,000); (iv) authorizes the freezing and seizing
of assets reasonably suspected to be proceeds of crime; and (v) authorizes the sharing of
such information with other jurisdictions; and cross border legal assistance in prosecuting
money laundering crimes, including collecting evidence and extraditing accused
criminals. The MB has nominated the head of the newly created "Intendencia", which
started operating as of May 30, 2002. An additional set of rules and regulations, is under
preparation to implement the key provisions contained in the new law.
14 The new law approved by Congress in October 2001 became effective on December 17, 2001.
19



42.   New Bank Supervision Law. The main features of the new law are the
following:
Enhanced supervisory and sanctioning power. The law specifies the functions
of the SB, which include, among others, to: enforce the laws and regulations;
supervise the financial entities to ensure that they maintain adequate liquidity and
solvency; provide instructions to overcome deficiencies; impose sanctions; have
access to all relevant information; carry out its vigilance and inspection on a
consolidated basis; evaluate the policies, procedures, norms and systems of the
entities; issue norms concerning the minimum requirement and scope of external
audits, request from the MB the liquidation of entities subject to its vigilance and
inspection, in accordance with the law; exchange information with other
supervisory agencies; and propose to the MB regulations and norms on matters of
its competence.
Greater autonomy. According to the new law, the superintendent is the legal
representative of the SB. He is nominated by the President of the Republic for a
four year term, starting October Is, selected from a list proposed by the MB. The
draft law establishes the eligibility requirements and impediments for exercising
the position of Superintendent, and the causes for his removal from the position.
The new law confirms that the SB is a technical element, part of the central bank
system, acting under the direction of the MB.
Legal protection of SB staff The law establishes that the SB should provide a
mechanism,to finance the legal expenses for the defense of its functionaries and
employees, in the case of legal actions against them derived from the exercise of
their functions. This provision applies also to functionaries no longer in their
positions when the causes for the legal action took place. The legal protection
provides also for the right of personal immunity to the Superintendent of Banks
and authorities of the institution.
Other Regulatory/Institutional Reforms
43.   Strengthening of the Payment System. The Government of Guatemala is in the
process of strengthening the payment system. This involves new regulations to provide a
clear definition of BANGUAT's responsibilities, improved governance and risk
management rules, and enhance efficiency, as well as institutional reforms. Since most
of the transactions and payments in Guatemala are made through checks, the authorities
have given priority to the automation of the Checks Clearing Center. This involves the
purchase of appropriate hardware and software and the issuing of norms that will regulate
the electronic clearing and settlement. The expectation if that the electronic clearing of
checks will be in place by the second half of 2002. Subsequently, the authorities
contemplate the implementation of a payment system for high value transactions, which
are the most important from the point of view of the systemic risk for the central bank.
20



44.   Creation of a Credit Information System (CIS). The new Banking Law
establishes the need to create a Credit Information System (Central de Riesgo). The CIS
will be a computerized information system which can be accessed by the banks in the
system to evaluate a potential client. The SB and the Bank agreed on the principles that
should govern the data base to preserve the debtor's right to privacy and the accuracy of
the information. These include: (i) the information on a debtor has to be aggregated
about arrears and classification without disclosing the name of the banks; (ii) the debtor
needs to have access to the information in the CIS to be able to verify its accuracy; and
(iii) the SB should check the information provided by the banks during its in-situ
supervision and if it is not accurate, the SB should apply sanctions to the bank. The SB
expects to have the regulation of the CIS ready by late 2002 and the access by the banks
to the data base through the internet by December 2002.
45.   Insurance Legislation. Insurance companies are a fundamental part of the
financial system, and their activities have potentially significant effects on the banking
sector and the payments system. The authorities will prepare a draft insurance law for
presentation to Congress with the following characteristics: (i) reaffirm the principle that
insurance companies will be under the supervisory authority of the SB; (ii) incorporate
the principle of consolidated supervision; (iii) establish a regime of sanctions against
risky practices; (iv) follow international supervision standards (issued by the International
Association of Insurance Supervisors); (v) allow local insurance firms to operate abroad
and allow foreign firms to operate in Guatemala; (vi) define clearly the functions and
responsibilities of the insurance intermediaries; (vii) establish norms for corporate
governance; (viii) redefine the insurance market; (ix) actualize the solvency parameters
of insurance companies; (x) make information more transparent; and (xi) establish an
orderly market exit mechanism.
46.   Secured Transactions Legislation. The Guatemalan authorities recognize the
need for a judicial instrument that would help to reduce the constrains that some groups
of the economy have to access credit. The authorities will prepare a draft law that would
facilitate the use of movable guarantees such as inventory, cattle, equipment, inventories
and receivables, would open access to credit to groups that only have this type of
guarantees. This use of movable guarantees require the constitution of a registrar. The
new law would norm the form in which movable guarantees can be used, reduce the cost
of registering these type of guarantees and modernize and transform the process of
accepting, registering, controlling and executing movable guarantees.
47.   Non-bank Financial Intermediaries Legislation. The new law would define the
entities that would be regulated and the agency that would supervise and control these
entities. Since the supervision of these entities would exceed the capacity of the SB, the
authorities would assess the convenience of creating a separate agency. The authorities
intend to prepare a draft new law that would also establish the limits to the operations that
the non-bank financial intermediaries can do, conditions for entering and exiting the
market, solvency requirements and sanctions to be applied for not complying with the
law.
21



B)    Bank Regularization/Consolidation Program
48.   Even under the old banking regulation, which overstates the healthy financial
condition of the Guatemalan banks, a number of banks in operation are clearly insolvent
or- undercapitalized. The enactment of the new regulatory framework will make even
more obvious the fragility of many banks, and will precipitate the need to implement an
orderly bank regularization/resolution program. The new legislation provides the legal
structure for such a program. The Government has already started to take actions to
liquidate insolvent banks --three have already been intervened by the' MB, and it
contemplates the resolution of two other insolvent banks, if they are not capitalized by
their owners. The Government also intends to support the capitalization of relatively
weak banks and further consolidation of the banking system through mergers and
acquisitions of undercapitalized banks by more solid banking institutions.
49.    Liquidation of the intervened banks. In early 2001, the authorities intervened
and suspended the equity and administrative rights of the shareholders of three small
banks: Promotor, Metropolitano and Empresarial, which accounted for about 6.5% of
total deposits in the system. The authorities also intervened two financieras: Financiera
Agrocomercial and Financiera Metropolitana. The interventions were made under the
previous banking legislation (Banking Law and FOPA Law), on the grounds that these
institutions had: (i) persistent liquidity problems and had ceased to honor the payment of
checks against them for lack of funds; (ii) negative -equity position or insufficient capital
to meet the minimum legal requirements; (iii) a high concentration of their loans on
related individuals or companies, contravening the dispositions issued by the SB and MB;
(iv) persistent lack of compliance with other norms issued by the SB and MB; and (v)
lack of compliance with the program of financial restructuring established by the MB.
50.   Following the intervention, and fearinig a possible negative effect on the
confidence of the depositors in other banks in the system, the authorities decided to fully
reimburse the depositors of the intervened banks'5. To this effect, BANGUAT extended
a contingency credit line to these banks for a total of Q1,703 million (US$216 million),
about 1% of GDP 6. Most of these credits (Q755.6) were in the form of term certificates
of deposits. The contingency credits were not used to repay shareholders and related
enterprises or interests on deposits and investments. It is estimated that about 20% of this
amount could be recovered with the sale of real estate given as guarantee by the owners,
but the rest would be a loss for BANGUAT.
51.   On September 11, 2001, the authorities sent Metropolitano and Promotor to
judicial liquidation, and on November 13, they -sent Empresarial to judicial liquidation.
Liquidation of banks under the previous legislation is very slow and implies a high cost
15- A limited deposit insurance fund was created in 1999, but never became operational because the
establishment of the fund had to be agreed upon by the participating banks, and they never reached an
aygreement.
' Since September 1998, these three banks had received liquidity/restructuring loans from the BANGUAT
for about Q1,598 million (about US$233 million), in cash and certificates of deposit. The size of these
credits relative to their capital amounted to 442% in the case of Promotor, 298% in the case of
Metropolitano, and 103% in the case of Empresarial.
22



to the State, because the Central Bank is obliged to reimburse not only all the depositors,
but also other creditors such as bond holders. Under the provisions of the previous
legislation, the MB decided on the liquidation of an intervened bank after reviewing a
report from the SB assessing if the intervened bank meets the conditions to continue
operating as a bank. Although under that legislation it was not possible to revoke the
banking licenses of these banks until the liquidation is completed, the authorities have
indicated that sending them for liquidation precludes any possibility of these banks
operating again in the system. This is due to the fact that to send the banks for
liquidation, the intervention authorities had informed the SB that these banks are not
viable. The authorities have agreed to supply the Bank with a legal opinion on that
matter.
52.   Since 1999, BANGUAT has also provided sizeable liquidity assistance to other
troubled banks. These include Banco del Ejercito (Q433 million) and Banoro (Banco del
Nororiente, Q140 million). By mid November 2001, in anticipation to the approval of
the financial laws, both banks cancelled their debts to BANGUAT. Nevertheless, these
two banks, as well as a public bank: Credito Hipotecario Nacional remain in difficult
financial conditions, and the authorities are evaluating options for their resolution, which
could be restructuring and sale or liquidation.
53.   Estimated cost of the Bank Regularization/Resolution Program. Table 3
presents a preliminary estimate of the net cost, part of it already incurred, of closing the
three intervened banks and of six additional banks, classified as category 4 and 5 under
the SUPER classification'7, which the Government intends to solve under the new
Banking Law. The estimated net cost of liquidating the three intervened banks is about
US$252 million. Part of this cost has been already incurred by BANGUAT.
Table 3. Estimated Cost of the Bank Regularization/Resolution Program
Categories of Banks        Net Cost in Net Cost in Comments
Q million  US$ million
1. Three intervened banks in   1,969.0      252.4 Cost partly incurred by BANGUAT
categories 4 and 5 being
liquidated under previous
Banking law
2. Five banks in category 4 and 5  339.7     43.5  Cost to be incurred by FOPA
to be merged or liquidated under
new Banking law
3. One public bank with deposits  293.2      37.6 The cost to be incurred by the
guaranteed by the State                           Government if all the deposits are
repaid would be US$48.8 million
Total cost                     2,601.9      333.5 About 2% of GDP
Source: Mission's calculation based on SB information as of March 2002.
54.   Liquidation of insolvent banks under the new law. Five other insolvent banks
would be resolved under the mechanism established in the new Banking Law, which is
geared to limit the loss of the Government to the deposits covered by the new deposit
'7 The SUPER classification is a bank classification system used by the SB, based on the internationally
accepted CAMEL.
23



insurance scheme. The estimated cost for the Government of closing these banks could
be up to US$43.5 million. This cost would be covered by FOPA. In addition, the
restructuring of an undercapitalized public bank could cost US$37.6 million, if all the
depositors are repaid. This cost would be covered directly by the Government, since the
deposit are guaranteed by the state. Since, initially, FOPA will not have enough funds to
compensate depositors, the Government would have to use other sources of funds to
support the resolution of the six private banks. One option under discussion is to use
CORFINA, a government owned development agency, as a vehicle for the issuing of
bonds (with Government guarantee) to fully pay the depositors. However, this would
require a modification of CORFINA's enabling statute to enter into this kind of activities
temporarily, and the Government is exploring other alternatives.
55.   Consolidation and regularization of banks. The weak financial situation of the
banks in Guatemala will be more clearly exposed when the new banking legislation
enters into force and the banks have to apply the new classification and provisioning
norms and the information is collected on a consolidated basis. Table 4 shows the
estimated needs for additional capital under the new law for banks classified as category
1 to 3 under the SUPER classification excluding off-shore subsidiaries. The new capital
should be provided mostly by the owners of the banks and not by the State, but in
practice the Government may be required to provide part of this capital as loans to the
banks to prevent a generalized non-compliance with the new legislation. Assuming that
the Government would have to lend 1/4 of the additional capital required to the banks,
this would amount to nearly US$150 million. This is not counting the potential capital
needs of the off-shore banks, which could be as large as those of their regulated
counterparts.
Table 4. Estimated additional capital required by banks under the new legislation
excluding off-shore banks)
Categories of Banks        Net Cost in Net Cost in Comments
Q million  US$ million
Banks in categories 1 to 3 that  4,909.2    629.4 Most of the capital should be
require additional capital under                  provided by the bank shareholders
new law                                           or mergers and acquisitions
Five banks classified as 1    278.9       35.8 Five banks with total assets of
I US$1,150 million
Seventeen banks classified as 2  4,630,3  593.6 Seventeen banks with total assets of
And 3                                           US$5,200 million
Source: Own calculations based on SB data.
Adjustments:                    Banksl       Banks4       Rest
General Provisions for A loans  1%           3%           1%
Provision for delinquent due loans  50%      75%          60%
Provisions for past due loans   75%           100%        100%
Provisions for repossessed assets  90%        100%        100%
Investments                     10%          30%          20%
Other assets                    20%          50%          30%
Exchange rate                   7.9
24



56.   Mechanism to handle consolidation and regularization of banks. The new
banking legislation drastically limits the ability of BANGUAT to continue providing
funds to distressed banks to recapitalize, restructure or close them.  However, it
significantly increases the authority and capacity of the SB and the MB to deal with
distressed banks through: (i) agreement with the SB on regularization/capitalization
plans, and (ii) the exclusion of assets and liabilities of insolvent banks, prior to their
liquidation, and the transfer of these assets and liabilities to good banks for their
management. With the enactment of the new legislation, the need for Government
financial support for the regularization/resolution of banks will substantially increase
because: (i) the FOPA, will not have accumulated enough funds to cover the insured
deposits, and (ii) the banks receiving the excluded assets and liabilities may face capital
restrictions and may need partial financing from the Government. To solve these
problems, the authorities are committed to the establishment of a "Fiduciary Fund for
Bank Capitalization" that would help strengthen the capital position of the banks in
Guatemala through the granting, for only one time, of subordinated credits that can be
counted as Tier 2 capital by the recipient bank.
57.   The Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization" (FFCB). The FFCB would be
created as a trust fund outside of the balance sheet of BANGUAT. It would provide
subordinated credits for the following purposes:
a) Regularization Plans. The FFCB will be able to assist banks that have agreed
on a Regularization Plan with the SB;
b) Merger processes. The FFCB will be able to assist banks in a merger process
approved by the SB;
c) Purchases or acquisitions. The FFCB will be able to assist the acquiring bank
that have agreed on the purchase or absorption of smaller banks and have the
approval of the SB; and
d) Incorporation of excluded assets and liabilities. The FFCB will be able to
assist the bank(s) that acquire the assets and liabilities excluded by the board
of exclusion.
58.   The FFCB would be funded by the Ministry of Public Finance from external
loans, other government resources and recuperation of the loans it makes and/or sale of
the instruments that it acquires in its operations. It would be managed by an Executive
Committee composed of representatives of BANGUAT, the Ministry of Public Finance,
and the SB. The FFCB would use three types of instruments to capitalize banks, all of
which could be counted as Tier 2 capital: (i) subscription of preferred shares without
voting rights; (ii) the purchase by the FFCB of a subordinated bond issued by the
participating bank that can be converted into equity; and (ii) the granting of a
subordinated loan by the FFCB to a recipient bank. The FFCB would operate following
the Operating Principles described in Annex II.
59.   Use of the FFCB to support bank regularization plans.    Banks with
regularization plans with the SB could receive loans from the FFCB. These banks should
have adjusted their accounts according to new prudential regulations. The eligibility
25



requirement would be strict with respect to the initial level of tier-one capital. FFCB
assistance would be provided at least, on a matching basis (1:1 ratio), with additional
ownership capital. Moreover, the recipient bank would agree to undergo an institutional
diagnosis and to prepare a business and institutional development plan approved and
monitored by the SB.
60.   Use of the FFCB to support mergers and acquisitions. Banks that voluntarily
enter in a process of strengthening or mergers and acquisitions could receive assistance
from the FFCB. Government financial support would be justified on several grounds.
One justification is that following a takeover of a small bank, depositors may initially
withdraw their deposits, which could put the merged bank into liquidity difficulties. To
reduce this risk, the acquired bank would have to be free of existing short-term debts to
BANGUAT for past liquidity assistance. The FFCB could extend loans to refinance
these obligations in the context of consolidation transactions that restitute the liquidity
and capital adequacy of acquired or consolidating banks. To prevent a failed merger, the
SB would require that merging banks redress shortfalls in capital requirements, that
management is suitable, and that the merged entity has a strong business base. The
shareholders of banks that receive FFCB assistance for voluntary restructuring, mergers
and acquisitions, would have to make capital contributions in a ratio of 0.6:1. In these
cases, the FFCB funds would go to the acquiring or resulting bank. Banks that undergo
voluntary restructuring should have adjusted their accounts according to the new
prudential regulations and have a business plan approved by the SB.
61.   Use of the FFCB to support bank closure and resolution. The bank resolution
scheme in the new Banking Law provides for the exclusion of assets and liabilities of a
failed bank, and their transfer to other institutions. The liabilities (deposits) would be
assumed by a solvent bank. To circumvent the problems associated with due diligence
practices, the transfer of assets is made through an special purpose vehicle (SPV) 8 for
the securitization of assets. The SPV would charge a fee for managing the assets and
issue participations. The institution that assumes the deposits receives in exchange
participations in the SPV. FOPA funds could be used to enhance the value of the assets
transferred, either by financing the SPV or the bank that receives the deposits. The FFCB
could participate in the process of bank closure and resolution in a complementary
manner to the FOPA.
62.   Under this scheme, the bank that acquires the deposits may find that it needs
additional capital to meet the regulatory capital standards. The FFCB could help these
banks to meet regulatory capital standards through subordinated loans which count as
tier-two capital. These banks should have been pre-qualified by the SB and rated 1 or 2
under the SUPER rating system. These banks do not need to present restructuring plans,
and their shareholders do not need to contribute additional capital in paripasu with the
FFCB loan. To provide liquidity to the acquirer banks, the FFCB could also purchase
(with cash) from these banks, participations senior issued by the SPV, that they received
together with the deposits.
'" A fiduciary fund created by the commission for the exclusion of assets and liabilities in a bank selected
by the SB.
26



63.   Diagnostic of the banking system. The regulatory authorities, have agreed to
undertake a comprehensive examination of the banks in the system to assess their need
for additional actions to strengthen their balance sheets and the possibilities for a
consolidation of the banking system through mergers and acquisitions. To this effect,
private banks will be independently classified using the SUPER classification scheme,
which uses a number of rating parameters measuring, inter alia, liquidity, solvency,
capital adequacy, portfolio quality and provisioning, profitability, and operational
efficiency. (The detailed methodology used for this classification would be agreed with
the Bank). Banks in categories 1 and 2 would be the most capable of acquiring weak
banks; while categories 4 and 5 are likely to be the weakest banks, candidates for closing
or acquisition by other banks. The authorities would also estimate the capital shortfall in
the domestic private banking system by comparing the figures for actual capital with
those required by the SB under the new prudential regulation, and making adjustments
for shortfalls between actual loan-loss provisioning and the classification of the bank's
loan portfolios according to the new prudential regulations.  The .capital shortfall
estimations would be made based on information on a consolidated basis, including off-
shore entities. Based on the above assessment, the Government would develop an
indicative plan of action to assist the identified banks to implement needed capitalization
programs, either by the current owners or through mergers and acquisitions of these
banks with/by more solid banking institutions. This diagnosis would be the basis to
elaborate a plan for the use of FFCB assistance.
C)    Strengthening of the SB and BANGUAT
64.   The implementation of the financial sector reform  program  represents a
considerable challenge for the Guatemalan authorities. The Bank is preparing a US$5.0
million technical assistance loan to assist BANGUAT and the SB to implement the new
financial legislation, and prepare future legal reforms. The TA loan would finance
consulting work, training and computerized systems. The IDB is working with the SB
authorities in the development of a technical assistance program supported by a US$1.0
million FOMIN facility (non-reimbursable). These funds are being used for: (i) drafting
the regulations of the financial laws; and (ii) improving supervision tools, including
software to link the SB and the banks for consolidated supervision.
65.   The Bank's technical assistance loan would complement the IDB program. It
would have three components:
Orderly exit of insolvent banks. Assistance to the SB to: establish the parameters
to determine the viability of a bank and to evaluate banks' rehabilitation plans;
implement the legal and financial mechanisms for the transfer of assets and
liabilities of insolvent banks; and for the administration and sale of residual
assets.
Fiduciary Fundfor Bank Capitalization. Assistance to BANGUAT to establish
and operate the FFCB, including: elaboration of legal documents for the
constitution and operation of the fund, of manuals to operate the fund, develop
27



policies for investment of fund resources; design strategies for the sale of
participations; personnel training and external audit.
Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks. Assistance to the SA to:
establish the Credit Bureau; expand access to credit to low income groups through
the reform of the Secured Transactions Law; review and modernization of the
loan recovery regulation to accelerate the execution of guarantees and the loan
recovery processes; reform of the legal regime of non-bank financial
intermediaries; reform of the legal regime of investment companies (investment
funds and investment banks); adoption of international standards in the area of
accounting principles and information dissemination; and development of an
insurance law.
Fight against money laundering. Assistance to the SB to detect, prevent and
combat laundering of money and other assets.
III.  BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.    Bank Assistance Strategy in Financial Sector Reform
66.   The Bank assistance strategy for Guatemala, outlined in the 1998 CAS (Report
No. 18036 GU), discussed July 14, 1998, covering through the FY99-01 period,
emphasized the World Bank Group support to build social cohesion and strengthen
participatory decision making, reduce poverty and exclusion, and rise economic growth
and maintain stability. With respect to the financial sector, the 1998 CAS, pointed out to
the lead of the IMF and the IDB in providing support for financial sector legal and
regulatory reform, but emphasized that the Bank would continue to monitor the situation
and, as needed, complement the work of the other agencies, in particular with respect to
the supervision of the financial system and its capacity to support investment in
competitive productive activities. A new development, not contemplated at the time of
writing the 1998 CAS, was the rapid deterioration of the country's economic outlook and
the worsening financial condition of the banks in Guatemala. In response to these
developments, the Bank has provided strong support to Guatemala's financial sector
reform program through technical advisory services as a follow up to the FSAP
conducted during the first half of 2001. The Bank is now ready to support the enactment
of several fundamental financial sector laws and the consolidation of the banking system
with an adjustment operation and a companion technical assistance loan.  Board
presentation of the proposed financial sector adjustment loan is being accompanied with
presentation of a CAS Progress Report (No.24235-GU).
67.   A new CAS, covering the FY02-04 period, is scheduled for Board consideration
later this calendar year, and important inputs to the design of a future assistance strategy
are currently underway. These include major analytical and consultative work on
poverty, which continues to be the main thrust of the Government's development
priorities and the focus of the World Bank Group's assistance. A decision has been made
28



to present a Progress Report at this time because the Government has accelerated much
needed reforms in the financial sector and has reached an unprecedented agreement with
the IMF on a Stand-by program. The Government has shown determination to take the
required actions, and the financial sector reforms are now an integral part of the
Government's macroeconomic program. The Bank is proposing to support the financial
needs of the program with this proposed loan, and the timing of this support is crucial to
ensure macroeconomic stability and establish the pre-conditions for growth, which is
necessary for tackling poverty. The CAS Progress Report presents the Bank's proposed
assistance strategy as reflecting Government objectives and priorities areas for World
Bank Group assistance. It will be used as the basis for discussion with civil society and
donors, and, once their views are incorporated, will be presented to the Board of
Directors as the World Bank Group's FY02-04 Country Assistance Strategy.
68.   Rationale for adjustment lending. The justification for a quick disbursing
operation in support of financial sector reforms is based on budgetary needs. Under the
IMF program, the Government is committed to maintaining a certain level of
expenditures in the social sector. The expected financing gap during the 2002/2003
period will be covered with net internal borrowing, privatization proceeds and external
borrowings, including an IDB loan of US$200 million. However, as indicated before, the
country will need approximately US$225 million in additional funds to support the
financial sector modernization process (including the initial contribution by the
Government to the FOPA). The equivalent in Quetzals of the bank loan would be used to
increase the FOPA funds and to fund the FFCB, the two main tools that the Government
will have for bank resolution, thus reducing the need for the Government to use
budgetary resources in the early years of the banking reform. Although the main
justification for the loan is on budgetary grounds, Guatemala also faces a deteriorating
Balance of Payments situation, resulting from large losses in the coffee sector (its main
export), in tourism (its main foreign exchange eamer) and uncertainty about remittances
in view of uncertain economic prospects in the U.S.
B.    Bank Experience with Policy Based Lending in the Financial Sector
69.   The design of the proposed adjustment operation described in Section IV takes
into account the lessons leamed from the Economic Modernization Loan (EML) to
Guatemala, approved in November 1992, as well as other recent financial sector
restructuring operations in Latin America. The EML supported a broad reform agenda,
including: (i) strengthening of public finances through a comprehensive tax package and
reform of tax and customs administration; (ii) improvement of public enterprise
efficiency; (iii) further trade liberalization; (iv) promotion of financial sector reform
through restructuring public banks and improving prudential regulations and bank
supervision; and (v) intensifying efforts to alleviate poverty by increasing allocations to
basic health and education services. The ICR rates the EML as satisfactory; and
concludes that the program achieved most of its major objectives, and that the
sustainability of most of the objectives is likely. However, the ICR also identifies some
weaknesses in the design, which was too complex in view of the institutional capacity,
and in the design of the financial sector component. In particular, the ICR found that in
the financial sector, compliance with EML conditionality involved a large number of
29



decrees and other changes in the original banking legislation that were issued in
piecemeal fashion, and concluded that it would have been more effective if the
Government had amended the banking law. The most important lessons from the EML,
relevant to this operation are the following:
*  Design of reform programs in countries without prior experience with Bank-
supported adjustment operations should aim for simplicity and compactness. It may
be preferable to develop several sequential adjustment operations tailored to the
Borrower's implementation capacity rather than one large operation;
*  A realistic assessment of the Borrower's institutional capacity is critical to the success
of a structural adjustment program;
*  In the development of a reform program, the importance of dialogue between the
executive branch and representatives of other sectors of society cannot be
overemphasized;
*  The appraisal of programs which may involve a significant number of normative
changes and a complicated design of conditionality should be based on thorough
analysis. The Legal Department should be involved from the outset to enable it to
examine and consider altemative legal approaches, if any, to achieve the desired
objectives; and
*  While specificity is essential to avoid ambiguity with respect to adjustment loan
conditionality, some flexibility is also called for.
70.   Following the lessons from the EML, this proposed operation supports the
enactment of a number of new basic financial laws, avoiding a piecemeal reform of
numerous regulations of the old laws. Also, the Legal Department has been closely
involved in the preparation of this loan, including in the Bank review of the package of
financial laws submitted to Congress. Finally, in the preparation of this loan, the Bank
has had extensive contacts with members of Congress, and private bankers, to discuss the
rationale behind the legal reforms.
71.   Lessons learned from two adjustment loans in Argentina and two in Mexico,
which involved policy reform and bank resolution transactions, were also considered in
the design of this operation. The Argentina loans are the Argentina Provincial Bank
Privatization Loan and the Argentina Bank Reform Loan (both approved in 1995). These
two loans supported serious restructuring of some of the weakest banks in Argentina,
involving nearly a quarter of the banking system prior to the 1995 international banking
crisis. Some of the lessons learned'9 from the Argentina loans, which are relevant to the
design of the bank resolution transactions component of the proposed operation, are the
following:
* Structural/ownership change in banking requires resources to re-structure past
losses. These financial resources facilitate acceleration of structural changes that
19 The Joint Implementation Completion Report of these two loans was issued on June 30, 1999. For the
Provincial Bank Privatizations, US$1.3 billion were disbursed to achieve ownership changes at 16 banks
with total assets of about US$6.0 billion. The Bank Reform Loan helped nineteen bank consolidation
processes involving private sector banks.
30



would otherwise not occur, or occur at a more modest speed, leading to overall higher
fiscal costs;
* It is difficult to find good buyers. Even when sufficient financial resources are
available, there will be selection bias in the roster of potential acquirers. Troubled
banks tend not to attract prime-rated buyers. It is unclear whether program design
features alone (such as more incentives) can overcome that bias.
* Funds should be disbursed only after the careful review of the individual
transactions; and
* Some failures need to be anticipated. Some of the banks created through these
transactions may require additional restructuring as market conditions change. .
72.   The Mexican loans are the First Bank Restructuring Facility Loan approved in
late 1999 and the Second Bank Restructuring Facility Loan approved in May 2001.
Additional relevant lessons from the Mexican loans are the following:
* Set limited objectives. Over-ambitious objectives, such as the restoration of the
solvency and soundness of the banking system, is a long-term goal that goes beyond a
single operation. It is more realistic to support a program of reforms with a number
of sequential operations that can be approved based on the success of the previous
ones;
* Disburse against specific transactions. Banking operations should disburse against
the completed resolution of specific bank transactions, not against the promise of
future actions which may not materialize; and
* Ensure that the main implementing agency is the main recipient of the Bank
resources.  Bank funds should be disbursed to the main agency in charge of
implementing the policy reforms, to strengthen the incentives of these agencies to
work in close collaboration with the Bank.
73.   Following the lessons learned from these other financial sector operations, the
proposed loan provides for loan resources to be used to support structural/ownership
changes in the Guatemalan banking sector, and channels the Bank resources through the
BANGUAT, the main implementing agency. In addition, all resolution transactions
supported by this operation would be approved by the Bank. The Bank considered the
possibility of assisting the financial sector reforms with two consecutive adjustment
operations. However, given the fact that all external loans have to be approved by
Guatemala's Congress, which could take time in an electoral period, the Bank considered
that a three tranche loan would ensure availability of resources when needed to support
bank resolution transactions.
31



C.    Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
74.   The Bank has worked in close collaboration with both, the IMF and the IDB, to
ensure a coordinated approach to support Guatemala's efforts to restructure its financial
sector. Financial sector reforms are an important aspect of the IMEF Stand-by program.
The Bank, the IMF and the IDB have worked in close collaboration to provide technical
advice to the Guatemalan authorities in the elaboration of the four basic financial, laws
approved by Congress.  This proposed financial sector adjustment operation was
designed to complement a similar adjustment operation prepared by the IDB in the
amount of US$200 million that went to IDB's Board on May 22, 2002. Both adjustment
operations have similar conditionality with respect to the enactment and implementation
of the four basic financial laws. To maintain consistency in the approach of both
institutions with respect to the implementation of the laws, the Bank loan has
incorporated in its conditionality the implementation, benchmarks agreed between the
Government and the IDB. However, the Bank loan includes additional conditionality
with respect to the creation and implementation of a mechanism to handle the
regularization and consolidation of the banking system, once the new financial legislation
enters into effect. The Bank and the IDB are also coordinating their technical assistance
programs to support the implementation of the new legislation.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Loan Objectives and Description
75.   The broader policy objective of the proposed financial sector adjustment loan is to
support the Guatemalan Government's financial sector reform program, aimed at
bringing about a stronger and better functioning banking sector, able to withstand
external shocks and to increase prudent lending to the private sector, opening access to
groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and
SME financing). The Bank loan would finance the needs of the Government's economic
program related to the strengthening of the financial sector.
76.   The financial sector reform program to be supported by this operation includes
actions already taken or to be taken in the following key areas:
Financial System Legal Reform: The legal reform includes:
(i)   Reform of the monetary policy legal framework to establish a modem
institutional framework for the conduct of monetary and financial
policy, including the capitalization of the Central Bank;
(ii)  Reform of the financial sector legal framework aimed at strengthening
the regulation of financial groups and create an orderly market exit
mechanism; enhance credit risk management, and increase access to
financing;
(iii)  Reform of bank supervision aimed at (a) strengthening the autonomy
of the SB and its legal capacity to supervise financial groups, and rise
32



banking sector regulation towards international standards, and (b)
strengthen the institutional capacity of the SB to supervise financial
groups; and
(iv)  Introduction of legislation to prevent money laundering to reduce
illegal activities and comply with international norms.
* Bank Regularization/Consolidation Program: This program includes:
(iv)  Establishment of a mechanism    to  handle  consolidation  and
recapitalization of banks;
(v)   Regularization or liquidation of several insolvent banks; and
(vi)  Consolidation of the banking system through mergers and acquisitions.
77.   The proposed US$150 million loan would be disbursed in three tranches, one
tranche upon effectiveness and two floating tranches based on compliance with
conditions including specific bank transactions. A first tranche of US$50 million would
be disbursed upon loan effectiveness, in support of up-front reform measures taken by the
Guatemalan authorities. The equivalent in Quetzals of the Bank disbursement would be
transferred by the Ministry of Public Finance to FOPA, to help it respond to its
commitments in case of bank closures. The second and third tranches of US$50 million
each would be disbursed against agreed tranche conditions, when these are met. The
equivalent in Quetzals of the Bank's second tranche disbursement would be transferred
by the Ministry of Public Finance in equal amounts to FOPA and the FFCB, and the
equivalent in Quetzales of the third thranche would be transferred by the Ministry of
Public Finance to the FFCB. It is expected that the first tranche will be disbursed upon
effectiveness, in mid-2002, that the second tranche will be disbursed in early 2003
calendar year, and that the third tranche will be disbursed in late-2003.
B.    Commitments reached under the Proposed Loan
78.   During negotiations, the authorities agreed to include the establishment of the
FFCB in the congressional decree approving the Bank, and presented to the Bank the
following documentation:
*  Draft Letter of Sector Development Policy describing the strategy that the
Government is following for the implementation of the legal and regulatory
reforms, and the resolution of the weak and insolvent banks under the
Govermment's financial sector reform program.
*  Plans of action for the implementation of the approved laws20, specifying the
activities, mechanisms and implementation schedules, and the compliance
indicators (see Annex III) in the following areas:
20 These actions plans and benchmarks have been agreed by the IDB and the Guatemalan authorities in the
context of the prepartion of the IDB Adjustment Operation in support of financial sector reforms. The
proposed Bank operation will incorporate the same benchmarks in its conditionality, to maintain
consistency in the approach of both institutions with respect to the implementation of the reforms
33



v transition to the new system of risk management
/ transition to the new system of consolidated supervision
V Establishing the new accounting and auditing norms
* Evidence that the liquidation of the three intervened banks is irrevocable. The
authorities would present to the Bank the legal opinion of the General Counsels of
BANGUAT and the SB, indicating that once the three intervened banks have been
sent to liquidation (under the previous Banking Law) they will exit as banks in the
system.
79.   Conditions of Board Presentation. The authorities have complied with all the
conditions of Board presentation agreed during negotiations. These include:
 Presentation to the Bank of a signed Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSP),
as agreed during negotiations;
* Maintenance of sound macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the
policy objectives and program described in the LSP; and
* Enactment (announced for June 1" 2002) of four Fundatnental Financial Laws
approved by Congress. These laws are the following: Central Bank Law (Ley
Orgdnica del Banco de Guatemala); Monetary Law (Ley Monetaria); Banking
and Financial Groups Law (Ley de Bancos y Grupos Financieros); and Banking
Supervision Law (Ley de Supervisi6n Financiera).
80.   Effectiveness/First Tranche Actions. A first tranche of US$50.0 million will be
disbursed upon compliance with the following effectiveness conditions:
* Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the
policy objectives and program described in the LSP; and
* Evidence that the FFCB has been legally created, under the terms and conditions
established in the Loan Agreement, with a structure and operational principles and
procedures agreed with the Bank.
81.   Second Tranche Actions. A floating tranche of US$50.0 million will disbursed
upon the following:
* Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the
policy objectives and program described in the LSP;
* Evidence that the regulations of the approved laws have been enacted maintaining
the technical principles agreed with the Bank. These will include:
Central Bank Law: (i) governance of BANGUAT; and (ii) reserve
requirement rules.
34



Banking and Financial Groups Law: (i) entry rules; (ii) minimum risk
management and governance principles to be adopted by banks; (iii)
capital adequacy norms, loan classification and provisioning rules and
other prudential rules; (iv) accounting norms, including consolidation
rules following international standards; (v) exit mechanism including the
procedures related to FOPA; and (vi) sanctions rules:
Bank Supervision Law: (i) mmimum requirements for external audits;
and (ii) SB labor relations framework.
* Evidence that the capitalization of BANGUAT has been completed through the
issuing of bonds to settle past fiscal losses (about Q15 billion)21
* Evidence that new regulations have been enacted to strengthen the payments
system.  These would- include: (i) a clear definition of BANGUAT's
responsibilities; (ii) risk management rules; and (iii) enhanced efficiency;
* Evidence that the benchmarks of the SB plan of action for the application of the
new financial legal framework have been met (see Annex III). These to include:
(i) risk management committees in place for all the banks in the Borrower's
system; and (ii) risk management manuals adopted by all the banks in the banking
system and further verified by the SB;
* Evidence that the supervision procedures and tools to implement the Money
Laundering Law are being applied;
* Evidence that satisfactory progress has been made in carrying out the SB's
program of in situ inspection of the Borrower's national banks (detailed in Annex
IV);
* Evidence that irrevocable actions have been taken to initiate either merger, full
capitalization, or liquidation of two banks identified as undercapitalized in the
inspections to be concluded before August 31, 2002;
*  Evidence that FOPA is: (i) fully operational and premiums are being paid by the
banks; and (ii) has adequate funding to reimburse depositors of banks under
liquidation; and
* Evidence that the FFCB is fully operational, its Operating Principles and
Procedures have been made effective, and a Coordination Unit for its operation
has been created and is adequately staffed.
21 The law establishes that an audit of BANGUAT will be conducted three months after approval of the
law. The Ministry of Finance will have three months after the audit to capitalize BANGUAT.
35



82.   Third Tranche Conditions. A floating tranche of US$50.0 million will be
disbursed upon the following:
*  Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the
policy objectives and program described in the LSP;
* Evidence that the mechanism described in BANGUAT's Law for the transfer of
BANGUAT's annual deficits and surpluses to the national budget has been
included in the draft budget law of 2004 (to be submitted in June 2003);
* Evidence that the new Credit Information System is fully operational, and its
statutory rules governing its operations, as agreed with the Bank, are in place;
* Presentation to Congress for approval new financial legislation, including: (i)
non-banking financial intermediaries, (ii) insurance; and (iii) secured transactions;
* Evidence that the benchmarks of the SB plan of action of the new financial legal
framework have been met (see Annex III). These to include:
(i)   all banks are complying with the norms of risk-based capital;
(ii)  all banks have been supervised (on and off-site) in accordance with the
provisions of the new financial legal framework;
(iii)  sanctions are being applied to banks which are not complying with the
provisions of the new financial legal framework;
(iv)  at least seven (7) financial groups have been qualified by the SB and have
had at least one complete inspection applying consolidated supervision
principles;
(v)   at least seven (7) off-shore banks have been qualified by SB or have
stopped operating in the Borrower's territory or have been cited
(summoned) for illegal operation;
(vi)  an accounting manual for bank operations adopting the international
accounting standards has been approved by the MB;
(vii)  all banks and finance companies in the system have adopted and are
utilizing the new accounting norms; and
(viii) a register for external auditors is operating within SB.
* Evidence that satisfactory progress has been made in carrying out a
comprehensive examination of the banking sector on a consolidated basis,
including off-shore entities, according to the provisions of the new Banking Law;
* Evidence that the FFCB has completed bank resolution transactions (liquidations,
mergers, acquisitions and recapitalizations) requiring additional capital in an
amount of at least US$25 million, including shareholders contributions. The
transactions have to meet eligible criteria agreed with the Bank;
36



*  Evidence that the FFCB continues to operate in accordance to its agreed
Operating Principles and Procedures; and
* Evidence that annual financial audits reviewing FFCB operations are being
carried out.
* Evidence that the Borrower is taking measures to contribute additional funds to
the FFCB to cover eventual shortfall in funds to carry out bank resolution
transactions. The shortfall to be determined on the basis of estimates made by the
BANGUAT with assistance of the SB.
C.    Disbursements, Records and Auditing
83.   Loan disbursement would be made under simplified FSAL disbursement
procedures. The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Bridge Deposit
Account in dollars in BANGUAT. As funds are released, the Borrower will submit a
simplified withdrawal application against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds
into the Bridge Deposit Account for the Borrower's use. If after deposited in the Bridge
Deposit Account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes, the Bank will
require the Borrower to either: (a) deposit into the Bridge Deposit Account an amount
equal to the amount of said payment, or (b) if the Bank shall so request, refund such
amount to the Bank, in which case, the Bank would credit the amount refunded to the
Loan Account for cancellation.
84.   Upon the Bank's request, the Bridge Deposit Account shall be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the Bridge Deposit Account
audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the date of the Bank's
request for such audits.
85.   The Borrower will require BANGUAT to transfer, in its name, funds in Quetzals
equivalent to the first tranche disbursement to an account in the BANGUAT opened in
FOPA's name. The Borrower will require BANGUAT to transfer, in its name, funds in
Quetzals equivalent to half of the second tranche disbursement to the account in FOPA's
name and half to the FFCB account also in BANGUAT. Finally, the Borrower will
require BANGUAT to transfer, in its name, funds in Quetzals equivalent to the third
tranche disbursement to the FFCB account. The Borrower and BANGUAT will enter
into a Subsidiary Agreement that will establish the terms and conditions of the transfer of
funds to the FOPA and FFCB accounts. Prior to second and third tranche release, the
Borrower will submit to the Bank evidence of compliance with each tranche conditions.
D.    Impact, Benefits and Risks
86.   Social Impact. The measures to be supported by this operation would have
important long term social implications, as they would reduce the vulnerability of
Guatemala to a financial crisis, such as those suffered by other developing countries in
the last decade. Just a small reduction in the risk of a banking crisis would have a
37



significant social impact in terms of reducing the potential negative effects on poverty
that a banking crisis would produce, as evidenced by the negative effects of banking
crisis on poverty levels in other countries. A banking system less vulnerable to crisis is
better able to sustain growth and, therefore, avoid poverty. Also, the new financial
legislation will create a more efficient banking system, capable of providing greater.
access to credit by small and medium enterprises, which currently have limited access to
financial services. New legislation in the areas of movable guarantees and non-bank
intermediaries would further increase access to financial services. Greater access to
credit would generate more job opportunities, an important objective in a country with
high rates of under employment (42%), one of the lowest per capita income in the region,
and where about 60 percent of the population is below the poverty level.
87.   Environmental Impact. The legal and regulatory reforms and the bank resolution
program to be supported by this proposed operation are not expected to have any
enviromnental impact. This loan would be ranked C for environmental purposes.
88.   Benefits.  The most important benefit of the proposed loan would be its
contribution to a reduction of the risk of a systemic banking crisis in Guatemala. The
financial sector legal reforms supported by this loan would create the basis for a modem
central bank, improve bank regulation and supervision, and increased transparency in the
banking sector, all of which would reduce the risk of a banking crisis in Guatemala. On
the other hand, the bank restructuring program to be supported by the this operation,
would help the Government to clean up the banking system without the risk of a balance
or payments crisis. A strong and well capitalized banking sector would be in a good
position to lend to the private sector, contributing to economic growth and employment
creation.
89.   Risks.  There are several risks associated with this operation.  At the
macroeconomic level, there is the risk that a slower than expected economic recovery
could prompt the Government to reduce expenditures further or increase taxes. This
would place additional financial burden on the financial sector since both enterprises and
the household sector could continue to have difficulties servicing their loans. More
directly linked to the operation is the risk that the Government may fail to issue the
required regulations or otherwise implement these laws as required. To limit this risk,
release of the loan's second tranche would be conditioned to compliance with a
previously agreed program of implementation of the new laws. Moreover, the technical
assistance loan that complements this loan would provide assistance to the financial
authorities to draft the required regulation.
90.   There are significant risks in the transition from the old to the new legal system.
As indicated above, the new banking legislation will expose more clearly the weak
financial conditions of the Guatemalan banks, and accelerate the need to close the
insolvent banks and regularize the situation of the others through capitalization, mergers
and acquisitions. On the other hand, the new legislation precludes the central bank from
financing the restructuring/resolution of banks. One bad scenario is if the new laws begin
to have effect at a time in which the deposit insurance scheme has no accumulated funds
38



to cover the insured deposits and the Central Bank cannot foot the bill. It is clear that the
authorities need to have the necessary financial resources to close the insolvent banks and
support the consolidation of the banking system. To address these problems, the Bank
has proposed that the equivalent in Quetzals of half of the loan be used to finance FOPA,
and the other half to finance the FFCB. A transitional risk would occur if the creation of
the FFCB is delayed. To reduce this risk, the creation of this trust fund would be
mandated in the same legislative decree from Congress which approves the Bank's, and
the actual creation of the FFCB will be condition of effectiveness. Finally, a major
source of risk is the uncertainty about the capital needs of the off-shore entities. The
comprehensive examination of the banking sector on a consolidated basis, to be
undertaken under the proposed loan, will shed light on this important issue.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
91.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 2002
Attachments
39



ANNEX I
GUATEMALA: PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
1. MACROECON1OMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
Maintain a        A macroeconomic program was      *Presentation to the Bank of a  Maintenance of sound       *Maintenance of sound
supportive        agreed with the IMF supported by  signed Letter of Sector      macroeconomic policy        macroeconomic policy
macroeconomic     a 21 month Stand-by credit of   Development Policy (LSP) and   framework consistent with   framework consistent with
program           US$100 million, approved by the  maintenance of sound          policy objectives and program  policy objectives and
IMF Board 04/01/ 2001           macroeconomic policy           described in the LSP        program described in LSP
framework consistent with
policy objectives and program
described in the LSP
2. REFORM OF MONETARY POLICY LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Establish a       CENTRAL BANK LAW                 *That the approved law has    *Enactment of regulations of
modem             Law approved 04/23/200 1. The   entered into force in its entirety  the law, addressing the
institutional     law provides for                                               following topics:
framework for the  V  definition of main objective:                              "   governance of
conduct of            to maintain price stability                                    BANGUAT; and
monetary and      V   greater financial autonomy                                 V   reserve requirement rules
financial policy     including rules for
capitalization of BANGUAT
in the event of losses as well
as recognition of past losses
by the MOF
I   greater accountability and
transparency including better
governance of JM and
BANGUAT
/ limited lender of last resort
facility assistance to banks
based on strict short term
liquidity assistance
Annex 1 Page 1 of 6



m rles
Strengthen the                                                                  * Capitalization of         * Evidence that the
financial                                                                       BANGUAT completed           mechanism for the transfer of
autonomy of the                                                                 through the issuing of bonds to  BANGUAT's annual deficits
Central Bank                                                                    settle past fiscal losses   or surpluses has been
included in the draft budget
law for 2004 (to be ready in
06/2003.
Strengthen of                                                                   * Enactment of new
Payments System                                                                 regulations to strengthen the
payments system, including:
a clear definition of
BANGUAT's
responsibilities
risk management rules
enhanced efficiency
Modernize         MONETARY LAW                    * That the approved law has
legislation in the  Law approved 04/24/2002, in line  entered into force in its entirety
area of monetary  with the Free Acceptance of
emission and      Foreign Currency Law
exchange policy
3. REFORM OF FINANCIAL SECTOR LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Strengthen        BANKING AND FINANCIAL           * That the approved law has   *Enactment of regulations of
regulation of     GROUPS LAW                      entered into force in its entirety  the law, covering the
financial groups  Law approved 04/29/2002.                                      following topics:
and create an     The law provides for:                                         V   entry rules
orderly market    V   consolidated regulation and                               /   minimum risk
exit mechanism        supervision of financial                                      management and
Annex I Page 2 of 6



~O~JEC-TWES4~~A~C~iNIRI~II-IED ~  .AG1O~TO~BEF~'AKE   ~" ~A~HONST      BE TAKEW-      -.L ,  NSjT-OF BE-TANEM
groups, including off-shore                                  governance principles to
banking                                                      be adopted by banks
V   improved bank licensing                                  V   capital adequacy, loan
requirements                                                 classification and
V   improved bank regulatory                                     provisioning and
framework and prudential                                     remaining prudential rules
rules                                                     /  accounting norms,
V   improved governance of                                      including consolidation
banking institutions                                         rules following
V   creation of an efficient bank                                international standards
resolution mechanism                                      V  exit mechanism including
associated to a limited deposit                              procedures related to
insurance scheme                                             FOPA
V   improved sanctions provisions                            V   sanctions rules
Reduce moral                                                                   * Evidence that FOPA is: (i)
hazard associated                                                              fully operational, and
to bank exit                                                                   premiums are being paid by
mechanisms                                                                     banks; and (ii) has adequate
though a limited                                                               funding to reimburse
and explicit                                                                   depositors of banks under
insurance scheme                                                               liquidation.
funded by the
private sector
Enhance credit                                                                                             * Presentation to Congress of
risk management                                                                                           new financial legislation
and increase                                                                                              including:
access to                                                                                                  V  Non-banking financial
financing                                                                                                     intermediaries Law
V Insurance Law
V   Secured Transactions
Law
Annex 1 Page 3 of 6



*Evidence that the new
.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Credit Information System
is fully operational, and the
statutory rules governing its
operation, as agreed with the
Bank, are in place
4. REFORM OF BANKING SUPERVISION
Strengthen the    BANKING SUPERVISION            * That the approved law has   *Enactment of regulations of
capacity of the SB  LAW                          entered into force in its entirety  the law addressing the
to supervise      Law approved 04/25/2002. The                                 following topics:
financial groups,  law provides for:                                           V   minimum requirements
and raise banking  V  greater autonomy and                                         for external audits; and
sector regulation     accountability of the SB                                 V   SB labor relations
towards           V   legal protection of SB staff                                 framework
international     V   enhancement of licensing and
standards             sanctioning powers
Strengthen the                                                                 * Evidence that the         * Evidence that the
capacity of the SB                                                             benchmarks of the SB plan of  benchmarks of the SB plan of
to supervise                                                                   action for the application of  action for the application of
financial groups                                                               the new legal framework have  the new legal framework
been met (as described in   have been met. These to
Annex III). These to include:  include:
V   risk management         V  risk management
benchmarks (I and 2 in      benchmarks (3 and 4 in
Annex III)                  Annex III)
V consolidated supervision
* Satisfactory progress in      benchmarks
implementing the program of  V  accounting and auditing
in situ supervision of the SB  benchmarks
(summarized in Annex IV).
*Satisfactory progress in
Annex 1 Page 4 of 6



'OBJECT I!UESk ;ZLE>iOC       OMPI ISHEDb.' '4,A';TUO          - OBETAXKEN     a A       S sTO.c'MW     N        7]ONS4TO;Bt-
~~~~~~~~ 1
carrying out a comprehensive
examination of the banking
sector on a consolidated
basis, including off-shore
entities.
Reduce illegal    MONEY LAUNDERING LAW                                           * Evidence that the
activities and    Law entered into force 12/17/2001.                             supervision procedures and
comply with       Main features of the law include:                              related necessary tools to
intemational      V   makes money laundering a                                   implement the Money
nomis                 crime                                                      Laundering Law are being
V   creates a Specific Unit Against                            applied
Money Laundering within the
SB
V   provides for reporting
collection and analysis of
suspicious transactions
V authorizes the freezing and
seizing of assets suspected to
be proceeds of crime
imposes sanctions (jail and
fines) for crimes
V authorizes sharing of
information and cross-border
legal assistance in prosecuting
crimes
5. BANK CONSOLIDATION REGULARIZATION PROGRAM
Strengthen and    * In 03/2001, the authorities                                  * Evidence that irrevocable  * Evidence that the FFCB
consolidate the   intervened three insolvent banks                               actions have been taken to  has completed bank
banking sector to  (Promotor, Metropolitano and                                  initiate either merger,     resolution transactions
prevent a potential  Empresarial) and two financieras.                           regularization, capitalization  (liquidations, mergers,
banking crisis    Two of these banks were sent to                                or liquidation of two banks  acquisitions and
Annex 1 Page 5 of 6



R  M-                                                             /FIISTlyFRfSi          IiitRREISFOHEWD TASF  EB
judicial liquidation on 0912001; the                         identified as undercapitalized.  recapitalizations) requiring
last one was sent intofor liquidation                                                    additional capital in an
on l1212001.                                                                             amount of at least US$25
million, including
shareholder's contributions.
The transactions have to meet
eligibility criteria agreed with
the Bank.
Establishment of a                                 * Agreement to include in the  * Evidence that the FFCB is  * Evidence that the FFCB
mechanism to                                      congressional decree approving  fully operational, its Operating  continues to operate in
handle                                            the Bank loan the establishment Principles and Procedures  accordance to its agreed
consolidation and                                 of the FFCB.                 have been made effective, and  Operational Principles and
regularization of                                                              a Coordination Unit for its  Procedures
banks, providing                                  EFFECTIVENESS                operation has been created and
financial                                         CONDITION                    is adequately staffed.      * Evidence that annual
assistance to                                     * Evidence that the FFCB has                             financial audits reviewing
facilitate: (i)                                   been legally created under the                           FFCB operations are being
liquidation of                                    terms and conditions                                     carried out
banks; (ii) mergers                               established in the Loan
/acquisitions and                                 Agreement with structure and                             * Evidence that the Borrower
(iii) bank                                        operational principles and                               is taking measures to
capitalization                                    guidelines agreed with the                               contribute additional funds to
programs                                          Bank.                                                    the FFCB to cover eventual
shortfall in funds to carry out
bank resolution transactions.
The shortfall to be
determined on the basis of
estimates made by the
BANGUAT with assistance
of the SB.
Annex I Page 6 of 6



ANNEX II
Operating Principles and Procedures of the
Bank Capitalization Fund
FFCB
1.    Introduction. In April 2002, Congress approved a package of financial laws to
modernize and strengthen the financial sector legal and regulatory framework. The weak
financial situation of the banks in Guatemala will become more evident when the new
banking legislation enters into force and banks begin to apply the new classification and
provisioning norms and the information is collected on a consolidated basis. Some weak
banks may become insolvent and relatively strong banks may need additional capital to
meet the legal requirements.
2.    While the new banking legislation drastically limits the ability of BANGUAT to
continue providing funds to distressed banks to recapitalize, restructure or close them, it
establishes an' efficient bank resolution mechanism that goes from regularization plans (in
case of capital deficiency) proposed by the banks and approved by the Superintendency
of Banks (SB), to an orderly process of suspension of operations, exclusion of assets and
liabilities, and liquidation of insolvent institutions. The SB can also encourage the
consolidation of the banking system through mergers and acquisitions,
3.    To assist in the process of bank regularization/consolidation, the government will
establish a "Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization" (FFCB). The FFCB will
participate, together with the private sector, and through different instruments, in the
capitalization of private banks.
4.    Prerequisites for successful implementation of the FFCB. For the FFCB to
operate successfully, the following elements have to be in place:
i)    A resolution mechanism (and enough funds for its implementation) for banks
with negative equity or economically non-viable;
ii)   A prudential regulatory framework in line with Basel principles;
iii)  A Superintendency of Banks with enough capacity and resources to enforce
the implementation of the regulatory framework;
iv)   Realistic diagnosis of the equity position of the entities; and
v)    A critical mass of solvent banks with adequate internal policies and with
adequate management.
5.    FFCB's operating principles and procedures. The remainder of this Annex
sets the basis for the elaboration of the operating principles and procedures of the FFCB.
1. Basic Definitions
2. Operating Manual
3. Eligibility Conditions for Participating Banks
4. Legal Structure and Participants
Annex 2 Page I of 8



FFCB
Basic Definitions
1.    Mission of the FFCB. The mission of the FFCB will be to provide resources--as
capital contributions or credit-to strengthen the equity position of the private banks.
The FFCB will be able to capitalize:
-     Banks that incorporate assets and liabilities excluded from other entities
-     Banks that participate in a merger process approved by the SB
-     Banks that have a regularization plan approved by the SB
-     Banks that absorb other banks with approval of the SB
2.    Objectives. The objectives of the FFCB are:
a)    Strengthening the solvency and stability of the financial system;
b)    Generate the solvency conditions to allow  a stable and sustained
development of the financial sector; and
c)    Facilitate and promote the participation of the private sector in the
capitalization plans.
3.    Resources of the FFCB. To meet its objectives, the FFCB will obtain resources
from:
a)    International organizations;
b)    Ministry of Finance; and
c)    Recuperation of the loans it makes and/or sale of the instruments that it
acquires in its operations.
4.    Operating principles. In order to achieve its objectives, the FFCB will operate
in accordance to principles clearly defined in its Operating Manual (OM). Basic
principles to be included in the OM are:
a) Transparency and technical criteria. The FFCB will operate on the basis of
technical criteria clearly defined, subject to verification and well known by the
parties involved. All decisions will be made on the basis of the application of
such criteria;
b) Market principles. The decisions adopted by the FFCB with respect to the
provision of funds will be based on private investment criteria, within the
framework of its mission;
c) Equal treatment. All financial entities with similar problems will receive
equal treatment. Banks' requests will be evaluated with the same parameters
and criteria in all cases;
d) Temporality. The investments of the FFCB in the banks will be temporary
and will be reimbursed, or sold, within a prudential time frame;
e) Priority of private funding. The operations in which the FFCB participates
will give priority to the provision of private funds, minimizing the provision
Annex 2 Page 2 of 8



of public funds. As a regular principle, the provision of private funds should
be, at least, equivalent to the provision of public funds;
f) No state control. The operations in which the FFCB participates will not have
as a result the control by the FFCB of the shares of a bank; and
g) No subsidies. The provision of funds by the FFCB will not be a subsidy to the
current private shareholders.  The advantage obtained by the current
shareholders of having a better capitalized bank as a result of the participation
of the FFCB will not be considered a subsidy.
5.    Operations in which the FFCB can participate. In function of the guidelines
established in its OM and the regulation on Eligibility Conditions of Participating Banks,
the FFCB will be able to participate in the following operations:
a) Incorporation of excluded assets and liabilities. The FFCB will be able to
assist the bank(s) that acquire the assets and liabilities excluded by the board
of exclusion;
b) Merger processes. The FFCB will be able to assist banks in a merger process
approved by the SB;
c) Regularization Plans. The FFCB will be able to assist banks that have agreed
on a Regularization Plan with the SB; and
d) Purchases or acquisitions. The FFCB will be able to assist the acquiring bank
that have agreed on the purchase or absorption of smaller banks and have the
approval of the SB.
6.    Capitalization instruments to be used by the FFCB. In order to carry out its
mission, the FFCB will have the faculty to use the following instruments. The FFCB will
define which instruments to chose in each case.
a) Preferred shares without voting rights. The FFCB will be able to use these
instruments within the limits established in its OM;
b) Obligations convertible into shares. The FFCB will be able to use these
instruments within the limits established in its OM;
c) Subordinated Loans
7.    All the capitalization operations of the FFCB will be made in cash. The OM will
define the currency in which the operations will be made. The duration of the contracts
will be four (4) years, that could be extended.
8.    Guarantees. In cases of FFCB support for mergers and regularization plans, the
FFCB will obtain guarantees from the shareholders (with more than 5% of the equity), if
the instruments used are convertible obligations or subordinated loans.
9.    Eligibility conditions of participating banks. The eligibility conditions of
participating banks will be described in the Regulation on Eligibility Conditions for
Participating Banks. This regulation will expand on the following principles. (a) that
only private banks can participate and (b) that in no case banks with negative equity or
Annex 2 Page 3 of 8



that are unviable will be eligible. Neither will be eligible banks for which there are
doubts about the veracity of their balance or the information about the financial group to
which they belong.
10.   Private sector participation. As a general rule, shareholders of the banks to be
capitalized will contribute funds in the same amount as the FFCB. The OM may foresee
exceptions and the reasons for them.
11.   Conditionality. The FFCB will be able to impose different conditionality to the
banks to be capitalized (limits on the operations, prohibition to distribute dividends, no
assistance to related parties, etc.) according to the type of operation used for the
capitalization and the particular conditions of each bank. The assets of the FFCB will be
publicly offered and adjudicated to the best offer, on the terms specified in the OM.
12.   Authorities of the FFCB.  The FFCB will have an Executive Committee
integrated by the Minister of Finance, the President of the BANGUAT, and the
Superintendent of Banks, or the persons that they designate.
13.   Legal structure.  The FFCB will have the structure of a Trusteeship
(Fideicomiso) in accordance with the current legislation. The legal form of the FFCB is
described in the document: Legal Structure and Participants.
14.   Evaluation and follow up. The FFCB will be able to hire an auditing company
for the analysis and follow up of the operations in which it participates. BANGUAT and
the SB will provide the information and decisions about the banks required by the FFCB
to carry out its mission.
Annex 2 Page 4 of 8



FFCB
Operating Manual
1.    The OM will establish the procedures and criteria for the operation of the FFCB.
It will incorporate the definitions contained in: a) Basic Definitions of the FFCB, and b)
Legal Structure and Participants of the FFCB. In addition, the OM will consider the
following aspects:
2.    Instruments. The OM will describe the characteristics and conditions of the
different instruments that the FFCB can utilize to capitalize the banks. These instruments
are:
a)    subscription of shares;
b)    purchase of obligations convertible into shares; and
c)    subordinated loans.
3.    Amount of the capitalization operations. The OM will define the maximum
amount of the funds that the FFCB can provide in each of the operations in which it
participates, according to the type of operation (exclusion of assets and liabilities,
regularization plan, merger of banks, absorption of one bank by another).
4.    To establish the amount of each operation, consideration will be taken of, at least,
the following parameters: i) relationship between the contribution of the shareholders and
the FFCB; and ii) relationship between the contribution of the FFCB and the capital
requirement of the bank. In no case, the operation will result in the FFCB controlling the
equity of the bank.
5.    Stages of the capitalization process. This section of the OM will develop, as a
minimum, the following points:
a) Presentation of the request for assistance by the banks. The OM will define the
characteristics and requirements to be met by the entities that request FFCB
assistance. This section will define the documentation that the banks will present
together with their request, according to the type of operation contemplated. In
all cases, as a minimum, the documentation will include reports of the capital
situation of the entity, business plan, policy of honoraries and other retributions of
directors and managers, situation of related enterprises, plan of action of the
entity, commitment of shareholders' contributions. The information provided
should be on a consolidated basis of all the enterprises that participate in the
group and based on SB evaluation criteria.
b) Evaluation of the requests. The OM will define the evaluation processes and the
general evaluation criteria.
6.    Response of the FFCB to the assistance requests. The OM will establish the
procedures and time frame for the response of the FFCB to the assistance requests. It
will also establish the basic elements that will be taken into account for the evaluation of
Annex 2 Page 5 of 8



the requests. These will include, among others, capitalization, structure of assets, quality
of management, profits, and liquidity.
7.    Disbursement of the approved capitalization operations. The OM will define
the procedures and time frame for the disbursement of the approved operations.
8.    Conditionality. The OM will describe the conditionality that the FFCB may
require from the assisted banks. According to the type of operation, the OM will
contemplate, among others, the following conditionality: restrictions to, distribution of
profits, limits to honoraries and retributions for the top management, prohibition to carry
out specific activities, etc.
9.    Criteria for the management of FFCB's assets. The OM will establish the
guidelines and policies for the management of FFCB's assets. It will specify the policy
to sell the assets that it generates through its operations.
10. ' Other normative aspects. The OM will consider aspects such as the procedures
for its modification.
Annex 2 Page 6 of 8



FFCB
Regulation on Eligibility Conditions for Participating Banks
1.    This regulation will establish the eligibility conditions of the banks that will be
able to receive assistance from the FFCB.
2.    The eligible banks are of two types:
d)    Banks with insufficient capital, but with a positive net equity position,
which are economically viable and have adequate management and
controls;
e)    Banks that have enough capital, but want to participate in a process of
purchase of excluded assets and liabilities or in an absorption process.
These entities need also to have received a good qualification from the
SB.
3.    Non eligible for FFCB support will be banks with the following characteristics:
a)     negative net equity;
b)     with doubtful financial information;
c)    that do not have a viable business;
d)     with unresolved matters with the SB;
e)     with doubtful information about the financial group to which they belong;
and
f)     public banks.
4.    Evaluation of the eligibility of the banks will be done based on criteria defined by
the SB norms, applied on a consolidated basis to the economic group to which they
belong.
5.    The FFCB will request from BANGUAT and SB all the reports and dispositions
issued that it considers necessary to carry out its operations. Under no circumstance the
FFCB will carry out by itself the inspection or verification of the participating banks.
However, it will be able to contract external audits that it considers necessary. It is
important to prevent the FFCB form becoming a supervisory authority parallel to the SB
or to generate an expensive operating structure.
Annex 2 Page 7 of 8



FFCB Legal Structure and Participants
1.    This regulation will establish the legal structure and the participants in the FFCB.
2.    The FFCB will act as a private institutional investor, according to the guidelines
of the OM. For this, the FFCB will have an autonomous structure, management and
organizational capabilities under the principles of healthy and prudential management.
3.    Participants in the FFCB.
a)    Trustor:                (Fideicomitente) State of Guatemala
through the Ministry of Finance
b)    Trustee:                 (Fiduciario) BANGUAT
c)    Executive Committee      One representative of the Minister of
Finance;
One representative of the President of
BANGUAT;
One representative of the Superintendent of
Banks.
d)    Trust Beneficiary:       (Fideicomisario) State of Guatemala
through the Ministry of Finance or whoever
the legal bodies of the BANGUAT and the
SB propose.
4.    Functions and Responsibilities of the Participants.
a)    Of the Fiduciary. The fiduciary will be responsible for the registration of
the operations carried out by the FFCB and other formal acts required by
the law, according to the instructions receive from the Executive
Committee.
b)    Of the Executive Committee. The Committee will manage the FFCB and
be responsible for the compliance of the FFCB with: (i) its mission in
accordance with the OM; and (ii) the application of the regulations on
eligibility conditions of the banks
5.    External audits. The FFCB will be subject to external audits by internationally
recognized auditing firms. The external auditor will audit the books and financial
statements of the FFCB and its compliance with the commitments under the
capitalization operations.
6.    Operating costs. The BANGUAT will be able to charge honoraries and other
operating costs to the FFCB to cover the costs incurred in its operation.
Annex 2 Page 8 of 8



ANNEX III
BENCHMARKS FOR THE APPLICATION OF
THE BANKING AND FINANCIAL GROUPS ACT AND THE FINANCIAL
SUPERVISION ACT'
At the recommendation of the Superintendency of Banks, the Monetary Board has
approved three action plans that will guide the SB in the application of the new legal
framework. The action plans are in the following areas:
1.    Transitioning to the new system of risk management
2.    Transitioning to the new system of consolidated supervision
3.    Establishing the new accounting and auditing norms
The action plans contain a number of benchmarks that will be used to monitor the
progress in the execution of the action plans. Additionally, the achievement of these
benchmarks is a condition for the disbursement of the second tranche of the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan.
OVERALL BENCHMARK
The Government will provide evidence that the implementing regulations to the Bank and
Financial Groups Act and the Financial Supervision Act have been issued and are in use,
in accordance with the technical criteria agreed with the Bank.
I RISK MANAGEMENT BENCHMARKS
1. All of the banks of the system have formed risk management committees.
2. All of the banks of the system have risk management manuals and these have been
verified by the SB.
3. The banks of the system are complying with the norms for risk-based capital. (In the
case of the banks that are not complying with the capital norms, the SB will provide
evidence showing that they have entered into a restructuring program or that their
activities have been suspended.)
4. All of the banks of the system have been inspected in accordance with the new legal
framework and regulations and sanctions are being applied to institutions that are
not complying with the new legal framework and regulations. (The SB will provide
a statement affirming compliance with this point).
These actions plans and benchmarks have been agreed by the IADB and the Guatemalan authorities in the
context of the preparation of IADB's Financial Sector Loan. The proposed Bank adjustment operation will
incorporate the same benchmarks in its conditionality, to maintain consistency in the approach of both
institutions with respect to the implementation of the reforms.
Annex 3 Page 1 of 2



II. CONSOLEI)ATED SUPERVISION BENCHMARKS
1. At least 7 financial groups have been qualified by the SB and have had at least one
complete inspection applying the principles of consolidated supervision.
2. At least 7 off-shore banks have been qualified by the SB or have stopped operating in
Guatemala or have been cited for operating illegally.
III. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING BENCHMARKS
1. The accounting manual for bank operations adopting the International Accounting
Standards has been drafted and approved by the MB.
2. All of the banks and finance companies in the system have adopted and are utilizing
the new accounting norms. (The SB will provide a statement affirming compliance
with this point).
3. Register for external auditors functioning in the SB.
Annex 3 Page 2 of 2



ANNEX IV
Superintendency of Banks
Program of In Situ Supervision of National Banks
The Program of in situ supervision of national banks of the Superintenidency of
Banks covers the period from March to November 2002.
The scope of the audits involves at least the following:
a) Audit, valuation of risks and evaluation of internal controls of the investments
in securities of the entities (20 percent of total assets);
b) Audit, valuation of risks and evaluation of internal controls of the credit
portfolio and other credits of the entities (50 percent of assets). This type of
audit will be done taking into account the largest debtors, of a sample of
between 40 and 60 percent of the portfolio, according to the situation of the
entity;
c) Requirement of valuation reserves
These audits are independent from the desk work carried out by the Analysis
Department, where daily, weekly and monthly follow up is given to the liquidity
and treasury of the entities, as well as the analysis and investigation of the main
variations of their accounts. There is a coordination between the desk analysis
and the in situ inspection.
Program of in situ Inspections During 2002
From March to July 2002:
Banco Industrial, S.A.
Financiera Industrial, S.A.
Banco de Occidente, S.A.
Financiera de Occidente, S.A.
Banco G&T Continental, S.A.
Financiera Industrial y Agropecuaria, S.A.
Banco Agromercantil de Guatemala, S.A.
Financiera Agromercantil, S.A.
Banco Reformador, S.A.
Financiera Reforma, S.A.
Banco de Exportaci6n, S.A.
Financiera Guatemalteca, S.A.
Banco Internacional, S.A.
Annex 4 Page I of 2



From August to November 2002:
Banco de Desarrollo Rural, S.A.
Banco Uno, S.A.
Financiera Uno, S.A.
Banco de la Republics, S.A.
Banco Americano, S.A.
Financiera de Inversi6n, S.A.
Banco Privado para el Desarrollo, S.A.
Banco de Antigua, S.A.
Banco de Am6rica Central, S.A.
Banco Cuscatlan de Guatemala, S.A.
Lloyds TSB Bank Pic, Sucursal Guatemala
Citibank N.A. Sucursal Guatemala
Annex 4 Page 2 of 2






ANNEX v
Letter of Sectorml Development Policy
MNISTERIO DE FINANZAS                     BANCO DE GUATEMALA
PUBLICAS
Guatemala, May 20,2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D. C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This Letter of Development Policy describes the objectives of the Govenmment of
Guatemala's financial sector reforn program, including the objectives, policies and
actions of such program designed to: improve competition in the banking sector,
strengthen banking regulation and supervision, improve the transparency of financial
inforrnation, and modemize the financial sector legal framework. In order to implement
these reforms, we are requesting financial assistance from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). Bank assistance is particularly needed at
this juncture, when successive financial crisis have impacted negatively the public
finances of the countries in Latin America. We would like to take this opportunity to also
describe the macroeconomic framework which serves as the basis of the reform program,
and the Government of Guatemala's major advances in structural reforms.
1. Main Objectives of Economic Policy
2.    The Government of Guatemala is strongly committed to speed up the
implementation of the 1996 Peace Accords, and to strengthen macroeconomic
performance by substantially improving the fiscal position and addressing the weaknesses
of the financial system, while defending public sector expenditure in the social areas.



-2-
3.    The Government is of the view that the envisaged progress in str hening fiscal
policy has to be accompanied by a sustained improvement in social conditions. Over the
long run, the gradual integration of the large mral indigenous population into the mawket
economy, together with the strengthening of human capital through poverty reduction and
access to basic education and health, should raise the productivity of labor and expand
the domestic economy. To this effect, the Government intends to maintain social
expenditure at over 5 percent of GDP and improve the efficiency of social expenditure by
coordinating purchases of different social funds. Furthermore, while under the present
circumstances it would not be possible to meet the tax ratio of 12 percent of GDP in 2002
as previously scheduled, the Govermnent is fully committed to achieve this fiscal target
by 2004 as recently discussed with the Peace Commission. To guide its policies in this
respect, the Government has prepared a poverty reduction strategy paper that wiU
complement its economic program.
11.   The Macroeconomic Program
4.    In April 1, 2002 the International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved a one-year
stand-by credit for Guatemala for SDR 84 million (about US$105 million) to support the
Govemrnment's economic program for 2002. The main aspects of the economic program
for 2002 agreed with the IMF are described below.
5.    Reflecting the weak extemat demand and the effects of the September It, 2001
events, the economic program forecasts a real GDP growth of 21/3 percent in 2002
(slightly higher than 2001, but still below population growth). The economic program
targets a reduction in inflation to a 4-6 percent range in 2002, and a fiurther narrowing of
the extemal current account. Net international reserves are expected to fall slightly to
US$2.1 billion (115 percent of base money at end-2002), providing adequate cover for
imports and short-tern debt.
6.    Fiscal policy will aim at reducing the combined public sector deficit to I 'A percent
of GDP and the central Govemment deficit to 1'f percent of GDP in 2002, through
revenue-raising measures and improved expenditure controls. This will be achieved
while protecting expenditure in the social areas and covering the cost of restructuring the
banking system. Tax revenue is projected to increase by I percentage point of GDP to
103 percent of GDP in 2002, reflecting the MI-year effect of the tax packages approved
in 2001 and measures introduced in 2002 (including the increase in VAT rate), and
improved tax administration and enforcement



-3-
7.    An important element of the fiscal program for 2002 is to hold total expenditure
of the central government about constant following a 22 percent increase in 2001, which
would imply a decrease in terms of GDP by 1 percentage point to 12' percent in 2002.
The tightening of expenditure reflects the plan adopted by the President of the Republic
to ensure an increase in national savings despite the decline in world coffee prices and a
negative extemal enviromnent. Consistent with this plan, the government issued a decree
(acuerdo gubernativo) in February 2002 introducing expenditure actions. These actions
are linked to those aimed at strengthening budget control and management with early
warning indicators under the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS). To
mitigate the 'impact of austerity on the Govemment's Poverty Reduction Strategy the
authorities will put in place the infrastructure needed to protect social expenditure, and
avoid waste and duplication in social funds.
8.    In general, the central bank will continue to maintain a tight stance of monetary
policy until after the fiscal position and the banking system are strengthened. Monetary
policy aims at reducing inflation and maintaining an adequate level of intemational
reserves. Broad money is projected to increase by above 8 percent in 2002 allowing for
an increase in bank credit to the private sector of 9 percent (slightly faster than nominal
GDP). The monetary program assumes net domestic assets of the central bank as the
intermediate target, which are projected to increase by 15 percent, providing room for the
projected private sector credit growth, while achieving the targeted net international
reserves. The authorities will continue to implement a flexible exchange rate policy,
which allows the exchange rate to reflect market conditions
III.  Structural Reforms
9.    Guatemala has made substantial advances in the area of privatization as it has
divested almost all of its participation in the largest enterprises. During 2002, the
Government is planning to sell its remaining shares in the power company, energy
distribution companies, and the national airline. The Government also will improve the
targeting of the subsidy on electricity services.
10.   The Govenmment has been providing nonrecurring assistance to coffee producers
suffering from the effect of low world prices, to help them restructure their debts with the
banking system and to diversify into other products and sectors. The Government is also
beginning to take actions to foster the restructuring of the agricultural sector (with
assistance from the Bank and IDB), through improvements in rural infrastructure and
technical assistance to diversify into nontraditional agricultural exports and tourism.



-4-
11. 'Improving transparency and reducing corruption are important elements of the
Government's overall strategy. For this purpose, the Govenmment has requested Bank
assistance in developing more fully the National Anti-Corruption Plan announced by
President Portillo on February 8, 2002. A crucial element of this strategy is strengthening
and extending the IFMS to other public agencies outside of the central government. With
technical assistance from the Bank and other donors, the Govenmment has prepared draft
legislation, currently under consideration by Congress, to strengthen the laws on probity
and the office of the comptroller general. The Government has negotiated with the IDB a
loan to improve public sector procurement and purchases. As a first step, this loan
helped the authorities draft a new-procurement law, which was sent to congress on April
2002. Also, the Government, with technical assistance from US AID, is preparing a draft
law, which will require the Govemment to present, together with the annual budget, an
estimate of the revenue foregone from tax privileges, exemptions, and exonerations.
Moreover, the Government requested technical assistance from the IMF to prepare the
basic questionnaire to adopt the Fund's code on fiscal transparency.
12.   In addition, the Government plans to initiate a comprehensive review of the social
security system with the aim of protecting the sustainability of the fiscal accounts and
increasing national savings. The Government, with assistance from the Bank, will update
actuarial studies to evaluate the costs and benefits of different options to reform the
system.
IV.   Financial Sector Reform Program
13.   To address the weakness of the financial sector, the monetary authority initiated a
thorough assessment of the banking system with help from the FSAP mission. As a
result, in October 2001 the Monetary Board (MB) requested that the courts liquidate three
banks and two finance companies that were intervened early in the year. Shareholders of
another weak bank, the Banco del Ej6rcito, increased its capital in December 2001, and a
draft law permitting its sale was approved by congress in January 2002; the due diligence
for the sale of this bank will be initiated before June30, 2002.
14.   In October 2001, Congress. approved an Anti-Money Laundering Law which
classifies money-laundering activities as a criminal offense, expands the banking secrecy
rules to deal with suspicious financial transactions, and permits the Guatemalan
authorities to share information with other countries. In addition, the law creates an
autonomous authority to investigate suspicious transactions. The Government is of the
view that this law strengthens money-laundering controls sufficiently to take Guatemala
off the list of "non-cooperative" countries as elaborated by the OECD-backed Financial
Action Task Force (FATF).



-5-
15.   In order to improve the efficiency and soundness of the financial sector, Congress
approved at the end of April, 2002 a package of financial sector laws including: a new
Central Bank Law, a new Monetary Law, a new Banding Supervision Law and a new
Banking and Financial Groups Law. These laws have been prepared with help from the
Fund, Bank, and IDB.
16.   The new Central Bank Law defines clearly that the objective or the central bank is
to preserve price stability. It reinforces its financial autonomy, mandating the state to
guarantee the maintenance over time of the central bank's capital. It also establishes
limits to central bank activities as lender of last resort to cover only banks' temporary
liquidity deficiencies. The new Banking Supervision Law aims at reinforcing the
functional autonomy of supervisors through adequate sanctioning and information
gathering powers, and legal protection. The new Monetary Law provides an improved
legal framework to facilitate exchange convertibility, free capital mobility, domestic
contracts in foreign currency, and domestic financial intermediation in foreign currency
(including the constitution of foreign currency deposits). The new Banking and Financial
Groups Law introduces consolidated supervision and capital adequacy requirements,
including offshore operations, and allows for the reform of the regime for bank resolution
and exit procedures, while making operative an explicit, but limited, deposit guarantee.
17.   The Government worked with Congress to secure the two-thirds majority needed
for the passage of these laws. Before their passage, the Government used its statutory
powers to protect the independence of the central bank. Accordingly, in February 2001,
the monetary board issued a regulation limiting its lender-of-last resort facilities to
collaterized short-term liquidity assistance at punitive interest rates.
18.   An important step in improving the health of the banking system is to resolve the
situation of the undercapitalized banks. The new Banking and Financial Groups Law
establishes an efficient mechanism for bank consolidation and regularization, including
market exit of insolvent institutions. Under this mechanism, performing assets of an
insolvent bank would be transferred to a solvent bank, and judicial participation will be
limited to liquidating non-performing assets (instead of all assets). The implementation
of this mechanism will be financed through a trust fund (Fiduciary Fund for Bank
Capitalization--FFCB) outside the balance sheet of the central bank, funded by the
Ministry of Public Finance from external loans and budgetary or other resources.
19.   The monetary authority has decided to undertake a comprehensive examination of
the banks in the system to assess the need for additional actions to strengthen their
balance sheets, and the possible consolidation of financial institutions through mergers
and acquisitions. To this effect, the Superintendency of Banks has initiated a program of
comprehensive on-site inspections of all banks.  Based on these inspections, the
government will identify banks in need of increasing their capital base and will agree
with their shareholders on plans to capitalize such banks without delay. The program
a,Q 'k



-6-
considers as structural benchmarks the initiation of the capitalization program before
August 15, 2002 of banks identified as undercapitalized in the inspections to be
concluded before April 30, 2002. The monetary authorities intend to expand, as soon as
possible, the examination of the banks on a consolidated basis, including off-shore
entities.
20.   In order to fully implement the approved financial laws, the Govenment is
committed to work expeditiously to achieve the following:
(i)   enact the regulations of the approved laws maintaining the technical principles
agreed with the Bank;
(ii)  complete the capitalization of the central bank through the issuing of bonds to
settle past fiscal losses (about Q15 billion), and the transfer of the central bank's
annual deficits and surpluses to the national budget;
(iii)  enact new regulations to strengthen the payments system, including: a clear
definition of the responsibilities of the central bank, risk management rules, and
enhanced efficiency;
(iv)  meet the benchmarks of the plan of action of the Superintendency of Banks for
the application of the new financial legal framework;
(v)   apply the supervision procedures and tools needed to implement the Money
Laundering Law;
(vi)  implement the program  of in situ supervision of national banks of the
Superintendency of Banks and carry out a comprehensive examination of the
banking sector on a consolidated basis, including off-shore entities;
(vii) take irrevocable actions to initiate either merger, full capitalization or liquidation
of banks identified as undercapitalized in the inspections to be concluded before
August 31, 2002;
(viii) make FOPA (Fund for the Protection of Savings) fully operational and ensure that
it is adequately funded to reimburse depositors of banks under liquidation;
(ix)  make the new Credit Information System within the Superintendency of Banks
fully operational, and put in place the statutory rules governing its operations;
(x)   legally create the FFCB, make it fully operational under the Operating Principles
and Procedures agreed with the Bank, establish a Coordination Unit for its
operation, and have this fund audited on a yearly basis; and
(xi)  take measures to contribute additional funds to the FFCB to cover eventual
shortfall in funds to carry out bank resolution transactions.
21.   In addition, the monetary authorities intend to deepen the legal reform of the
financial sector by submitting for congressional approval three additional financial laws:
on insurance, secured transactions, and non-bank financial intermediaries. This new
legislation would contribute to expand financial services to sectors that are currently
underserved.



-7-
V.    World Bank Support
22.   The above description demonstrates the depth of the Govemment's overall reform
program. The Government believes that financial assistance from the Bank is important
to strengthen the financial sector reform program in order to create an enviromment
conducive to a better functioning financial sector, able to withstand external shocks, and
with greater participation in the domestic credit market.
Sincerely yours,
Eduardo Hurbtes                            LizardArturo Sosa  pez
Minister of F anc                          President of the Bank of Guatemala



ANNEX VI
Guatemala - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate        Projected
Indicator                     1997    199S    1999    2000    2001    2002     2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'                      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                 23.7    23.4    23.0     22.8    22 6    22 4    22.2    22.0
Industry                                    20.0    20 0    20.2     19.8    19.7    19.6    19 5     19 4
Services                                    56.3    56.6    56.8     57.4    57.7    58.0    58.3    58.6
Total Consumption                             92.0    90.7    91.1    89.7    93.0    92.6     91.9    91.1
Gross domestic investment                     13.7    17.4    17.4    18.1    16.2     16.2    16.6    17.1
Government investment                        3.1     4.3     5.5      4.2     4.2     4.0     4.5     4.2
Private investment                          10.6    13.1     11.9    13.9    12.0    12.2    12.1    12 9
Exports (GNFS)P                               17.8    17.8    18.8    19.9    18.4     17.9    17.8    17.8
Imports (GNFS)                                23 5    25 9    27.2    27.8    27 7    26 7     26.3    26.0
Gross domesticsavings                          8.0     9.3     8.9    10.3     7.0      7.4     8.1     89
Grossnationalsavings'                          9.8    12.1    11.8    13.6    10.9     11.3    11.8    12.7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product (US$ million)       17,768  19,306   18,225  19,070  20,573  21,751  23,294  24,928
GDPpercapita(US$)                           1,689   1,788    1,644   1,675   1,760   1,811   1,889    1,967
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1958 prices)
Gross Domestic Product                       4.4     5.0      3.8     3 6     2.1     2.3     3.3      4.0
Gross DomesticIncame                         4.8     6.4      3.3     4.4     2.0     2.3     3.1      3.8
Real annual per capita growth rates (0/o, calculated from 1958 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices      1.7     2.3      1.2     0.9    -0.6    -0.4     0.6      1.3
Total consumption                             1.8    2.2      1.1     1.4     1.6    -0.8    -0 2      0 4
Private consumption                          1.1     2.1      1.5     0.2     0 9     0.0    -1.0      1.6
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS) b                           3,175   3,456   3,435    3,893   3,791   3,900   4,148   4,426
Merchandise FOB                          2,598   2,847   2,781    3,082   2,980   3,053   3,233   3,438
Imports (GNFS) b                           4,188'  5,028   4,984    5,585   5,698   5,812   6,120   6,474
Merchandise FOB                          3,519   4,249   4,181    4,794   5,272   5,383   5,677   6,016
Resource balance                          -1,013   -1,572  -1,549  -1,692  -1,907  -1,911   -1,972  -2,049
Netincomcandcurrcnttransfcrs                 327     536     534     643     815      840     867     946
Current account balance                      -686   -1,036  -1,015  -1,049  -1,093  -1,072   -1I105  -1;103
Foreign direct investmentd                    85     673     357     230     470      150     180     200
Long-term loans (net)                        222     234     294     116      191     268     366     264
Othercapital(net,micL.rwors&ommissims)       612     372     238    1,438    874      446     591     750
Change in reserves                          -232    -243     126    -735    -442      208     -31    -111
Memorandum items
Current Account balance (% of GDP)            -3 9    -5.4    -5.6    -5.5     -5.3    -4.9    -4 7     -4.4
(Continued)
Annex 6 Page I of 4



Guatemala - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate        Projected
Indicator                     1997     1998    1999    2000    2001    2002     2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)
Total revenues                               9 4      9.7    10.5    10.5     11.0    11.5    12.0    12.3
Taxrevenue                                 8.8      8.7     9.3     9.5     9.7     10.6    11 0     11.3
Nontax revenue and transfers               0.5      0.9     1.1     0.9      1.3     0.9     1.0     1.0
Total expenditures                           10.1    11.9    13.3    12.4     13.8    13.0    14.0     13.8
Current expenditure                         6.2     7.3      8 1     8.6     9.6     9.0      9.8     9 4
Capital expenditure and net lending         3.9     4 6      5.2     3.7     4.2     4.0      4.2     4.4
Deficit (-) Surplus (+)                        -0.4    -2.2    -3.3    -2.2     -2 8    -1.5    -2.0     -1.5
Net Foreign financing                        2.0      1.5     2.4     0.9      0.9     1.0     1.2     0.7
Net Domestic financing                       -1 6     07      0.9     1.3      1.8     0.5     0.7     0.8
of which, privatization proceeds           0.0      3.1     06      0.7      1.8     0.3     0.0     0.0
Monetary indicators
M2 / GDP (%)                                 27.2     26.8    27.0    30.4     31.3    31.8    31.8    31.8
Growth of M2 (%)                              15.5    13.4     9.8    23.3     12.5    10.9    10.8     10.8
Privatesectorcreditgrowth(%)                  19.9    27.5    14.4    10.0     34.7    17.8    12.2     10.7
Price indices( YR58 =100)
Exports of GNFS price index                2362     2647    2906    3253     3380    3309    3497     3843
ImportsofGNFS price index                  3831     3896    4429    4661     4989    5141    5320     5507
Terns of trade index                          61.6    67.9     65.6    69.8    67.8.    64.4    65 7    69.8
Annual average exchange rate (Qz / US$)      6.07     6.42    7.42    7.77     7.88    8.12    8.40     8.70
Realexchangsrateindex (USS/Qz)r              153.6   157.3   143.2   145.5    153.4   155.1   157.2    158.1
Consumer price index (% change, ave.)         9.2      6.6     5.2     6.0      73      6.5     7.3      6.6
GDP deflator (% change)                        8.3     9.5     5.0     5.7      7.2     6.5     7.3      6.5
a GDP at current narket prices.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Gross Domestic Savings plus net current transfers and net factor incone.
d. Includes privatization proceeds, if any.
e. Includes only Central govemment operations.
f. An increase in the index denotts appreciation.
Annex 6 Page 2 of 4



Guatemala at a glance                                                              5/24/02
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America    middle.
Guatemala   & Carib.   Income     Development doamond'
2001
Popuiation, mid-year (mflWons)                      11.7       516     2,046               L1* expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas method, USS)                  1.700     3.680     1,140
GNI (Adas method, USS bilihons)                     19.9     1,895     2,327
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                       2 6       1.6       1.0     GNI                            Gross
Labor force(9)                                       3.4       2 3       13 3                                   Gross
per                            rml
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                            capita                     enrolmt
Poverty (6 ofpopulathn below nabonel poverty line)    56
Urban popuation ( of to  populaton)                   40        75       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      65        70       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIe births)               40        30       32
Child malnutrition (X of childen under 5)             24         9       11           Access to lmproved water source
Access to an Improved water soue (a6 ofpopulabon)     92        85       80
lllteracy(36ofpopulatlonage15+)                       31        12       15
Gross ptimary enmilment (6of school-ag populabon)     88       113      114           Guatarala
Male                                                93                116             Lower-midd'e4ncome group
Female                                              83                114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000     2001
Economide.tioa'
GDP (USS bIllions)                          8 6      9.4      191       20 6
Gross domestic investmentlGDP              17.0     14.3      18.1      16 2                    Trad
Exports of goods and smevices/GDP          171      18.0      19.9      18.4                       e
Gross domestic savingsGDP                  10.5     10.7      10.3       7.0
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                   106      11.9      13.6      10.9
Current account balancelGDP                 -07      -2.7      -     5       3   Domestic                   Ivte
Interest paymenWGDP                         0.7      1.2       0 8       0 9     savingsInvesment
Total debttGDP                             14.9     32.9      17.2      16.9        n              /
Totaldebtservlce/exports                     87     153       170       18.2
Present value of deWbGDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141     2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1 4     41       3.6       21        3 4        -Gua      temala
GDP per capita                     -11      1.3      0.9      -0.6       0.7              Lower-nrddleincome grup
Exports of goods and setvioes      0.1      6.2      3.9      -2.6       5.9
STRUCTURE of tie ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growtih of Investment end GDP (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                      Io
Agricuiture                                25 0     25.7      22.8      22.6       . .
Industry                                   217      196       198       19.7     40 
Manufacturing                             160      14.9      132       131     20 
Services                                   53.3     54.7      57 4      57 7      0
Private consumption                        81.6     83 9      83.4      87.8    20
General govemment consumption               7 9      5 4       6 3       5.2                    GDI    -    -GDP
Imports of goods and services              23.6     21.6      27.8      27 7
1981-91  199141       2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annuat growth)                                                         3
Agricuture                                   1.7     2 7        2 6      11 
Industry                                    0.7      4.1       1.5       1 6    20 +
Manufacuring                               0.7      2.7       1.9       1 6    10
Services                                    1.6      46        46        27 
Prtvate consumption                         1 7      41        2 9       3.6     0
Generel govemment consumption               2.6      5.5      14.5      10 2    -10
Gross domestic Investment                   0 1      4.9       4.2      4 3             -     Exports  -   Imports
Imports of goods and servicos               0 8      8.5       6.1       2 0
Note. 2001 data are prelkrinary estimates
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-gmoup average. if data are missing, the diamond vwill
be Incomplete.
Annex 6 Page 3 of 4



Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domnte prices
(% change)                                                                     12
Consumer prices                            11 4    33 1       6.0      7.3    10
Implcit GDP deflator                        8 5    33 0       5.7      7 2     a
4
Central Government finance                                                     2
(% of GDP, lndudes cumrnt grants)
Current revenue                                     9.0      10.S     11.0            96   97   9B     99    00 0o
Current budget balance                              1 5       1 8      1 4            -    GDP deflator  O  iCPI
Overall surplusldeflct.                            -0 5      -2.2     -2.8
TRADE
1981    1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mIll.)
(US$ mllllonsJ
Total exports (fob)                          ..   1,298     3,082    2,980    s,000
Coffee                                      .     281       569      335     s,oo
Sugar                                      ..     141       180      212     4000
Manufactures                                .     692      1.907    1,805     .    
Total Imports (ci)                            .   1,851     5,171    5.272        .
Food                                        .     264      1,085    1,182    o
Fuel and energy                            ..     311       540      581     1,00
Capital goods                               ,     430      1,417    1,404      o
9#  99   97   9ii  99   00  01
Exportpricelndex(1995=100)                  11       71       139      144
Import price Index (1995=100)               13       76       128      137                 mExports     *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   8S       93       108      105
BALANCE o1 PAYMENTS
1981     1991     2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mllllons)
Exports of goods and services             1,446   1,727     3,693    3,791     o-
Imports of goods and services             2,024   2,030     5,585    5,698      -
Resource balance                           -578    -302    -1,692    -1,907    -   *                            I
Net Income                                  -86    -174      -225     -166
Net current transfers                       90      220       868      981     4            *    *3  
Current account balance                    -574    -256    -1,049    -1,093    4*
Financing Items (net)                      273      812     1.784    1,535     s*
Changes In net reserves                    301     -556      -735     *442     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS nDIons)       172      419     1,818    2,260
Conversion rate (DEC, localbVSS)            1.0     5.0       78       7.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS mfillIons)                                                                Compositdon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,278   3,092     3,285    3,476
IBRD                                     171      279       296      330
IDA                                        0        0         0        0               G 471      k .330
Total debt service                         136      290       786      8SS
IBRD                                      16       31        34       34                                -
IDA                                        0        0         0        0               -
ComposktIon ot nt resource flows                                                  F 719  .
Ofllcial grants                            12      72        87       88
Official credItors                       169       46        94       84                                  D 1,342
Prdvate credRors                         110       -7        33      106
Foreign direct Investment                127       91       230      470
Portfolioequtty                            0        0         0        0              E e14
World Bank program
Signed CommItments                         0        0        54       46     A - IsRD                  E- IOaNer
Dlsbursements                             35        4        51       46     B - IDA  D - Other mullateraI  F - Private
Pritndpal repayments                       7       21        13       12     C-IMF                     G- Short-term
Net lIows                                 28      -17        38       35
Interest payments                          9        9        21       22
Net transfers                             18      -28        17       12
Development Economics                                                                                          5/24102
Annex 6 Page 4 of 4



ANNEX VII
Guatemala- Status of Bank Group Operations
Operations Portfolio as of March 31, 2002
Closed projeacts 23                                                                             Difference iBetween
Board                                         Last PSBR                                            Expected and Actual
Data                                      Supervision Ratng b/       Orioinal Amount In USS Millions  Dlsbursmentsi
yFsl            Acve ProJectsSl                    Imoleaion          IBRD   Cancelled  Undsbursed   Original  Revised
1997  P07223   Basic Ed Reform            S            S              33 0        0 0         4 8      -0 4
1997  P48756   Priv Prtcptn. Infr TA      S            U              130         00          68       68
1998  P35737   Rural & Main Roads         S             S             66 7        0.0        28.8      7 7
1998  P48654   TaxAdministralon           S             S             282         00         186       185
1998  P48657   Integrated Fin MgmLtl      S             S             157         00          09       0.4
1999  P40198   FIS II                     S             S             50 0        0 0         0 9     -12.1
1999  P47039   Judial Reform              S             S             33 0        0 0        24 6      8 6
1999  P49386   Recostr &LocalDev          S             S             300         00         226      156
1999  P49616   Land Administaton          S             S             310         00         227       148
1999  P54462   LandFund                   S            S              230         00         180       79
2001   P48652   Univ of Basic EducaIon    S             S             62.2        0 0        62.2       7 3
2001  P55084   Competitveness Enha        S             S             20 3        0.0        20.3      0 0
2002   P66175   IntegratedFln Mgmt III                                 298        0.0        298        00
435 9        0 0       258 7     75 1
AJl Projects
IBRD          IDA            Total
Principal Disbursed  758 4         0.0           758 4
of which has been repaid  416 3        0 0            418 3
Total now held by IBRD and IDA"  332.0        0 0            332 0
a Intended disbursements to date m Inus actual disbursements to date as prolected at appraisal
b Including valuation adjustments for -$10 1 million.
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 1/31/2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                      Disbursed
FY Approval   Company    Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic Loan    Equity Quasi Partic
1993     Vigua          2.1     0.0    00     0.0   2 1     0.0    0.0    00
1994     Fabrigas       1.5     0 0    1.0    0.0    1 5    0 0    1.0    0 0
1996     Pantaleon      8 8     0.0    0,0    0.0   8.8     0 0    0.0    0.0
1998     LaFragua      190      0.0    0.0    0.0   190     0.0    0.0    0.0
2000      Frutera       7.0     0.0    00     0.0    7 0     0 0    0 0   0 0
2000      Orzunil      12.2     1.2    0.0   13 1   12 2     1.2   0.0   13 1
Total Portfolio       50.5     1.2    1.0   13 1   50.5     1.2    1 0  13.1
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
Annex 7 Page I of 1












- - 
IMAGING
Report No.: P        7544   GU
Type:      PR



