Report No. PID10779
Project name                     Guatemala-Financial Sector Adjustment Loan ...
(FSAL)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Finance
Loan ID number                   GTPE74530
Borrower                         Government of Guatemala
Implementing Agencies            Central Bank of Guatemala (BANGUAT) and
Superintendency of Banks (SB)
Lic. Jose Alfredo Blanco Valdes
Subgerente Area Econ6mica BANGUAT
7 a Avenida 22-01, Zona 1
Ciudad de Guatemala, Guatemala
Telephone: (502) 238-1546
Fax: (502) 238-8509
Date this PID Prepared           November 8, 2001
Project appraisal date           November 23, 2001
Project Board Date               April 2,  2002
Country Sector and background
An important area of vulnerability for the Guatemalan economy, which could
undermine the success of the Government's social reform program, is the
fragility of the financial sector. This fragility is the result, inter alia,
of an oversized banking system that includes a large unregulated off-shore
component, weak monetary and financial legal and regulatory framework, and
poor banking supervision. In recent years, this situation has been aggravated
by large swings in macroeconomic policies and significant capital flows.
For the past 18 months, however, the Guatemalan Government has been preparing
a reform program designed to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework
for the financial sector and take action towards the regularization/resolution
of weak and insolvent banks. In early 2001, the Monetary Board intervened
three banks and is pursuing legal authorization for their closure. They are
also studying the timetable to resolve the situation of other weak banks.
Congress is currently discussing a package of financial laws to improve
regulation, supervision and foreclosure procedures in the financial sector.
The reform process has received analytical support from the World Bank, the
IMF, and the IADB. This proposed loan would support these reforms, together
with a proposed parallel loan from the IADB. A small technical assistance
loan would also support the implementation of these reforms.
Loan Objectives and Description
The broader policy objective of this proposed loan is to assist the
Guatemalan Government to implement its financial sector reform program,
aimed at bringing about a better functioning banking sector, able to
withstand external shocks and to expand prudent lending to the private sector,
opening access to groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank
financing (micro, rural and small and medium enterprises). The financial



sector reform program to be supported by this operation includes actions in
the following key areas:
reform of the monetary policy legal framework for the conduct of monetary
andfinancial policy, including the capitalization of the Central Bank;
reform of the financial sector legal framework aimed at: strengthening
the regulation of financial groups and create an orderly market exit
mechanism, enhance credit risk management, and increase access to
financing;
reform of bank supervision legal framework aimed at strengthening the
autonomy of the Superintendency of Banks and its legal and institutional
capacity to supervise financial groups, and rise banking sector regulation
towards international standards;
enactment of legislation to prevent money laundering to reduce illegal
activities and comply with international norms; and
consolidation of the banking system through the restructuring or
closure of insolvent banks, and through mergers and acquisitions.
Loan financing
The proposed loan will be for US$150 million, to be disbursed in three
tranches.
Project Implementation
The implementing agencies will be the Central Bank of Guatemala and the
Superintendency of Banks.
Program sustainability
The Government has demonstrated its commitment to a program of financial
sector reforms with the intervention in early 2001 of three insolvent banks,
and the presentation to Congress of a package of fundamental financial sector
laws which, once approved, will provide Guatemala with a modern Central Bank
and a financial sector legal and regulatory framework up to international
standards.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from past banking sector operations in other countries in
Latin America have been taken into account in the design of this operation.
These include: (i) a strong borrower ownership is indispensable in complicated,
time-intensive, banking sector operations; (ii) banking sector operations
should set limited objectives, because over ambitious objectives may be beyond
a single operation; (iii) loan disbursements should be linked to the enactment
of major pieces of legislation and the completion of specific bank resolution
transactions; and (iv) the main implementing agency should be the main
recipient of the loan funds.
Poverty category
The measures supported by this operation would have important long-term
social implications as they would reduce the risk of a banking crisis, and
stimulate the expansion of prudent lending to the private sector, with the
associated benefits in terms of output growth and employment generation.
A banking system less vulnerable to crises will be better able to sustain
growth and, therefore, avoid poverty. Greater access to credit by small and
medium enterprises would create more job opportunities, an important objective
- 2-



in a country with a high level of disguised unemployment.
Environmental aspects
This operation would not have any direct effect on the environment. For that
reason, it has been placed in Category "C", in accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00 Annex A).
Program Objective Category. The Program Objective Category is Economic
Management (EA).
Contact Points
Mariluz Cortes
Lead Operations Officer
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Room I-5077
Tel (202) 473 0029
Fax (202) 522 2106
mcortes@worldbank.org
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 16,2001
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\November 23,2001\P074530.txt
November 15, 2001 3:31 PM
-3-



