                                      GUATEMALA

                           FinancialSector Adjustment Loan
                                    (Loan 7130-GU)
               Release of the Second Tranche    - Waiver of  One Condition
                               Tranche Release Document


1.      The US$l50 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)was approved by
the Board on June 25, 2002. The loan was declared effective on December 18, 2002 and
the first tranche was disbursed shortly thereafter. The closing date o f this loan has been
extended to December 31, 2005. This loan was designed to assist the Guatemalan
Government to implement its Financial Sector Reform Program, aimed at bringingabout
a stronger and better functioning banking sector, able to withstand external shocks and to
increase prudent lending to the private sector, opening access to groups and enterprises
today largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and small and medium
enterprise financing).  The Bank loan would finance the needs o f the Government's
economic program related to the strengthening o f the financial sector.

2.      The remainder of this memorandum summarizes progress in implementing the
reform Program, and reports on actions taken by the Guatemalan Government to meet
specific conditions for the release o f the Second Tranche o f the FSAL. Waiver for the
condition concerning the capitalization o f the Central Bank, as contained inparagraph 2
o f Schedule 3 o f the Loan Agreement, i s sought on the grounds that said condition has
been partially met as detailed in paragraphs 2land 22 o f this report. Based on the
assessment that the Ministry o f Finance, the Central Bank and the Superintendency o f
Bankshave met all other Second Tranche conditions, this memorandumrecommends that
a waiver be granted with respect to the pending condition and that the Second Tranche
(US$50 million) be released.

                                             2


I. KEYOBJECTIVESOFTHE GOVERNMENT'SFINANCIAL SECTOR
REFORMPROGRAM

3.      The broader policy objective of this proposed loan i s to assist the Guatemalan
Government to implement its Financial Sector Reform Program, aimed at bringing about
a stronger and better functioning banking sector, able to withstand external shocks and to
increase prudent lending to the private sector, opening access to groups and enterprises
that have been largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and SME financing).
The Bank loan helps finance the needs of the Government's economic programrelated to
the strengthening of the financial sector.

4.     Based on the results of the FSAP (Financial Sector Assessment Program)
conducted during the second half of 2000, the Guatemalan authorities, with assistance
from the Bank (as part of post-FSAP technical assistance provided by Bank staff), the
IMFandthe IDB,embarked on afinancial sector reformprogramaimedat addressingthe
sector's problems ina comprehensive manner. The reform programinvolves:

    (A) Financial Sector Legal/Regulatory Reforms: The program includes: (i)       reform
        of the monetary policy legal framework for the conduct of monetary and
        financial policy; (ii) of the financial sector legal framework aimed at:
                              reform
        strengthening the regulation of financial groups and creating an orderly market
        exit mechanism, enhancing credit risk management, and increasing access to
        financing; (iii)reform of bank supervision legal framework aimed at
        strengthening the autonomy of the supervisory authorities, enhancing their legal
        and institutional capacity to supervise financial groups, and rising banking sector
        regulation towards international standards; (iv) stronger legislation to prevent
        money laundering so as to reduce illegal activities and comply with international
        norms; and (v) presentation to Congress of new legislation on insurance, secured
        transactions, and non-bank financial intermediaries, with the objective of
        expanding credit access.

   (B) Bank Regularization/ConsolidationProgram: This part of the programconsists
        o f (i)the establishment of a mechanism to handle consolidation and
        recapitalization of banks; (ii) regularization or liquidation of several insolvent
        banks; and (iii)consolidation of the banking system through mergers and
        acquisitions.

   (C) Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks (SB) and the Central Bank
        (BANGUAT). This part of the reform program consist of securing technical
        assistance to help both institutions to implement the program of legal and
        regulatory reforms andthe bank regularizatiodconsolidation program.

11.      PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL
SECTOR REFORMPROGRAM

5.       The Guatemalan Government has made major advances in the implementationof
its financial sector reform program, including measures implemented prior to Board
Presentation incompliance with the FirstTranche Releaseof the loan.

(A)LegalandRegulatoryReformsto Strengthenthe FinancialSector

6.      Between October 2001 and April 2002, prior to Board presentation of loan,
Congress approved a package of five financial sector laws. These laws were prepared
with technical advice from the Bank, IDB and IMF. The new laws have given Guatemala
a state of the art financial sector legal framework. Four of the laws were enacted on June
1,2002.

7.      CentralBank Law. This Law addressesmost of the shortcomings of the previous
legislation, including the following:

        Clear statement of objectives. It establishes that the fundamental objective of the
        central bank i s to achieve and maintain price stability and redefines the
        instruments of monetary policy as a function of this objective (open market
        operations, exchange operations and lender of last resort--LOLR--operations).

        Greater autonomy. The law reaffirms the role of the Monetary Board (MB) to
        determine the monetary, credit and exchange rate policy of Guatemala, but
        delegate to BANGUAT the capacity to implement such policies through an
        Implementation Committee.         It also establishes that the President and Vice-
        president of BANGUATwould be nominatedby the President of the Republic for
        a period of four years and stipulates the basic qualifications for these positions
        andthe causes for their removal.

        Greaterfinancial au$onomy. The law establishes that the State will guarantee the
        maintenance over time of BANGUAT's capital to strengthen its capacity to
        implement monetary policy. It also establishes that the central bank will transfer
        its eventual surpluses to the Treasury, after making the reserve provisions
        established by law, and that the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will absorb the
        accumulated losses sufferedby BANGUATas a result of Government policies.

        Greater transparency and accountability.          The law includes a number of
       provisions concerning transparency and accountability, including: (i)  the financial
       statements of BANGUAT have to comply with internationally accepted norms
       and principles, and be audited by external auditors; (ii)the President of
       BANGUAT will appear before Congress twice a year to give account of the
       results of the monetary, exchange rate, and credit policies; and (iii) BANGUAT
       will periodically publish information of its activities, general balance and

                                            4


       financial statements, as well as summaries of the debates of the MB with respect
       to the determination of monetary, exchange rate and credit policies.

       Limited Lender of Last Resort (LOLR) assistance. The new law specifies that
       BANGUAT will be able to provide short term credit to banks inthe system solely
       to cover temporary liquidity deficiencies up to 50 percent of the bank's
       computable equity, at an interest rate no lower than the average lending rate
       applied by the petitioner bank. The law prohibits BANGUAT from engaging in
       other activities including lendingor providing guarantees to the State.

8.     Monetary Law. This Law modernizes the monetary legislation, particularly inthe
area of exchange rate policy. The new law guarantees the free convertibility of the
currency, and the free movement of capital.

9.    Banking and Financial GroupsLaw. This law has the following main features:

      Improved bank licensing provisions. The law establishes the minimum entry
       requirements for new banks and provides the SB with the authority to deny the
      participation of promoters, shareholders or administrators who have any
      impediment under the law. It also establishes the prohibition that entities not
       subject to SB supervision mobilize resources from the public, except savings and
      loan cooperatives which are ruledby specific laws.

       Consolidated supervision and regulation of financial groups, including ofS-shore
      banking.      The law includes norms for the constitution, organization and
      functioning of financial groups.     It gives the SB the faculty to presume the
      existence of a financial group if there are common interests among its members
      and empowers it to carry out consolidated supervision of all the enterprises of a
      financial group to evaluate and control the risks faced by the group as a whole.
      The law requires the elaboration and presentation of consolidated financial
      statements by the financial groups and establishes lendinglimits to related parties.

      Equal treatment of ofS-shore banks. The law establishes the treatment given to
      off-shore entities (which are licensed in a foreign country but have their assets
      and liabilities in Guatemala) that form part of a financial group, in order to
      measure the risks of the group. Off-shore entities have to obtain authorization to
      operate within six months of the effectiveness of the law.

      Improved bank regulatory framework and prudential rules. The law establishes
      the minimum capital of banks and financial groups as 10 percent of the risk-
      weighted assets, with the weights to be applied established by regulation, and
      requires the adoption of regularization plans in cases of capital deficiencies. The
      law also mandates the application of accounting norms issued by the MB based
      on generally accepted accounting principles and international accounting norms.

                                             5


       Improved governance and transparency of banking institutions.             The law
       establishes rights and duties of the banks' and groups' management councils and
       the maintenance of systems of internal controls. It empowers the SB to determine
       minimumrequirements and scope of the external audit and provides disclosure of
       information guidelines.

       Limited deposit insurance scheme. The law creates a deposit insurance fund
       (Fondo de Proteccidn al Ahorro, FOPA) administered by BANGUAT, to
       guarantee the safety of bank deposits, up to 420,000 (US$2,600) per individualor
       entity in a local bank or subsidiary of a foreign bank. Deposits in off-shore
       entities are not guaranteed. It is constituted by: quotas paid by participating
       banks, return on investments of the fund, proceeds from liquidation of banks and
       sale of adjudicated assets, and Government contributions.

       EfJicient bank resolution mechanism. The law establishes mechanisms for bank
       restructuring and market exit of insolvent institutions.         These go from a
       regularization plan (in case of capital deficiency) proposed by the bank and
       approved by the SB, to suspension of operations, exclusion of assets and
       liabilities, and liquidation.

10.   Money Laundering Law.          This law makes money laundering a crime and
provides for appropriate sanctions.     It also creates a Specific Unit Against Money
Launderingwithin the SB ("Intendencia de Verificaci6n Especial").

11.   Bank SupervisionLaw. This law has the following main features:

      Enhanced supervisory and sanctioning power. The law specifies the functions of
      the SB, which include, among others, to: enforce the laws and regulations;
      supervise the financial entities to ensure that they maintain adequate liquidity and
      solvency; provide instructions to overcome deficiencies; impose sanctions; have
      access to all relevant information; carry out its supervision and inspection on a
      consolidated basis; evaluate the policies, procedures, norms and systems of the
      entities; and request from the MB the liquidation of failed entities.

      Greater autonomy. The law provides for the Superintendent to be nominated by
      the President of the Republic for a four year term.         It also establishes the
      eligibility requirements and impediments for exercising the position and the
      causes for his removal.

      Legal protection of SB stafl      The law establishes that the SB will provide a
      mechanism to finance the legal expenses for the defense of its functionaries in
      case of legal actions against them derived from the exercise of their functions, and
      provides personal immunity to the Superintendent of Banks and authorities of the
      institution.

                                              6



(B)Bank Regularization/ConsolidationProgram

 12.     Prior to loan approval, the authorities intervened and suspended the equity and
administrative rights of the shareholders of three small failed banks: Promotor,
Metropolitan0 and Empresarial, and two financieras: Financiera Agrocomercial and
Financiera Metropolitana.       The authorities fully reimbursed the depositors of the
intervened banks through a contingency credit line extended by BANGUAT. All three
banks are under liquidation procedures.

 13.     Creation of the Bank Capitalization Fund. The new banking legislation limits
the ability of BANGUAT to provide funds to capitalize, restructure or close distressed
banks. Instead, it establishes a bank resolutionmechanism that involves the exclusionof
assets and liabilities of a failed bank, and their transfer to other institutions. A solvent
bank that acquires the liabilities (deposits) may find that it needs additional capital to
meet the regulatory capital standards. A Bank Capitalization Fund (FCB) has been
created to provide these banks with capital in the form of subordinated loans (tier-two
capital). The FCB was created as a trust fund managed by BANGUAT, in the same law
that approved the Bank FSAL.

(C)Strengtheningof the SB and BANGUAT

14.     Together with the FSAL, the Board approved a US$5.0 million technical
assistance loan (FSTAL) to assist BANGUAT and the SB to implement the new financial
legislation, and prepare future legal reforms.

111.    ACTIONS TAKEN TO FULFILL THE SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
CONDITIONS

A.      SatisfactoryProgressincarryingout the Program

      LoanAgreement, Article 11, Section2.02 (d) (i): Bank to be satisfied, basedon
      evidence satisfactory to the Bank, with the progress achieved in the carrying
      out of the Program.

15.     This conditionhas been met. A letter of Sector Development Policy, signed by
the Minister of Finance dated May 20, 2002, describes the Program supported by Loan
7130-GU.      The Bank i s satisfied that the Borrower has complied with these
commitments, which include: the passage of key financial laws; the issuingof regulations
to   implement      these   laws;   and    the   initial  implementation       of  a  bank
regularizationkonsolidation program.

                                              7


 B.      Macroeconomic Performance

        Loan Agreement, Article 11,Section 2.02 (d) (ii):Bank to be satisfied, based on
        evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that the macroeconomic policy framework is
        satisfactory.

 16.     This condition has been met.         The last Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) of
 Guatemala with the IMF (for SDR84 million), covered the period June 18, 2003, to
March 15, 2004. The program supported by the agreement was designed to consolidate
 the macroeconomic stability and accommodate additional government spending related to
the Peace Accord, including an increase in expending in social services, while increasing
international reserves and further lowering inflation.       The program was completed
 successfully. Although Guatemala does not have at the moment a program with the IMF,
there has been progress toward agreement on an economic program that could be
 supported by a new SBA. The new SBA could be presented to the Board in early
December and would support the authorities' program to maintain macroeconomic
 stability, keep the public debt low, while providing for higher social and investment
spending, continue financial sector reforms, and foster strong and sustainable economic
growth.

 17.     The new administration that took office in January 2004, faced a deteriorating
fiscal situation, aggravated by the elimination of the tax on sales of assets (IEMA), which
had been declared unconstitutional in December 2003. The new Government has acted
swiftly to address the fiscal situation.    It instituted budgetary cuts except for social
expenditures, and secured Congressional support for a short-term tax package which was
approved in June 2004. The tax package incorporates changes to the corporate income
tax, a 6 to 8 percent tax on alcoholic drinks, an extraordinary and temporary tax in
support of the Pace Agreement; and the authorization for a 45.3 billion (US$671 million)
treasury bond issue. Two major objectives of the tax reform are to keep the budget
deficit within the 2 percent of GDP target, and increase the tax ratio to 12 percent of
GDP, as required by the Peace Agreement.           In mid-August 2004, the Government
announced an Economic Reactivation Plan that includes actions to: (i)           improve the
climate for business and exports; (ii) set out a series of publidprivate investment projects
in infrastructure, tourism, and construction; and (iii)increase investment in poor
communities on health, education, basic services andjob creation.

18.      The Central Bank estimates a real GDP growth rate of 2.6 percent in 2004, up
from 2.1 percent in 2003.      This growth rate is slightly higher than the 2.4 percent
population growth.    Inflation for 2004 i s estimated at 7 percent, compared with 5.8
percent in 2003. Projections for 2005 are for a real GDP growth of 3.2 percent, with
inflation of about 5 percent. Guatemala's financial sector has strengthened substantially
since 2000, due to improvements in prudential regulatory framework and stepped-up
onsite inspections. As of end-April 2004, the risk-weighted capital adequacy was well
above the regulatory level of 10percent (14.8 percent for onshore banks and 12.8 percent
for offshore banks). The situation of the banks i s still fragile due to the low level of
provisions and excessive amount of related lending. However, the authorities have made

                                             8


progress in the licensing, supervision and registration of financial conglomerates,
including offshore banks which are now required to be part of licensed conglomerates in
 order to operate. All these positive outcomes are linked to actions supported by the
FSAL.

 C.     Other Actions

      Loan Agreement, Article 11, Section 2.02 (d) (iii):     Bank to be satisfied, based
       on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that the actions described in Schedule 3
      of the Loan Agreement have beentaken inform and substance satisfactory to
      the Bank:

               Schedule 3, Part (1)of the LoanAgreement: Enactment of regulations
               (reglamentos)of BANGUAT's organic law (Ley Orghnicadel Banco de
               Guatemala), dated June 2,2002, which regulations should address the
               following topics: (i)governance of BANGUAT; and (ii)                reserve
               requirement rules.

 19.    This condition has been met. Regulations issued addressing the governance of
BANGUAT include the following resolutions: (i)       JM-189-2002 "Determination of the
periodicity of the ordinary sessions of the Monetary Board";            (ii)JM-192-2002
"Designation of the authorities of BANGUAT to integrate the Execution Committee and
designation of technical advisors"; (iii)   JM-193-2002 "Regulation of the Execution
Committee"; and (iv) JM-305-2002 "Administrative Structure of BANGUAT".

20.     The regulationissued addressing reserve requirement rules is ResolutionJM-177-
2002 "Regulation of Bank Reserve Requirement" and its modification: Resolution JM-
244-2002.

               Schedule 3, Part (2) of the Loan Agreement: Capitalization of
               BANGUAT has been completed though the issuing of bonds to settle
               pastfiscal losses.

21.     This condition has been partially met. Article 83 of the Central Bank Law
establishes that the equity of BANGUAT will be restored through the issuing of a 100
year zero-coupon bond to settle its fiscal losses due to the cost of the monetary policies
up to end 2001. As requiredby the Law, an audit was conducted which determined that
the debt to BANGUAT amounted to Q16,873 million. The MB through resolution JM-
287-2002 issued a favorable opinion to the issuing of the bond to settle this debt, and the
MOF requested Congressional authority to issue the bond. Congress refused to approve
such bond, even if it did not involve any real financial cost to the Govemment. The new
Government intends to re-introduce the bill to the new Congress which, they argue, i s
more inclined to approve the issuing of the bond. However, there i s no definite time
frame for this.

                                                 9


22.     We consider this condition as partially met because the expected effect of the
recognition of the old debt to BANGUAT has already taken place. On this basis, the
Board i s requested to waive this condition. The issuing of the long term bond was an
accounting device to avoid showing that BANGUAThad a negative capital. With the recognition
of the debt, the accounts of BANGUAT have ceased to show the "old debt" as accumulated
losses. They show instead a (differed) long-term asset (debt to be paid by the MOF). The most
important issue i s that the new losses after-2002be compensated with performing bonds, which i s
a condition for thirdtranche disbursement.


                 Schedule 3, Part (3) of the Loan Agreement: Enactment of new
                 regulations (reglamentos)to strengthen the financial paymentssystem,
                 which regulations shall include a clear definition of BANGUAT's
                 responsibilities, risk managementrules, and enhancedefficiency.

23.     This condition has been met. BANGUAT through Management Agreement 6-
2002 of August 2, 2002, created the Payments System Committee, in charge of the
coordination and follow up of the implementation of the of the project for the
Modernization of the National Payments System, Resolution JM-303-2002 approved the
restructuring of BANGUAT, including, among others, the creation of the Payments
System Section. Resolution JM-51-2003 of April 23, 2003, approved the regulation of
the Chamber of Bank Compensation within BANGUAT, which includes, as an annex, the
Instructions for the Standardization of Checks inthe NationalBanking System.

                Schedule 3, Part (4) of the Loan Agreement: Enactment of regulations
                 (reglamentos) of the Borrower's banking law (Ley de Bancos y Grupos
                Financieros, dated June 2, 2002), which regulations should
                comprehensively cover the following topics: (i)             entry rules; (ii)
                minimumrisk management arrangements and governance principles
                to be adopted by banks; (iii) adequacy, loan classification and
                                                   capital
                provisioning, and remaining prudential rules; (iv) accounting norms,
                including consolidation rules following international standards; (v)
                exit mechanisms including the procedures related to FOPA; and (vi)
                sanction rules.

24.    This condition has beenmet.


       (i)      Rulesfor entry of new institutions in the banking system: Resolution JM-
                185-2002, "Regulation for the authorization, constitution, and merger of
                national private banks and the establishment of branches of foreign banks''
                was replaced by Resolution JM-78-2003, "Regulation for the Constitution
                of National Private Banks and the Establishment of Branches of Foreign
                Banks", and Resolution JM-90-2003, "Regulation for the Authorization of
                Merger of Banking Entities, the Acquisition of Shares of one Banking
                Entity by Another of Similar Nature and the Cession of a Substantial
                Share of the BaIance of a Banking Entity".

                                          10


            Minimum risk managementarrangements and governanceprinciples to be
            adopted by banks: Circular No. 1216-2003 of April 20, 2003, contains the
            "Dispositions for the Verification of Policies and Risk Committees".
            Resolution JM-141-2003, "Regulation for the Administration of Credit
            Risk", which includes minimumnorms for the credit process.

             Capital adequacy, loan classijication and provisioning, and remaining
            prudential rules:   Resolutions issued: (i) JM-46-2004, "Regulation for the
            determination of the minimum equity required for the exposure to the risks
            applicable to banks and financial institutions".             JM-182-2002,
            "Regulation for financial operations with related persons or persons that
            are part of a risk unit". JM-183-2002, "Regulation for the valuation of
            credit assets and norms to determine and classify those of doubtful
            recovery" which was replaced by JM-141-2003, "Regulation for the
            Administration of Credit Risk" and includes norms for the valuation of
            credit assets and the minimum information of debtors.          JM-54-2004,
            "Regulation about the capital adequacy for off-shore entities, stock
            exchanges, enterprises specialized in financial services, warehouses, and
            foreign exchange offices, which are part of a financial group".

            Accounting noms, including consolidation rules following international
            standards. Norm for the Consolidation of Financial Statements was
            approved by the SB inAgreement 13-2004.

            Exit mechanisms, including theprocedures related to FOPA. Resolutions
            issued: JM-187-2002, "Dispositions and Regulations for the Fondo Para la
            Protecci6n del Ahorro FOPA"; and JM-223-2002,         "  Regulation of the
            Junta de Exclusi6nde Activos y Pasivos".

            Sanctions Noms: Resolutions issued: JM-186-2002, "Regulation for the
            application of the sanctions contemplated inArt. 99 of Decree No.19-2002
            of the Congress of the Republic; Law of Banks and Financial Groups";
            and Agreement of the SB No.43-2002, "Sanctions Regime for obliged
            persons defined inthe Law Against Money Laundering".

           Schedule 3, Part (5) of the LoanAgreement: Evidencethat FOPA: (i)
           i s fully operational and premiums are being paid by banks; and (ii)
           has adequate funding to reimburse depositors of banks under
           liquidation.

25.  This conditionhas beenmet.


   (i)  FOPA isfully operational and premiums are being paid by banks Resolution
        issued JM-187-2002, "Regulations for the Fondo Para la Protecci6n del

        Ahorro". BANGUAThas submitted to the Bank a certification indicating that
        as of October 26, 2004, all the banks in the system are paying their monthly
        premiums to FOPA.


   (ii) FOPA has adequatefunds to reimburse depositors of banks under liquidation:
        As of May 31, 2004, the equity of FOPA amounted to 41,127.2 million, of
        which 4597.0 million are in US dollars (US75.5 million), from the proceeds
        of the first tranche of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.

            Schedule 3, Part (6) of the Loan Agreement: Enactment of regulations
            (reglamentos) of the Borrower's banking supervision law (Ley de
            Supervision Financiera, dated June 2, 2002, which regulations should
            address the following topics: (i)    minimum requirements for external
            audits; and (ii) SBlabor relationsframework.

26.  This condition hasbeen met.


     (i)    Minimum requirement for external audit: The minimum requirement was
            issued with Agreement No. 56-2002 of the SB "Contracting and scope of
            the external audits" and resolutions: JM-26-2003, "Regulation for the
            registration of external auditors"      and JM-26-2003, "Regulation of
            minimumrequirements that have to be incorporatedin the contracting of
            external auditors of specialized enterprises when they form part of a
            financial group".

     (ii) SB labor relations framework: Resolution JM-195-2002, "Internal
            regulation of labor relations between the Superintendency of Banks and its
            employees".

            Schedule 3, Part (7) of the Loan Agreement: Evidence that the SB
           action plan agreed with the Bank for the application the Borrower's
           new financial legal framework has met following benchmarks: (i)      risk
           management committees are in place for all of the banks of the
           Borrower's system; and (ii) management manuals have been
                                              risk
           adopted by all the banks of the Borrower's banking system, and
           furtherverified by SB.

27.  This condition hasbeenmet.

   (9   Risk management committees are in place for all of the banks of the
        Borrower's system:        Circular 1216-2003 was issued concerning risk
        management including the establishment of risk management committees.
        Compliance of all the banks in the system has been verified as indicated in
       reports issued by the SB: 3601-2003 and 694-2004.

                                            12


     (ii)   Risk management manuals have been adopted by all the banks of the
            Borrower's banking system, andfurther verified by SB: Circular 1216-2003
            establishes that among the aspects to be verified by the SB is that the policies
            and procedures for risk management shall be part of a risk manual. Banks
            were given up to June 15, 2004 to present their credit manuals to the SB. The
            SB presented to the Bank areport dated July 6,2004, signed by the Intendente
            of Studies and Systems, stating that all the banks in the system had submitted
            their risk management manuals to the SB.

                Schedule 3, Part (8) of the Loan Agreement: Satisfactory progress has
                been made in carrying SB's program of in situ supervisions of the
                Borrower's national.

28.      This condition has been met. As of December 31, 2002, the SB completed the
Valuation of Credit Assets in almost all the banks in the system, in accordance to Art. 53
of the Banking Law. Reports have been given to all the banks in the system, except two
entities, and the results have been discussed with the affected entities, which have taken
actions to reduce their risks andor strengthen their patrimony. The SB has presented to
the Bank a certification signedby the Superintendent of Banks, dated October 25, 2004,
indicatingthat the SB i s in a secondphase of review of the credit portfolio and provisions
of the affected banks, with satisfactory results that are recorded in the SB report of each
bank.

                Schedule 3, Part (9) of the Loan Agreement: Evidence that
                supervision procedures and related necessary tools to implement the
                Borrower's money laundering law (Ley Contra el Luvado de Diner0           IC
                OtrosActivos, dated December 17,2001) are being applied.

29.     This condition has been met. In April 2002, the regulation of the Money
Laundering Law was issued: Government Agreement No. 118-2002 of the President of
the Republic, In accordance to Art. 32 of the Law, Congressional Decree No. 67-2001
was issued creating within the SB the Intendencia de Verificacio'n Especial (IVE), which
i s the Analysis Unit for money laundering in Guatemala. WE i s fully operational and the
GAFI (Review Group for the Americas) has indicated that Guatemala meets all 25
qualification criteria.

                Schedule 3, Part (10) of the LoanAgreement: The Borrower has taken
                irrevocable actions to initiate either merger, full regularization, full
                capitalization or liquidation of two selected undercapitalized banks of
               the Borrower's bankingsystem, as agreed with the Bank.

30.     This condition has been met. The Government capitalized Banco Hipotecario
Nacional (CHN) with QlOO million to allow it to absorb Banco del Ejkrcito (Resolution
JM-288-2002). Afterwards, the Government capitalized C H N with 4193.9 million to
allow the merger of CHN and Banco del Nororiente (BANORO) - (Resolution JM-34-

                                            13


2003). The Government has agreed with the IMF to conduct a strategic diagnostic of
CHN.

               Schedule 3, Part (11) of the Loan Agreement: Evidence that FFCB is
               fully operational, its Operating Principles and Procedures have been
               made effective, and a coordination unit for its operation has been
               created and is adequately staffed.

31.     This condition has been met. The FFCB (renamed FCB) was created by
Congressional Decree No. 74-2002.          On December 23, 2003 the ESCRITURA
CONSTITUTNA of the fund was signed; and on February 23, 2004, the fund's
Technical Committee staff was nominated by the MOF and BANGUAT. The operating
principles and procedures of the FCB have been prepared with the assistance of external
consultants, funded by the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan.        Staff of
BANGUATand SB involvedinthe operation of the FCB has been trained by the external
consultants.  The operating principles and procedures, approved by the Technical
Committee were approved by the MOF through ministerial agreement No. 51-2004 of
October 4, 2004.


IV     CONCLUSION

32.    All the conditions required under the Loan Agreement for the release of this
Second Tranche, except for the condition for which a waiver i s being requested, have
been met.   Subject to the no-objection of the Board, management will inform the
Borrower of the availability of the Second Tranche for disbursement.

