Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7130-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Adjustment Loan) 
 
between the 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 13, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7130-GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 2002, between the REPUBLIC OF 
GUATEMALA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated May 20, 
2002, describing: (i) its macroeconomic framework; and (ii) the objectives and policies of 
its financial sector reform program which consists of actions designed to improve the 
Borrower’s banking sector, strengthen banking regulation, supervision and inspection, 
and modernize the legal framework for the Borrower’s financial sector (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(c) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(e) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “BANGUAT” 
means 
Banco de Guatemala
,
the Borrower’s Central 
Bank; 
 
(b) 
“Bridge Deposit Account” means the deposit account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (a) of, and elsewhere in, this Agreement; 
 
(c) “FFCB” 
means 
Fondo Fiduciario de Capitalización Bancaria
,
a
trust 
fund to be established within, and administered by, BANGUAT pursuant to Section 5.01 
(b); 
 
(d) 
“FFCB” Operating Principles and Procedures” means the operating 
principles and procedures of FFCB as approved by the Bank; 
 
(e) 
“First Tranche” means the portion of the Loan not exceeding 
$50,000,000 to be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date; 
 
(f) “FOPA” 
means 
Fondo para la Protección del Ahorro
 the Recipient’s 
Deposit Insurance Fund created by Congressional Decree No.19-2002; 
 
(g) 
“Floating Tranche A” means the portion of the Loan not exceeding 
$50,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or 
referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“Floating Tranche B” means the portion of the Loan not exceeding 
$50,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or 
referred to in Section 2.02. (e) of this Agreement; and 
 
(i) 
“SB” means “
Superintendencia de Bancos
”
the Borrower’s 
Superintendency of Banks. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Except with respect to the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the deposit 
account. The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the deposit account. 
 
(b) 
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account 
in support of the Program. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the deposit account an amount 
equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be credited to 
the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Floating Tranche A unless, the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled and, 
within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof. 
 
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Floating Tranche B unless, the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled and, 
within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
$1,500,000.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, the interest rate basis applicable to 
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate is equal to 
$50,000,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and 
of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(d) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
Page  7
-
6
-
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 and Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 and Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Sectio
n
3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the deposit account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the deposit 
account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after 
disbursement of the First Tranche of the Loan proceeds, disburse to FOPA funds in local 
currency equivalent to the respective amount of such disbursement (except that funds in 
local currency equivalent to the amount disbursed by the Bank to itself pursuant to 
Section 2.04. of this Agreement need not be so disbursed by the Borrower to FOPA). 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.04 (a) The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after 
disbursement of the Floating Tranche A of the Loan proceeds, disburse to FOPA funds in 
local currency equivalent to half of the amount disbursed under Floating Tranche A. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after disbursement of 
the Floating Tranche A of the Loan proceeds, disburse to FFCB funds in local currency 
equivalent to half of the amount disbursed under Floating Tranche A. 
 
Section 3.05  The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after 
disbursement of the Floating Tranche B of the Loan proceeds, disburse to FFCB funds in 
local currency equivalent to the respective amount of such disbursement. 
 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall cause FFCB: 
 
(a) 
only to finance transfers in accordance with the provisions of FFCB 
Operating Principles and Procedures; 
 
(b) 
to consult with the Bank prior to financing any transaction that would 
require any exception to FFCB Operating Principles and Procedures (in accordance with 
the provisions thereof) in order to obtain the Bank's opinion on whether the transaction 
would undermine the achievement of the objectives of the Program; and 
 
(c) 
promptly after it makes any loan, to forward to the Bank all such 
information about the loan and the transaction financed by it as the Bank may reasonably 
require. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to 
the Bank; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
the FFCB has been created. 
 
Section 5.02. The date March 13, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
 
Ministerio de Fin
anzas Públicas 
 
8ª
Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Zona 1, 
 
Guatemala, Guatemala 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(502) 230-0333 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By  /s/ Eduardo Weymann  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
Page  12
-
11 -
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2008 
 
through February 15, 2018 
 
 
4.55% 
 
On August 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
4.45% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
Page  14
-
13 -
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
1. Enactment 
of 
regulations 
(
reglamentos
)
of
BANGUAT’s organic law (
Ley 
Organica del Banco de Guatemala
,
dated June 2, 2002), which regulations should 
address the following topics: (i) governance of BANGUAT; and (ii) reserve requirement 
rules. 
 
2. 
Capitalization of BANGUAT has been completed through the issuing of bonds to 
settle past fiscal losses. 
 
3. 
Enactment of new regulations (
reglamentos
)
to strengthen the financial payments 
system, which regulations shall include a clear definition of BANGUAT’s 
responsibilities, risk management rules, and enhanced efficiency. 
 
4. 
Enactment of regulations (
reglamentos
)
of
the Borrower’s banking law (
Ley de 
Bancos y Grupos Financieros
,
dated June 2, 2002), which regulations should 
comprehensively cover the following topics: (i) entry rules; (ii) minimum risk 
management arrangements and governance principles to be adopted by banks; (iii) capital 
adequacy, loan classification and provisioning, and remaining prudential rules; (iv) 
accounting norms, including consolidation rules following international standards; (v) 
exit mechanisms including the procedures related to FOPA; and (vi) sanction rules. 
 
5. 
Evidence that FOPA: (i) is fully operational and premiums are being paid by 
banks; and (ii) has adequate funding to reimburse depositors of banks under liquidation. 
 
6. Enactment 
of 
regulations 
(
reglamentos
)
of
the Borrower’s banking supervision 
law (
Ley de Supervision Financiera
,
dated June 2, 2002), which regulations should 
address the following topics: (i) minimum requirements for external audits; and (ii) SB 
labor relations framework. 
 
7. 
Evidence that the SB action plan, agreed with the Bank, for the application of the 
Borrower’s new financial legal framework has met the following benchmarks: (i) risk 
management committees are in place for all of the banks of the Borrower’s system; and 
(ii) risk management manuals have been adopted by all the banks of the Borrower’s 
banking system, and further verified by SB. 
 
8. 
Satisfactory progress has been made in carrying SB’s program of 
in situ
 
supervisions of the Borrower’s national banks. 
 
9. 
Evidence that supervision procedures and related necessary tools to implement 
the Borrower’s money laundering law (
Ley Contra el Lavado de Dinero u Otros Activos
,
dated December 17, 2001) are being applied. 
 
Page  16
-
15 -
10. 
The Borrower has taken irrevocable actions to initiate either merger, full 
regularization, full capitalization or liquidation of two selected undercapitalized banks of 
the Borrower’s banking system, as agreed with the Bank. 
 
11. 
Evidence that FFCB is fully operational, its Operating Principles and Procedures 
have been made effective, and a coordination unit for its operation has been created and 
is adequately staffed. 
Page  17
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement 
 
1. 
Evidence that the mechanism desc
ribed in BANGUAT’s organic law for the 
transfer of BANGUAT’s annual deficits and surpluses has been included in the 
Borrower’s proposed national budget for the year 2004. 
 
2. 
The following new financial legislation has been submitted to the Borrower’s 
Congress for approval: (i) non-banking financial intermediaries law; (ii) insurance law; 
and (iii) secured transaction law. 
 
3. 
Evidence that a new credit information system within SB has been created, is 
fully operational, and its statutory rules governing its operation, as agreed with the Bank, 
are in place. 
 
4. 
Evidence that the SB action plan agreed with the Bank for the application of the 
Borrower’s new financial legal framework has met the following benchmarks: (i) all 
banks are complying with the risk-based capital; (ii) all banks have been supervised (on-
and off-site) in accordance with the provisions of the new financial legal framework; (iii) 
sanctions are being applied to banks which are not complying with the provisions of the 
new financial legal framework; (iv) at least seven (7) financial groups have been rated by 
SB and have had at least one complete inspection applying consolidated supervision 
principles; (v) at least seven (7) off-shore banks (as defined in the Borrower’s banking 
law dated, June 2, 2002) have been rated by SB or have stopped operating in the 
Borrower’s territory or have been summoned for illegal operation; (vi) an accounting 
manual for bank operations adopting the international accounting standards has been 
approved by the Borrower’s monetary board; (vii) all banks and finance companies in the 
system have adopted and are utilizing the new accounting norms; and (viii) a register for 
external auditors is operating within SB. 
 
5. 
Satisfactory progress has been made in carrying out a comprehensive 
examination of the Borrower’s banking sector on a consolidated basis, including off-
shore entities, in accordance with the new Banking law. 
 
6. 
Evidence that FFCB has completed bank resolution transactions (liquidations, 
mergers/acquisitions and recapitalizations) requiring additional capital in an amount of at 
least $25 million, including stake holder contributions. 
 
7. 
Evidence that FFCB continues to operate in accordance with its Operating 
Principles and Procedures. 
 
8. 
Evidence that annual financial audits reviewing FFCB operations are being 
carried out. 
 
Page  18
-
17 -
9. 
Evidence that the Borrower is taking measures to contribute additional funds to 
FFCB to cover eventual shortfalls in funds (as determined by BANGUAT with SB’s 
assistance) to carry out the Bank resolution transactions. 
 
